DRN-2561680
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as P have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance
claim.
Mr L, a director of P, has brought the complaint to us on Ps behalf.
What happened
P held a business interruption insurance policy with NFU. They claimed on their policy after
they were impacted by the Governments response to Covid-19. 
NFU initially indicated that there might be cover under the endorsement for Action of a 
Competent Authority - Prevention of Access. However, it later turned down Ps claim 
because it said P hadnt closed due to an incident within the immediate vicinity or within one 
mile of their premises, so the endorsement didnt apply. NFU also said, while the policy 
provided cover for specified diseases under the extension for Human Diseases, Covid-19 
wasnt one of the diseases on that list. 
Unhappy with NFUs response, P brought their complaint to our service. They thought they 
should be covered as access to the property had been prevented or hindered.
While we were looking into Ps complaint NFU said P hadnt purchased the extension that 
provides cover for human diseases. 
Our investigator looked into Ps complaint and thought NFU had fairly said the claim wasnt
covered under the terms of the policy, as Ps closure wasnt due to an incident within the
immediate vicinity or one mile of their premises. He said Ps policy didnt include the 
extension for human disease, but even if it had, the extension wouldnt have provided cover 
as Covid-19 wasnt on the list of diseases specified within the policy. 
P asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said theyd been required to close by the
Government so thought NFU should pay their claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on P. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFU has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ps claim.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Ps claim wouldnt have been covered under the 
extension for Human Disease even if the extension had been part of the policy. So, Im 
going to focus my decision on the endorsement on the Policy Schedule for Action of a 
Competent Authority - Prevention of Access as this is the part of the policy that P think 
should provide cover. This states:
Action of Competent Authority - Prevention of Access
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from an incident in the immediate
vicinity or within a one mile radius of the PREMISES where access is hindered or
prevented by the action of any civil or statutory authority or by order of
the government or any public authority for more than 24 consecutive hours.
When reaching a fair and reasonable decision, Im required to take account of the law. I think
the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case - which started in the High Court and proceeded, 
on appeal, to the Supreme Court - is relevant to Ps complaint. The High Court considered a 
similar term to that within Ps policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed.
Paragraph 405 of the judgment says:
it is a misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of
the clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident
occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises. It may amount to a
state of affairs but it is too geographically dispersed, variegated, prolonged and
non-specific to amount to an incident. Saying that the pandemic is everywhere
does not mean that it is present at particular insured premises and certainly does
not mean that it amounts to an incident occurring within a one mile radius of
the insured premises  it is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in
the radius with the disease as an incident for the purposes of the clause.
Paragraphs 406 to 407 of the judgment say:
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or
incidents which occur within the one mile radius. The localised nature of the
cover is even more marked in the case of the alternative wording requiring the
incident to occur in the vicinity of the insured premises
It follows that there is no cover under [this type of] clause in respect of business
interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed by the government in
response to the national pandemic.
I see no reason to depart from the judgment as I think the endorsement in Ps policy was 
intended to relate to incidents that were limited to the immediate vicinity or within a one-mile 
radius of an insureds premises. The Governments response to the national pandemic, 
which caused Ps closure, was not in response to a localised incident. As such, I dont think 
the endorsement provides cover for Ps claim.
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr L, but I dont think I can fairly
require NFU to pay Ps claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman