Complaint
Mr H says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Mr H took out with Lending Stream. A copy of 
Mr Hs borrowing history is set out on the table below.
Loan Date Take
nDate Re
paid Instalments Amount Repaym
ent
103/06/2012 27/07/2012  6 £400.00 £200.00
209/03/2015 15/06/2015  6 £410.00 £157.98
305/05/2015 15/06/2015   6 £340.00 £299.76
418/10/2016sold to third 
party 6 £350.00 £154.00
526/10/2016 "  6 £170.00 £228.80
609/11/2016 "  6 £250.00 £338.80
There was a long gap between the time Mr H repaid loan 1 and took out Loan 2. He 
borrowed Loan 3 while he was still repaying Loan 2 so there was an overlap in repayments. 
Then there was another gap of around 16 months between repaying Loans 2 and 3 and 
taking out Loan 4. Each of Mr Hs subsequent Loans (5 and 6) overlapped with each other. 
Mr H fell into difficulty in repaying Loans 4, 5 and 6 and after some time a payment 
arrangement was agreed These loans have not been repaid and I understand they have 
been transferred to a third party. 
Mr H complained to Lending Stream. He said, referring to Loans 4, 5 and 6 that he had 
taken up three loans within a period of a month - this quick uptake should have flagged with 
Lending Streams systems to highlight a potential issue. Mr H also said that if Lending 
Stream had conducted full and proper affordability checks, a credit check would have shown 
multiple defaults and / or arrangements to pay on his credit file. These would have shown Mr 
H was in financial difficulties and Lending Stream shouldn't have lent the money.
DRN-1346355In its final response, Lending Stream told Mr H it would not uphold his complaint. It said it 
had conducted rigorous affordability checks for each loan.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and did not think this was a matter that should be 
upheld. Mr H disagreed with this view. He asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why below.
Lending Stream told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing 
to lend to Mr H. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending 
history with a view to seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at 
some point, Lending Stream should have realised that it shouldn't have provided any further 
loans. 
There appears to be no ongoing dispute about Loans 1,2 and 3 and I do not uphold this part 
of Mr Hs complaint. The checks Lending Stream carried out for Loans 1-3 appear to have 
been proportionate and there was nothing to make me think these loans appeared 
unaffordable or unsustainable.
Ive gone on to consider Loans 4, 5 and 6. Mr H took out Loan 4 after around 16 months 
since he repaid Loan 3. So, I think this was a new lending relationship and created a new 
chain of borrowing. Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending 
relationship, I think these checks would have probably been proportionate for this loan 
too and there was nothing in what Mr H had told Lending Stream that might have alerted it to 
the possibility that Mr H was having problems managing his money. 
When Mr H borrowed loan 5 he was still repaying Loan 4. He borrowed less than he had for 
loan 4. Lending Stream said it had carried out various affordability checks. It explained that 
Mr H had told it his monthly income was £2,313 and his outgoings were £1,300. Lending 
Stream said it had taken into account Mr Hs expenses, including his mortgage repayments, 
utilities, food transport, credit expenses and other payments and this would have left enough 
disposable income once the loan repayments had been factored in. It also said a credit 
worthiness check had been completed and the third-party credit reference agency confirmed 
a rating which was satisfactory. It has sent a copy of the outcome of these checks. 
These checks show  that for Loan 5 Mr H had one account in default and one account which 
was delinquent, and he had seven active accounts. I dont think from this information it would 
have alerted Lending Stream to the fact that Mr H was having problems managing his 
money. And to be clear, the information that Lending Stream appears to have been provided 
with was not as detailed as the information that Mr H is able to obtain 
Mr H has also provided a copy of a credit check from around that time. From this I can see 
that Mr H had several outstanding arrears payments on credit cards. It also looks like he was 
in arrangements to pay various other short-term lending with other providers for which he 
had to repay monthly amounts. But I dont think this is reflected in the information Lending 
Stream saw. And taking into account this was only the second loan in a chain of borrowing I 
dont think it needed to take further steps to verify the information Mr H had given it. From 
the information it had and from the income and outgoings Mr H had declared it likely 
appeared that Mr H could afford to repay this loan, even if ultimately that didn't turn out to be 
the case.
Ive thought carefully about Loan 6. I think that by Loan 6, notwithstanding this was the third 
loan in a chain of borrowing and Mr H still had loan 4 and 5 outstanding Lending Stream had 
done enough to check Mr Hs position. It was still relatively early in the chain of borrowing. Again, on its own credit searches, this time Mr H had nine active accounts. This appears to 
have taken into consideration Mr Hs loans from Lending Stream. According to the 
information Lending Stream had, neither the accounts in default or the delinquent accounts 
had increased from the information it had received for the earlier loans. At this stage I dont 
think Lending Stream would have been alerted to the fact that Mr H was likely having 
problems managing his money or that the loan was unaffordable or unsustainable 
considering the income Mr H had declared and his outgoings. There was also no evidence 
that Mr H was bankrupt or in a debt management plan and I also cant say there were any 
judgments. All in all, I think it did enough in carrying out the checks it had. From these 
checks I cant say it was unfair to lend Mr H Loan 6 either.
From the checks it did and the information it saw I dont think this would have made a 
difference to its decision to lend loans 4, 5 or 6. 
It appears Mr H had to renegotiate repayment of Loans 4, 5 and 6. I can appreciate in 
hindsight he feels that these loans were irresponsibly lent to him but for the reasons Ive 
given I cant say that Lending Stream did anything wrong at the time it gave Mr H the loans. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I dont uphold this complaint.
Id like to remind Lending Stream of its duty to treat Mr H fairly in relation to any outstanding 
loans.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman