DRN-3264163
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of a claim under their
household insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C explain that super glue was accidentally spilt onto a table they have insured
with Amtrust. This damaged the table surface. They contacted the company to make a claim
and its contractors visited to carry out a repair. In total three repair attempts were made
without success.
Mr and Mrs C say this has made the damaged area worse and more noticeable. They say
Amtrust subsequently offered to take the table aware to carry out a further repair, but it
couldnt say how long this would take. Mrs C says she has already taken time away from
work on three occasions. If the table was to be taken away, she needed to know how long
the repair would take, as being without a table would be very inconvenient.
Amtrust offered £50 compensation for the failed repair attempts. It says its policy provides
cover for repairs to be carried out. This is what it has offered to do by undertaking a more
comprehensive repair at a specialist workshop. This will involve the table surface being
renewed in full as opposed to a patch repair. Amtrust also offered Mr and Mrs C £500 to live
with the damage if they couldnt agree to the offer of a repair offsite.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with the handling of their claim and contacted our service. Our
investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She felt that Amtrust had handled the claim
fairly and in line with the terms of its policy by offering a repair. She didnt think the company
was bound to offer an alternative, such as a credit note or cash settlement. Our investigator
thought £50 compensation was fair to acknowledge the frustration caused by the failed
repair attempts.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the
matter. The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the terms of the policy in detail and the relevant sections are copied below:
will cover you under this insurance against the cost of removing stains or repairing
damage caused by a sudden and unforeseen accidental event
1. Benefits: 1.1 This insurance will cover You against the cost of repairing Accidental
Damage to your insured items resulting in stains caused by:
e) inks, paints, dyes, wax and wax polish, glue.
And:
1.3 If We are unable to remove a stain from, or make a repair to the Insured Item(s), or If
We consider it to be uneconomical to do so, We will, at Our sole discretion, offer you:-
a) a new replacement for the Insured item(s) of identical or similar specification; or
b) a credit note to be put towards a new replacement for the insured item(s) purchased
from Harveys; or
c) a cash settlement. In this event, this insurance will cease and the Insured item(s)
may at Our sole discretion become Our property.
Its accepted that the repairs to date havent been a success. In fact, Mr and Mrs C say it has
made the appearance of the damaged area worse. This view is shared by the companys
claims assessor and is noted in the records provided. This point isnt in dispute.
As detailed above the purpose of the policy is to provide for the cost of removing stains or
repairing damage. Amtrust says a repair can be carried out, and it has identified a specialist
able to carry out the work. From the records provided the specialist has confirmed the repair
can be done, albeit this will mean the table being moved to its workshop and involve a more
comprehensive repair, resurfacing the table, to ensure a uniform finish.
The terms of the policy mention alternative outcomes if Amtrust is unable to remove a stain
or make a repair. However, this includes the caveat, at our sole discretion.
I have thought about whether its fairer for an alternative to be offered at this juncture, given
the three failed repairs.
A specialist has confirmed an effective repair is possible. Its not simply a case of trying the
same repair method again. Instead the table will be taken to a workshop and the surface
fully renewed. I can understand Mr and Mrs Cs concerns, but I think Amtrust is being fair by
offering this repair in line with the terms of its policy.
I note Amtrust has offered an alternative, which is for Mr and Mrs C to accept a payment of
£500 in settlement of their claim. In the circumstances, given their concerns about the table
being taken away I think this was fair.
I have thought about the time taken by Amtrust in handling this claim and the impact on Mr
and Mrs C.
I note they first made the claim in September 2020. A repair appointment was discussed
three weeks later, and this was agreed to take place at the end of October. A further
appointment was arranged for mid-December. And an appointment was then made to try
one final attempt at a patch repair. This was arranged for the beginning of January 2021.
The records show the offsite solution was considered in February 2021 and communicated
to Mr and Mrs C in March.
The time taken to arrange the failed onsite repairs and ultimately offer an offsite alternative,
took over five months. I acknowledge Amtrusts comment that the table is unusual, and thishas hampered its repair efforts. But it remains that Amtrust is responsible for repairing Mr
and Mrs Cs table, which is the reason they agreed to take out this policy. A suitable repair
has yet to be completed, which has caused inconvenience for Mr and Mrs C.
I note Mrs C says she took time out of work to allow access for the repairs to be completed
on three occasions. In addition, they have been frustrated and disappointed by the time
taken to handle their claim. Mrs C says on the day before the table was supposed to be
collected Amtrust still couldnt tell her how long the repair would take, which is why the offsite
repair was cancelled. She says she doesnt believe the company will confirm a timeframe if
she agrees to the offsite repair.
In considering the above I do think its fair for Amtrust to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs C
This has no doubt been a frustrating experience for them and caused inconvenience.
Fortunately, their table was available for them to use during this period. But I think a total
payment of £150 is more reasonable to acknowledge the frustration and inconvenience
experienced.
Amtrust will need to provide an estimated timeframe, if Mr and Mrs C agree to an offsite
repair, so they can make an informed decision on whether to proceed.
Finally, Mr and Mrs C raised concerns that the restored table may not match the colour of
their sideboard. Amtrust says it will colour match as best as possible but cant guarantee an
exact match.
I have looked at what the policy terms require in relation to this point, they say:
We cannot guarantee an exact match of colour or pattern in the event of your insured
item(s) being cleaned, repaired or replaced and our liability is limited to the best endeavours
of our authorised cleaning and repair agents.
I can sympathise with Mr and Mrs Cs concerns here. But the policy terms are clear.
Because of this I think Amtrust treated them fairly, when relying on the terms of its policy and
offering an offsite repair or a £500 payment.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part against Amtrust Europe Limited and 
require it to:
-pay £150 in compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr and 
Mrs C.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Amtrust responded to say it had no further comments.
Mr and Mrs C responded to say that despite contacting Amtrust it hasnt paid compensation 
or discussed how long a repair will take. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C say Amtrust has yet to pay compensation or confirm a timeframe for the repair 
of the table. But my decision isnt binding on Amtrust until the final decision is accepted by them. So, I wouldnt expect the business to have carried out the required actions set out in 
my provisional decision yet. 
Amtrust says it has no further comments to make. 
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
In summary I didnt think Amtrust treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly when offering an offsite 
repair or £500 in line with its policy terms. But the time taken to handle the claim was 
unreasonable and its fair that Amtrust pays compensation for this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold in part Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint and Amtrust Europe Limited must:
-pay £150 in compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr and 
Mrs C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman