DRN-3712595
The complaint
Miss D complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly 
lent her money on high cost loans she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Miss D with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount Repayment 
periodMonthly 
instalmentsDate repaid
Loan 1 31/7/2018 £1,000 18 months £114 28/6/2019
Loan 2 28/6/2019 £3,100 36 months £249 live
Miss D repaid the balance of the first loan with the second loan. She got into difficulties 
making the payments for the second loan and had to arrange a smaller monthly payment. 
She complained to Everyday that it had lent to her irresponsibly. She has provided copies of 
her bank statements around the time of the applications for both loans.
Everyday said it carried out all necessary eligibility checks, including verifying Miss Ds 
income, obtaining credit reports, and checking recent bank statements for both loans. It 
assessed that both loans were affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said that for both loans Everydays 
checks had shown that Miss D was spending a substantial proportion of her income in credit 
debts. So she said that the loans were unaffordable.
Everyday accepted that the second loan shouldnt have been given. But it maintained its 
view that the first loan was affordable, and that Miss D had sufficient monthly income to meet 
the repayments.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss D 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss D would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ds ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Miss D undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss D. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
The credit report for Miss D obtained at the time of the application for this loan showed that 
she had three loans, and two mail order accounts, with total repayments assessed by my 
calculations at around £252 a month. These repayments represented about 31% of her 
monthly income of £1,186. As she was on a relatively low income, I think that was too high.
Miss D was supposed to be paying off one loan with a balance of £1,101 on it for which she 
had been paying around £122 a month. If Everyday had arranged payment of the bulk of that 
loan Miss D should have been able to afford the new loan. But as it didnt do that and Ive 
seen no evidence from Miss Ds bank statements that she repaid the loan on her record, I 
dont think the loan was affordable.
Ive considered the calculation that Everyday did of her monthly disposable income  this 
came to about £218. But its not just pounds and pence affordability that we look at. The 
indications were that she had been struggling with payday loans and had the main loan been paid off she might have just been able to afford the Everyday loan. As it is it became just 
another loan to be added to the payday loans, and as it transpired she continued borrowing 
by the time she applied for the second loan. So I dont think that Everyday made a fair 
lending decision.
loan 2
Everyday accepted that this loan was irresponsibly lent. I think that was a fair response. Ill 
add the repayment of interest and fees in respect of this loan to my decision below.
Putting things right
Miss D has had the capital payment in respect of the loans, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loans are concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans. 
Treat any payments made by Miss D as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Miss D has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss D
If Everyday has sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can to 
buy it back - if it cant, it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the redress and 
it then needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Miss Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman