DRN-4291075
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account, didnt credit his 
points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact.
What happened
Mr S had a rewards club premium credt card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
In late 2021, Creation sent Mr S a letter informing him that his credit card account would be 
closed on 2 December 2021. And that they wouldnt be crediting him the points for the last 
statement period, his free night stay voucher or a refund of the unused annual fee.
Mr S complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They said they acted 
fairly in closing Mr Ss account, not refunding the annual fee, crediting the points or the hotel 
voucher. Mr S wasnt happy with Creations response and brought his compaint to our 
service. 
After Mr S brought his complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Mr Ss 
complaint. They offered Mr S a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, the points not credited and 
the free night stay voucher.
Mr S didnt accept the offer. He complained that Creation havent offered compensation for 
the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having to raise a complaint with our service. 
He said that overall the offer didnt go far enough. He wants an extra hotel voucher, more 
points, and interest on the loss of use of his pro-rata refund. Mr S added that hes happy for 
the compensation to be paid to charity.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and thought Creation needed to do 
more. Our investigator thought that as well as offering to refund the annual fee, points and 
free night stay voucher, Creation should pay Mr S £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to him by not being able to use his free night stay voucher when he was booking 
holidays, which he did well advance of his planned trips. 
Mr S didnt respond to the view. Creation disagreed. It said it had done enough to put things 
right and that the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account permitted them to add or remove 
the free stay voucher at any time.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Mr S wants Creation to explain the reason it closed his account. But Creation is under no 
obligation to tell Mr S the reasons behind its decision to close his account, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr S this information. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Creation has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Mr S, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
I know Mr S is annoyed and upset that Creation closed his account. I appreciate that it cant 
be pleasant being told youre no longer wanted as a customer. Creation can only close 
accounts in certain cirucumstances and if its in the terms and conditions of the account. 
Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ss account. I reviewed 
the terms and they explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by giving 60 
days notice. 
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Creations actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that Creations decision to close Mr S was reached 
legitimately and fairly. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of this 
complaint, and Im satisfied Creation acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close the 
account as it has already done. I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr S however, Creation 
have provided Mr S with the full notice period, so I cant say Creation have acted unfairly.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Ss points, award him the free night stay voucher and 
give a pro-rata refund. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr S of access to 
the points, voucher and pro-rata refund when initially closing the account. But Im pleased to 
see that they have now agreed to rectify this. I understand that Creation has already 
reimbursed Mr S his points and voucher. But Mr S is still awaiting his annual fee refund. I 
note that Creation has agreed to a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, but I will make an award 
in that sum, of £37.97, so that Mr S can enforce it should he need to do so.
The investigator thought that Creation should also pay Mr S £50 compensation as Mr S 
wasnt able to use his free night voucher on holidays, which he says he usually booked at 
least 10 months in advance. Mr S has provided evidence to this service that he would have 
used his voucher on trips, had it been available to him. So Im satisfied that he lost out on 
the opportunity of using his voucher and was inconvenienced. Taking this into account, I 
agree with the investigator that Creation should pay Mr S compensation. Im satisfied that 
£50 compensation is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and 
upset Mr S was caused by not being able to use his free night voucher. 
Mr S says the compensation doesnt go far enough. I should explain that our awards are 
designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset caused to the consumer by something 
a financial business did wrong. We are not here to punish financial businesses. Nor can we 
award compensation as a means of punishing a business for a consumer bringing their 
complaint to this service. Mr S has asked to be compensated 8% interest on his pro-rata 
annual fee refund. To award 8%, Id need to be satisfied that hes lost out by not having the refund returned sooner. And on balance, I cant say this is the case. Therefore, I wont be 
awarding 8% interest. 
Putting things right
If they havent already done so, Ill be directing Creation to refund the unused part of the 
annual fee and pay Mr S £50 compensation for the trouble and upset of not being able to 
use his free night voucher.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Financial Services 
Limited to:
Pay Mr S £37.97
Pay Mr S £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not being able to 
use his free night voucher
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman