DRN-3155131
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave them unsuitable investment advice.
The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H met with an HSBC advisor in October and December 2000. HSBC 
recommended they invested £58,000 in a flexible bond and £38,000 in its portfolio 
management service (PMS).
Mr and Mrs Hs representative says both investments werent suitable for them. In summary, 
it says that they were recommended to invest 100% of their available funds and that they 
were inexperienced investors. The PMS was too high risk for them, particularly taking into 
account they were on the eve of retirement.
Our investigator couldnt conclude that the bond had been mis-sold. He thought the bond 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs agreed attitude to risk and investment objectives, taking into 
account that theyd kept enough of their available funds uninvested and that the bond 
returned a reasonable return on surrender.
But our investigator didnt think the PMS was suitable. He said that the investment was 
largely in equities which are generally higher risk and that the £38,000 invested represented 
Mr Hs entire pension payment. He thought the level of risk was too high for Mr and Mrs H.
HSBC didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I didnt find the investment advice was unsuitable 
for Mr and Mrs H, based on their likely circumstances and needs in 2000/2001 and 
I explained the reasons why. I said:
Mr and Mrs H received investment advice from HSBC in late 2000 and the 
investments took place in early 2001. Neither party has been able to provide much 
evidence from the time, which isnt unreasonable or surprising. In cases like this, 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. It doesnt 
necessarily follow that this service wont uphold a complaint where theres limited 
evidence from the point of sale and we are reliant on a consumers testimony. But I 
do have to take into account that the testimony here is given more than 20 years 
after the event took place and that memories will inevitably fade over time.
From what I can see from the evidence available, a financial planning meeting took 
place towards the end of 2000, which is when the bond was recommended. Shortly 
afterwards, Mr H phoned the advisor to let him know he would be drawing a pension 
which would give him a lump sum of £38,000 which he wanted to invest. There is 
reference to this being available to him, earlier than expected, which suggests it 
may have been discussed during the meeting. Following this phone call, the 
investment in the PMS was recommended, based on Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances 
which would have been discussed during the earlier meeting.
One of Mr and Mrs Hs representatives key points is that the recommendation to 
invest in the bond and the PMS represented all their available assets. But, from what 
its told us, this isnt the case. It said Mr and Mrs H had £95,000 available in their 
savings and deposit accounts following the maturity of an endowment policy, having 
paid off their mortgage. HSBC recommended £58,000 was invested in a bond. So 
this represented just over 60% of their available funds. I dont find this amount was 
unreasonable or unsuitable, particularly as Mr H recalls he was still earning a decent 
salary, despite a recent change in his employment. I think Mr and Mrs H were 
advised to retain enough in a readily accessible deposit account to cover any 
unexpected emergencies.
The recommendation to invest £38,000 in the PMS was as a result of Mr H receiving 
a lump sum from his pension  and was in addition to the £95,000 he and Mrs H had 
available when they first met with HSBC. So I find it more likely than not that the 
recommendation to invest £96,000 in total meant Mr and Ms H still had enough 
uninvested money to cover their day to day needs and future plans. In reaching this 
decision, Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs representatives comments about 
them being on the eve of retirement. Ive not seen anything to suggest they were 
about to retire  Mr H had been made redundant and had started in a consultant role 
and likely still had around 10 years until retirement. So this doesnt change my 
conclusion.
I now need to consider whether the advice to invest in the bond and the PMS was 
suitable taking into account Mr and Mrs Hs investment objectives and attitude to risk.
The letter from HSBC about the investment of £38,000 refers to what had been 
agreed at the earlier financial planning meeting. This says that Mr and Mrs H had a 
need for capital growth. This seems reasonable, taking into account they were both 
working and seem to have had enough income to meet their day to day expenses.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative says they were cautious investors, but I think this is 
probably said with the benefit of hindsight. I say this because the HSBC letter says 
that Mr and Mrs H had a balanced attitude to investment risk. This would most likely 
have been agreed following a discussion about risk and, in the absence of any other 
paperwork from the time, I think its reasonable to rely on the letter as being an 
accurate reflection of what was discussed and agreed.
I accept Mr and Mrs H had limited investment experience. But, in all likelihood, this 
was the first occasion that they had capital available to invest. It doesnt automatically 
follow that someone has a cautious attitude to risk, just because they havent 
invested before.
HSBC says that the bonds objective was to exceed interest rates by investing in, 
primarily, fixed interest securities, gilts and corporate bonds, and that the bond was 
classed as low risk.
HSBC has provided evidence about the PMS. There were three investment options 
available  growth, balanced and income. HSBC recommended Mr and Mrs H invest 
in the growth portfolio. This was the highest risk option. The information about the 
PMS said that:the Growth portfolio aims to increase the value of your investment over the longer 
term by investing in a selection of equity based UK funds, with some exposure to 
overseas markets for the purpose of diversification. In addition, the portfolio typically 
has around 10% invested in fixed interest funds, providing a defensive element.
Taken in isolation, this may not have been suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs balanced 
attitude to risk. But this investment represented less than 30% of their money they 
had available for investment. Overall I find that the PMS, the low risk bond, and the 
money they held on deposit, together achieved their objective of capital growth whilst 
taking a balanced attitude to risk.
HSBC didnt have any further comments to make in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or information, I see no reason to depart 
from my earlier conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman