DRN-2974517
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) declined his claim under his motor 
insurance policy following the theft of his vehicle.
What happened
Mr R insured his vehicle with Covea. Mr R was working at a property and had parked his van  
on the road outside when it was stolen. Mr R had left his keys in his jacket which he left on a 
skip on the propertys drive. He made Covea aware of the theft of his van at the end of June 
2020 and also reported the matter to the police.
Covea made further enquiries and instructed an assessor to attend the theft location and 
complete a report. The report noted that Mr R had been at the rear of the roof when the theft 
occurred and the van was not in sight until he went to get materials. It stated that Mr R had 
not adhered to the terms and conditions of his policy about taking reasonable care and 
Covea declined his claim.
Mr R complained to this service. Our investigator thought that Mr R could have done more to 
reasonably safeguard his keys. She said that it was fair for Covea to conclude that Mr R did 
not take reasonable steps to prevent the loss.
Mr R wasnt happy about this outcome and the matter has been referred to me in the 
circumstances to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to decide whether Covea acted unfairly and/or unreasonably in the light of the 
policy terms in declining Mr Rs claim. Having considered all the evidence, I cannot say that 
Covea have acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions are the starting point and I include relevant extracts.
The first section of the policy includes the following; - We will pay for loss of or damage to 
your vehicle caused by :.. theft or attempted theft. 
We will not insure loss of or damage to your vehicle caused by the following  Theft or 
attempted theft while nobody is in your vehicle, unless all the doors, windows and other
openings are closed and locked, the keys are removed, and the alarm is set (if you have an 
alarm.
It also states :- Please make sure you this page and includes the following condition;-You 
must take all reasonable steps to prevent loss of or damage to your vehicle.
Mr R states that the skip was on private property and the jacket was behind the skip and out 
of public view with the keys in a zipped pocket of the jacket. He said that he could see the 
van up to 30 minutes before the van had been taken. He also said that he had locked the 
van by pressing the lock button twice and the property was in a good area.
Coveas assessor recorded Mr Rs account of the facts that the jacket was on the skip but 
positioned towards the front door of the property and that he thought that someone would 
have to walk onto the drive and reach the skip to see it. The assessor stated that, based on 
where Mr R said the skip was positioned, it was 6.6 metres away from the van. He agreed 
that the property was located in a cul-de-sac on a quiet, private residential estate.
Covea stated that although the skip was situated on a private drive, the skip would seem to 
be visible from the junction nearby. It also stated that the vehicle was out of sight and not 
under Mr Rs control at the time of the theft. It didnt consider that Mr R had taken all 
necessary steps to prevent the theft, or that he was in a position to intervene in the theft or 
provide a physical deterrent.
I appreciate that the theft occurred in a quiet area and that Mr R didnt consider his vehicle 
key and van to have been at risk. Having carefully considered the policy terms and 
conditions in the light of the evidence however, unfortunately I dont consider that Mr R took 
all reasonable steps to prevent a theft. I think he made a conscious decision to put his jacket 
on the skip and zipped his pocket to prevent loss of cash and keys and so appears to have 
accepted the risk of loss.
On the balance of probabilities, I cant say that Covea acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
applying the terms conditions of the policy in the way that it did. Im satisfied that Mr R didnt 
take all reasonable care of his van as he left a jacket with the key in it at the front of a 
property with an open drive. The jacket was out of his sight and control and in close 
proximity to the van.
I know that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr R and I appreciate the distress 
and anxiety that Mr R will have suffered as a result of the theft, however in all the 
circumstances, I conclude that this is a fair and reasonable outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Covea Insurance Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman