DRN-2877910
Complaint
Ms M has complained that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as Ratesetter) unfairly brought 
about an unaffordable loan for her. She says additional checks should have been carried out 
before the loan was approved. 
Background
Ratesetter operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Ms M being 
provided with a loan in October 2017. The loan was for £7,500.00. The loan had a 60-month 
term and an APR of 5.9%. This meant that the total amount of £8,653.80, including interest 
and other charges of £1,153.80, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £144.23.
Ms Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Ratesetter 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms M unfairly. So he didnt recommend Ms Ms 
complaint be upheld. As Ms M disagreed with our adjudicators view, the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ms complaint.
Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Ms M 
could afford to make the loan payments before bringing about this loan for her. Our website 
sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I appreciate this was Ms Ms second loan with Ratesetter. But Ms Ms first loan was settled 
in full and early as it was repaid only 20 or so months into a 60-month term. And given Ms M 
approached Ratesetter a further two years after loan one was settled, and it was for a lower 
amount, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ratesetter to have placed too much weight on 
loan one when deciding on the level of checks appropriate before approving loan two. 
As I understand it, Ratesetter enquiries into Ms Ms circumstances suggested that she was 
employed and earning around £1,300.00 a month. I also understand that Ratesetter also 
carried out a credit check which showed Ms M had a mortgage, credit card balances, a hire-
purchase agreement and no significant previous repayment issues. It also looks as though 
Ms M was intending to settle, or at least she ended up settling, the outstanding balance on 
the hire-purchase agreement she had with some of the proceeds from this loan. Ratesetter 
also used data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to calculate Ms Ms non-
mortgage and credit related living expenses. 
As there was no concerning information on Ms Ms credit file and the monthly loan 
repayments were relatively low, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ratesetter to use ONS 
data to calculate Ms Ms non-mortgage and credit related living expenditure. In my view, the 
information obtained suggested Ms M didnt fall outside the profile of the average customer. 
I accept that Ms M may now be having difficulty making her payments and Im sorry to hear 
this. But Im satisfied Ratesetters checks before approving this loan were proportionate. Id 
also add that while I think Ratesetters checks were proportionate in this instance and so it 
didnt need to check Ms Ms bank statements, the copies Ms M has provided us with dont 
obviously contradict the information Ratesetter gathered, or show another obvious reason 
why Ratesetter shouldnt have lent to her either. So, in any event, I cant reasonably say that 
further checks would have prevented Ratesetter from bringing about Ms Ms loan either. 
I also think that I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Ratesetter did anything wrong when bringing about Ms Ms loan. The key thing 
here is that it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments would be 
affordable for her. 
So overall I dont think Ratesetter treated Ms M unfairly or unreasonably when bringing 
about her loan. As this is the case and while I sympathise with Ms M as a result of any 
difficulties she might now be having, Im afraid that Im not upholding her complaint. I 
appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing for Ms M. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for it and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint, Id like to remind Ratesetter of its ongoing 
obligation to exercise forbearance, should it choose to collect payments from Ms M and it be 
the case shes now in financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman