DRN-2079910
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him £4,196.18 of transactions, made 
using his debit card, that he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr B contacted Lloyds on 30 December 2019 as he had noticed his balance was lower than 
he was expecting. He also reported his card as lost.
Lloyds discussed recent transactions with Mr B and together they identified three payments 
Mr B didnt recognise. They were for £250, £2,446.18 and £1,500 respectively. All went to 
the same merchant, an international money transfer provider. All three took place on 
16 December 2019 between 2:55am and 3:31am.
 
Lloyds could also see there had bene attempted payments to a similar service for 2:04am 
and again at around 10:00pm, but they hadnt gone through. Transactions had also been 
attempted on 17, 23, 24 and 28 December 2019 but also werent processed.
Mr B said he didnt carry out any of this activity. He said hed had guests at his house for 
several days from 13 or 14 December 2019 for a wedding party. He thought one of these 
people could have carried out the transactions.
Lloyds explained how each of the transactions processed would have needed a one-time 
passcode (OTP) in order to authorise them. Those OTPs had been sent to Mr Bs phone and 
so the bank questioned how someone could have accessed it, along with his card. Mr B said 
he hadnt received any OTPs and didnt have them on his phone at the time of reporting the 
disputed transactions. He said his phone wasnt password protected.
Lloyds asked Mr B about a large payment of £7,000 into his account on 16 December 2019, 
a short time before the disputed transactions. It did so because it was largely this transfer 
that allowed the disputed transactions; there wouldnt have been enough money in the 
account otherwise. Mr B said he didnt have a reason for transferring the funds in, he just 
wanted to do it.
Having considered the information, Lloyds decided to reject Mr Bs claim of fraud. It felt it 
more likely that Mr B had authorised the transactions himself. It didnt think Mr B had 
reasonably explained how someone else could have carried out the transactions through 
gaining access to his card and the OTPs. It also found it strange that hed transferred money 
into his account shortly before the fraud and checked his balance through his online banking 
app.
 
Mr B brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the banks response. He said hed 
been the victim of fraud before and had been refunded so thought he should be treated the 
same now. He brought his complaint to our service for an impartial review.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. His reasoning was 
similar to the banks. He asked Mr B for any further clarification or explanation of events that 
might show how someone else was able to transact on his account without his authority. He 
also questioned why Mr B hadnt reported the loss of his card sooner. It had taken him two 
weeks to do so, despite him normally using his card regularly.
Mr B couldnt offer further explanation and so the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Like the bank he thought it more likely than not Mr B had authorised the transactions. Mr B 
disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking, they set out when a 
customer will be responsible for transactions on their account. Thats typically when theyve 
been authorised by the customer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether 
the customer authorised transactions or not there needs to be evidence to support the 
banks case, if it wishes to hold him liable.
Our service bases its findings on the evidence and information available and we assess 
whether the banks actions have been fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Where 
evidence isnt available we make findings on what we think  on balance  is more likely 
than not to have happened. I find its more likely than not Mr B did authorise the transactions 
hes disputed.
I wont repeat in detail all the factors that have been explained before, by both the bank and 
our investigator. But the key reasons for my findings are:
Mr B hasnt given a satisfactory explanation as to why he transferred £7,000 into his 
account within hours of the disputed transactions. This isnt something Mr B does 
regularly; there are no remotely similar payments into his account over the previous 
year.
I accept customers will transfer their money between accounts. But I find it very 
unusual that Mr B happened to transfer this money  with no apparent reason  just 
before he says he fell victim to fraud.
Mr B hasnt given a particularly strong account of who might have done this. He said 
he had guests but doesnt appear to have questioned anyone or attempted to find out 
who it might have been or how they could have gotten his card.
Mr B says he didnt receive the OTPs but Im satisfied they were sent to his phone 
and then used to authorise the payments. Lloyds has shown persuasive evidence of 
that. And so theres no explanation as to how someone came to be in possession of 
his phone for a least an hour and a half (given the timing of attempted and successful 
transactions) without him noticing. And we know it was in his possession at around 
1am, an hour before the disputed activity. 
Mr B didnt report his card as lost for two weeks. I find this strange given how 
regularly he normally used his card. Theres no explanation for what Mr B was 
otherwise doing to fund his day to day expenses at the time.Lloyds might become responsible for transactions on Mr Bs account if the evidence 
suggested someone else carried out the spending without his authority. But, despite what 
Mr B says, theres little to suggest someone else was operating without Mr Bs permission. 
Mr Bs own actions, along with unexplained circumstances like the use of OTPs, do no point 
to third party involvement. And so I find Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in holding 
Mr B responsible for the transactions.
Mr B has said hes been the victim of fraud before and was refunded. That appears to have 
been in relation to a loan application and some mobile phone contracts. He thinks this 
should mean hes refunded now too. I cant agree thats the case. I havent considered his 
previous fraud claim or what happened there. We have a separate, distinct set of 
circumstances here that dont appear tied to Mr Bs other claim at all. Each fraud claim will 
be investigated by a bank, and by our service, in its own right.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman