DRN-2489224
The complaint
Mr K complains that Grove & Dean Ltd (G & D) charged him an excessive fee when he 
wanted to cancel the motor insurance policy hed taken out through it.  
What happened
Mr K bought the policy for £220 on 8 March 2020, to start four days later. But the next day  
he told G & D he didnt want to proceed with it.  G & Ds advisor said there would be a £55 
cancellation charge, in line with its terms and conditions. Mr G thought that was too high, as 
the policy hadnt yet started. He decided to keep the policy rather than pay the charge. Mr K 
said later that he wanted an apology from G & D and the chance to cancel the policy mid-
term, with no cancellation fee. G & D said Mr K had agreed to its terms and conditions 
before buying the policy and entering into the contract with G & D. It said as it incurs costs of 
up to £100 per policy as an intermediary, a £55 cancellation charge wasnt excessive.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. She said the rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) cover charges made on cancellation. The rules say a fee cant be 
charged unless a consumer has been duly informed. She said G & D had shown that its £55 
charge was brought to Mr Ks attention before he was able to proceed to pay for the policy 
online. In her view it was clear that the charge would apply once the policy was bought  not 
after it took effect. The investigator said work was involved for G & D in setting the policy up, 
and she didnt think the charge it made included any element of profit. She thought that Mr 
Ks concern about the way G & D had dealt with his complaint was outside our remit. 
Mr K  disagreed with the investigators findings. He provided details of a quote obtained by a 
family member for a policy costing £152.67, with a non-refundable charge by the broker of 
only £35 - less a discount of £17.20. The investigator said she couldnt comment on other 
brokers charges. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G & D has shown that on its website Mr K  had to agree that hed read its terms and 
conditions before he could proceed to make a payment. The cancellation charge was set out 
in the terms and conditions and was also shown on the page before Mr K could go further 
and pay for the policy. If Mr K objected to the cancellation charge  which G & D said would 
apply should the policy be cancelled within 14 days of the purchase - he need not have 
bought the policy. But he chose to accept the terms and conditions set out by G & D.
As long as a business has made any cancellation fee clear before a policy is bought, the 
FCAs rules allow it to charge in proportion to the service provided by the business. Its for a 
consumer to decide whether or not to agree to an intermediarys terms and conditions, but in 
setting up a policy  and in cancelling it - all intermediaries incur operating costs. The details 
G & D has provided to us indicate that its costs in doing so are often higher than £55. I dont 
think that sum is out of line with the charges made by many other intermediaries, although 
some may charge more - and others will charge less, or may offer discounts.
 
Mr K said G & D cancelled his policy, charged him for that and forced him to explain to it that 
he wouldnt agree to the cancellation unless the cancellation charge was waived. I cant see 
any evidence of that on the file, which seems to show that the policy started on the due date 
and remained in force. And if any error was made, it seems it was put right very quickly.  
   
Mr K says it took G & D six weeks to investigate his complaint. I think I can comment on this 
point, as the complaints-handling was linked to the underlying issue Mr K was unhappy with 
 the cancellation charge. Under the FCAs rules, G & D had up to eight weeks to deal with 
Mr Ks complaint. I know he thinks it should have acted more promptly  but I dont think it 
did anything wrong, as it complied with the regulations that apply to complaints-handling. 
As I dont think Mr K has shown that G & D acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman