DRN-2621236
The complaint
Miss S and Mr B, a named driver have complained that Zenith Insurance plc avoided Miss 
Ss policy (treated it like it never existed) and is trying to recover the costs its paid for a third 
party claim. 
What happened
Miss S took out a car insurance policy with Zenith through an online website via a broker on 
15 October 2015 with a start date of 20 October 2015. 
In September 2016 Mr B was involved in an incident with another vehicle which he was 
found at fault for. 
Zenith investigated the claim and found that Miss S had answered the question it asked 
about previous convictions for Mr B incorrectly. Zenith initially considered this to be a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, but later changed it to a careless 
misrepresentation. 
Zenith voided the policy from inception and is looking to recover the third party claim costs 
from Miss S as the policyholder. 
In September 2019 Zenith settled the claim and wrote to Miss S requesting the recovery of 
the claim costs which were over £72,000. 
Solicitors acting on behalf of Miss S and Mr B made a complaint to Zenith. But Zenith said it 
had acted correctly and the recovery costs were owed. 
Miss S and Mr Bs solicitor brought their complaint to us. Our investigator thought Zeniths 
decision not to cover the costs of the claim was reasonable and in line with The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA.
He thought the recording of the voidance was unfair. Had Miss S given correct information 
about Mr Bs driving conviction, he said Zenith would have declined cover for Mr B, but 
would have offered cover for Miss S. Miss S had no previous convictions. Given the impact 
of the voidance against Miss S in terms of availability and cost for buying any insurance  
coupled with the high claims costs from the voidance  the investigator thought Zenith 
should remove the voidance marker.
Zenith didnt agree. It said it has correctly recorded the voidance as Miss S misrepresented 
Mr Bs conviction history. 
Miss S is very upset with the investigators view that the voidance was reasonable. 
So as both parties disagree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zenith says Miss S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
provided incorrect dates for a DR10 conviction for Mr B. A letter from the DVLA addressed to 
Mr B in September 2015 confirmed that his ban would end at midnight on 20 October 2015. 
Miss S bought the policy on 15 October 2015 with a start date of 20 October 2015. 
Miss S disclosed to Zenith that Mr B received a DR10 conviction in September 2014. The 
solicitor said Miss S understood the date of arrest to be the date of conviction. Miss S told 
Zenith the length of the ban was nine months. However, because of the incorrect conviction 
date, Zenith was led to believe that Mr Bs driving ban had ended in July 2015, which was 
over three months before the actual end date - and after the start date of the policy.
Zenith has shown that had Mr Bs ban ended before the policy start date, it would have 
provided cover for both Miss S and Mr B. 
Ive looked at the key question Miss S was asked about her and the named driver on the 
comparison website where she applied for the policy. It said:
Have you had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, 
disqualifications or bans in the past 5 years?
If the answer to this question was yes, the following question was:
Did the conviction result in a driving ban? Yes/No. If yes, Number of months driving 
ban from this conviction
Miss S reported Mr Bs driving ban, but the conviction date she gave was incorrect. I 
appreciate that Miss S believed the conviction date and arrest date was the same, but the 
responsibility to provide the correct information when answering the insurers questions is on 
the policyholder. Zenith relied on the information Miss S gave when deciding to provide 
insurance for her and Mr B.
As Miss S did disclose the conviction, I dont think the misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless. But I dont think Miss S took reasonable care to check the dates. I think the 
question was clear in that it asked for the number of months from the conviction. So I think 
Miss S carelessly misrepresented the facts to Zenith. Had she provided the correct dates for 
the conviction of 20 January 2015, with a ban length of nine months, this would have told 
Zenith that Mr B was still disqualified from driving on the start date of 20 October 2015. Because the information Miss S provided for the start date of the policy was incorrect, Zenith 
has said that it wouldnt have offered a policy as Mr B was still disqualified from driving.
An insurer has its own underwriting criteria to decide what risk its prepared to take on when 
provided insurance. This information is commercially sensitive and so cannot be shared with 
customers. But we can ask an insurer to share this information with us so that we can decide 
if its treated its customer fairly. 
Im satisfied from the underwriting information provided that Zenith wouldnt have provided 
cover for Mr B if Miss S had provided the correct dates for his driving conviction and ban. Mr 
B applied for the renewal of his driving licence following the ban. The DVLA wrote to Mr B on 
23 September 2015 and confirmed the ban would expire at midnight on 20 October 2015. 
However, the policy had started from 00.01 on the same day.
This means Im satisfied Miss Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
The category of misrepresentation has an impact on the remedies an insurer carries out. In 
this case, Zenith initially classified the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless, but 
changed it to careless. I agree with the latter decision by Zenith and Im satisfied Miss Ss 
misrepresentation should be treated as careless. So Ive looked at the actions Zenith can 
take in accordance with CIDRA for this class of misrepresentation.
Zenith avoided Miss Ss policy and so this means it hasnt provided indemnity for Mr B for 
the incident under the policy - as it is treated as having never existed. Zenith has kept the 
premiums Miss S paid to contribute toward the claim costs it is looking to recover from Miss 
S. And Zenith is looking to recover the claim costs from Miss S. 
I realise that the impact of Zeniths decision is significant for Miss S, given the amount of the 
claim costs. And I sympathise with Miss S as I think she looked to obtain a policy to start 
from the date Mr B was no longer disqualified. But I cannot say that Zenith has acted 
unreasonably or treated Miss S differently to any other customer in the same position  
because Miss S didnt take reasonable care in providing accurate information to Zenith when 
she applied for the policy. So this means I dont think Zenith is responsible for the claim 
costs as a result of the incident Mr B was involved in  as he wasnt covered under the 
policy.
While I appreciate that Miss S is responsible for the information provided to Zenith, and I 
agree that Zenith is entitled to pursue Miss S for the claim costs in line with CIDRA, I think 
Zenith should remove the voidance marker. Zenith doesnt agree. 
The claim involved the named driver who wouldnt have been insured under the policy had 
the correct information been given. So as Ive said, I think Zeniths decision to look to 
recover the claim costs from the policyholder is something it is entitled to do. But Ive 
considered what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and in line with CIDRA.
Zenith would have provided a policy for Miss S, had she provided the correct dates for Mr 
Bs conviction. CIDRA says that if the insurer would have entered into the consumer 
insurance contract, but on different terms (excluding terms relating to the premium), the 
contract is to be treated as if it had been entered into on those different terms if the insurer 
so requires.
Miss S wasnt the driver involved in the incident and had no previous convictions. The impact 
of having a voidance marker means Miss S has very limited choice of insurer on the market, 
and of those she needs to pay significantly more for cover for not only car insurance but property and other insurance. So I think Zeniths decision not to remove the voidance marker 
is unduly harsh on Miss S. 
I realise that both parties will be disappointed with my decision. But having carefully 
considered all of the information, I think Zeniths decision not to cover the costs of the claim 
due to careless misrepresentation was in line with CIDRA. But I think it should remove the 
voidance marker against Miss S. And so Im upholding this complaint in part. Due to the 
amount of the claim costs, I think Zenith should consider making arrangements for a 
reasonable repayment plan with Miss S. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and require 
Zenith Insurance plc to remove any voidance marker against Miss Ss record from any 
external database. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman