DRN-1751791
The complaint 
Mr S complaint is about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decline of his claim under a travel 
insurance policy.  He wants the claim accepted and paid, and compensation.
Background
Mr and Mrs S had a travel insurance policy with Aviva. Mr S became unwell while 
abroad in January 2019. He went to hospital and diagnosed with ascites, a condition 
related to the liver. Mr S was advised to return to the UK by those treating him, but 
said he was told it wasnt urgent.
The policy didnt cover issues relating to Mr S liver as its abnormal function been 
declared and excluded. In February 2019, Mr S was admitted to hospital while still 
abroad due to suffering from an infection. He was diagnosed as having sepsis and 
multi-organ failure. In March, Mr S returned to the UK without assistance from his 
insurer as it revoked cover 11 days after saying the claim was covered, saying that 
the medical evidence said the sepsis was linked to the liver issues.
Mr S complained to Aviva about the time taken to consider his claim, the poor 
communication and the decision to revoke his cover under the policy.
Aviva said that the view of its medical advisers was that the infection and sepsis had 
been linked to Mr S liver condition, and so was excluded. It said that it hadnt caused 
unnecessary delays, but at points it was difficult to get the information it needed from 
the treating hospital and it wanted to make sure it was safe to bring Mr S home.
Mr S didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld.
Aviva doesnt agree and said that it could rely on the general information its doctors 
knew. Mr S had nothing further to add.
 
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to Aviva, Im also referring to 
its agents. Complaints handling isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service, 
but I will look at whether Aviva generally acted fairly and reasonably and focus on the core 
elements of the complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this complaint should be upheld for 
these reasons: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. The 
policy in Mr S case excludes any pre-existing medical condition not accepted by 
Aviva, which in this case means anything arising from his liver.
 
The source of the sepsis wasnt identified by the treating doctors, despite tests being 
undertaken. The doctors carried out tests and scans to see if the sepsis was connected to the liver issues, and found that there was no evidence this was the 
source of the infection. In light of the evidence, I cant say that it was fair or 
reasonable for Aviva to find that the source of the sepsis was connected to the liver 
issues, particularly as the conclusions of the treating doctors, who were closely 
involved with Mr S and his health at that time, was to the contrary. The treating 
doctors themselves felt Aviva wasnt willing to listen.
 
I accept that the medical view is that liver failure is linked to an increased risk of 
infection and sepsis. But infection and sepsis can arise for other reasons, including 
issues with the heart, and I dont think I can overlook the clear evidence of the 
treating doctors that theres no evidence linking Mr S infection and sepsis to his liver. 
Aviva hasnt shown that the sepsis was linked to the liver, as opposed to anything 
else. It has provided general information, while Mr S has shown that he suffered an 
insured event and that the treating doctors cannot link it to his liver condition. Mr S 
has shown that he suffers from a number of health issues which mayve caused the 
sepsis, and that in any event the infection mightve arisen for a wholly unconnected 
reason. I dont think it was fair or reasonable to decline the claim in all the 
circumstances, particularly the findings of the treating doctors that there was no 
evidence of a link to the liver.
 
I note that part of the complaint was about the need to purchase additional insurance 
as once the claim had been declined, the extension of the policy no longer covered 
Mr and Mrs S. As the claim in my view shouldnt have been declined, I agree that this 
additional cost should be considered for payment by Aviva under the terms and 
conditions of the policy as if the claim hadnt been declined, there wouldnt have been 
any need to purchase it. I dont think its fair or reasonable for me to award trouble 
and upset specifically for this issue as Mr and Mrs S understood that they needed to 
purchase the insurance as a result of the decline and I think its best to look at 
compensation for trouble and upset globally in respect of all the failings.
 
There were delays, but I can see Aviva was working in the background to get the 
information it needed. The situation was complex and Mr S condition was changing, 
while several tests were being undertaken. Mr S condition did change considerably 
over time, with him getting better and worse at different times. And given how unwell 
Mr S was, repatriation wasnt going to be a simple matter as shown by the advice 
from the doctors who are experts in international travel received by Aviva. I dont 
think Aviva caused any unnecessary delays.
 
But its decision to confirm cover and then withdraw it was unfair and unreasonable. It 
caused a loss of expectation and upset. And I can see from the evidence available to 
me that much of the time it was Mr S family who contacted Aviva for updates, rather 
than it contacting them, even when they said that theyd like updates that there was 
no news to keep Mr S spirits up. Aviva also took about ten days to tell Mr S 
daughter that it was having difficulties contacting the treating hospital. Given the 
situation, I agree that Aviva couldve contacted Mrs S more often, even if to report 
that there was no news and to give her reassurance; I also note that theres evidence 
Mr S mental health was affected by the lack of updates. While money never truly 
compensates for trouble and upset, and I cant award anything for the wider familys 
suffering, I think £150 compensation is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs S by these failures and the failure to confirm 
the need to buy additional insurance (though it was known). I would note that the whole situation mustve been worrying and upsetting, but I can only award 
compensation for the trouble and upset attributable to Avivas failings Ive found. Its 
not my role to punish businesses.
 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr S complaint, 
Aviva Insurance Limited should:
Consider and pay the claim once all the evidence is provided under the terms and 
conditions of the policy with interest paid of 8% simple interest from the date of claim 
to the date of payment;
Pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman