DRN-3237301
The complaint
1. Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way that Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim 
under their home emergency insurance policy.
2. Mr J has largely been the main point of contact for matters relating to the claim.
3. Mrs J is a joint policyholder.
What happened
4. Theres a large amount of evidence relating to this matter. The following is a 
summary of the facts which I think are relevant to this complaint.
5. In July 2017 Mr and Mrs J made a claim to Aviva because they thought they had a 
blocked drain. 
6. Aviva sent an engineer to investigate. He didnt find any blockages. 
7. Over the next year or more Mr and Mrs J contacted Aviva on many occasions as 
there was still a problem with dampness in their basement. Aviva arranged several 
more investigations by various drainage experts.
8. In November 2018 Aviva told Mr and Mrs J it needed to remove the bath, sink and 
flooring in their basement bathroom, tunnel through the front wall of their house to 
get to a cracked rainwater gully in an inaccessible light well, install a new gully and 
reconnect to the existing run. 
9. Aviva thought this work would take three days and as a result Mr and Mrs J would 
have to stay elsewhere for two nights. At first it offered them hotel accommodation. 
Mr J said this wasnt suitable because of his disabilities. So Aviva agreed to pay for 
him to stay in a caravan which hed requested.
10. There was some discussion about who was responsible for reinstating the 
bathroom after this work had been done. Aviva said the reinstatement wasnt 
covered by its policy.
11. Mr and Mrs J tried without success to persuade their home insurer to accept 
responsibility for the reinstatement work.
12. In March 2020 the work was carried out. Avivas contractor dug down under the 
floor, repaired a leaking gully in the lightwell before filling in the hole with concrete 
and laying a screed on top.
13. Mr and Mrs J spent two weeks staying in a flat at a cost of £420 while the work 
was carried out.
14. Mr and Mrs J complained to Aviva about the number of visits that had been 
made to their property to find the cause of dampness in their basement and 
about the issues with alternative accommodation.
15. Mr J is a disabled consumer with a number of serious health issues.
16. Aviva apologised for the way it had handled the claim. It said it had awarded 
them a total of £820 compensation for the inconvenience caused. That included 
£420 for their accommodation costs.
17. As Mr and Mr J werent happy with Avivas response, they brought their 
complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint 
in part. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
18. In this complaint Im only looking at whether the amount of compensation awarded 
by Aviva was fair and reasonable for the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs J by 
the large number of visits made to locate the source of the leak and also whether its 
handling of their alternative accommodation was fair.
19.Between April 2017 and May 2018 Aviva arranged about ten visits by various leak 
and drainage specialists to Mr and Mrs Js home. It took about a year for Aviva to 
make a correct diagnosis of the problem with the drains.
20. Aviva did explain to Mr J at the outset that it might be a process of eliminating 
different potential causes of the dampness before it got to the heart of the problem. I 
accept thats a valid operating method when the solution is far from clear, as it was in 
this case. Nonetheless I do think that Aviva should have been able to make the 
correct diagnosis with fewer visits and in a shorter time.
21. Mr J had provided Aviva with information about his health and disability problems. Mr 
and Mrs J werent always kept informed of the position with regard to their claim. As a 
result Mr J constantly had to chase Aviva for information. This put them under 
unnecessary additional stress at a time when they would also have been worried 
about Mr Js health.
22. Under the policy with Aviva Mr and Mrs J were entitled to the following in respect of 
alternative accommodation:
23.If you are completely without water and we are unable to perform a same day 
repair/replacement, we will reimburse you for hotel costs (room only) up to £500.
24. I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs J were completely without water while 
the repair works were carried out. So, strictly speaking, Aviva wasnt obliged to 
reimburse them for their alternative accommodation costs. Nonetheless it appeared 
to be prepared to cover these costs.
25. Having read Mr Js explanation I can understand why hotel accommodation 
wouldnt be suitable for him and Mrs J. But I dont think this would have been 
obvious to Aviva. To its credit once it was made aware, Aviva agreed to cover the 
cost of a stay in a caravan although ultimately that was not the option chosen.
26. Aviva ended up paying for Mr and Mrs J to spend two weeks in a rented flat. This 
was more than they were entitled to under the policy and I think Aviva treated them 
fairly by paying for this.27. Aviva also paid for some other costs that werent covered by the policy as a gesture 
of goodwill. But even so I dont consider the compensation awarded by Aviva to be 
sufficient to reflect the trouble and upset caused by its poor handling of the claim. 
Taking everything into account (including the number of visits to Mr and Mrs Js 
home, the delay in finding the cause of the problem and the failure to keep them 
informed) I think the total sum of £1,250 to be appropriate and in line with awards 
made in other cases.
28. Aviva accepted my provisional findings.
29. Mr J made a number of points. In summary he said:
30. He and Mrs J had been without a bathroom rather than without water.
31. Avivas plumber had told them in writing that it would reinstate the bathroom. 
32. Mr J provided evidence that the bathroom hadnt been reinstated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
33. Im grateful to Mr J for providing information about his health issues and disability. I 
confirm that Ive taken this information into account when reaching my decision.
34. I appreciate that thankfully Mr and Mrs J still had a water supply in their property. I 
referred to the property being without water because strictly speaking under the policy 
wording Aviva was only obliged to offer alternative accommodation if theyd been without 
water in their property. Fortunately this wasnt an issue and Aviva offered them alternative 
accommodation anyway.
35. Mr and Mrs J made a separate complaint about the reinstatement of their bathroom. 
So I wont look at that as part of this complaint. Nonetheless Im sorry to see the state of 
their bathroom.
36. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me to change my provisional findings 
regarding the amount of compensation awarded by Aviva for the inconvenience caused to 
Mr and Mrs J by the large number of visits made to locate the source of the leak and also 
whether its handling of their alternative accommodation was fair. So my provisional 
findings now form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Aviva should pay total compensation of £1,250 (less the sum of 
£820 already paid) to Mr and Mrs J for the way their claim was handled. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay total compensation of 
£1,250 (less the sum of £820 already paid) to Mr and Mrs J for the way their claim was 
handled. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman