DRN-1589263
The complaint
Mr A complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) mishandled a partial 
early repayment he made on a hire purchase agreement he had for a car. He says BMWFS 
wrongly shortened the term of the agreement without his knowledge and contrary to his 
instructions resulting in the optional final payment falling unexpectedly due.
What happened
In March 2016 Mr A entered into a 48 month hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a 
new car. On the 48th month a final optional payment (the balloon payment) would fall due of 
around £25,000, but alternatively, Mr A could return the car.
Mr A says he chose this agreement because he wanted the flexibility of deciding to keep the 
car or not at the end of agreement. He also wanted to be able to make part payments to 
manage his monthly budget.
In January 2017 Mr A contacted BMWFS via its internet portal and asked for a quote for a 
partial repayment of £5,000. An email was sent to Mr A which set out the new payments and 
a reduced term. It said that payments could be made via the phone or directly via the bank. 
A quote letter setting out the same information was sent to Mr A.
Mr A says he noticed that the term of the agreement had been reduced by ten months, but 
he had simply wanted to reduce the monthly payments. He says he called BMWFS and 
explained that the partial early payment was only to be used to reduce the monthly 
repayments. 
Mr A arranged to make the payment of £5,000 in February 2017. BMWFS wrote to Mr A to 
acknowledge receipt of the payment. This letter set out that there would be 26 monthly 
payments to be made from March 2017, meaning that the agreement was still due to end 10 
months early. Mr A says he didnt look at this letter closely.
During the life of the agreement Mr A received a number of statements from BMWFS about 
his account. These statements all said that the term of the agreement was 48 months.
Mr A didnt receive either the six months to end of agreement or the three months to end 
of agreement letters which are usually provided by BMWFS. He says he was shocked to be 
contacted by his bank in May 2019 to inform him that there were insufficient funds in his 
bank to meet a requested payment. He discovered this was a request from BMWFS for the 
£25,000 balloon payment as the hire purchase agreement had come to an end. 
Mr A managed to divert funds to his account and cover the payment. He contacted BMWFS 
who said it hadnt made an error about the collection of this payment as the term of the 
agreement had been reduced by 10 months following the early partial repayment. They said 
Mr A could either return the car and pay any excess mileage fee or keep the car and borrow 
additional finance for 10 months. Mr A decided to keep the car and cover the payment 
himself. He complained to BMWFS that it hadnt followed his instructions.
BMWFS said it was unable to review a phone call made to it in February 2017 as it didnt 
keep calls for more than six months, but it said its records showed the part payment had 
been made to reduce the agreements term as requested by Mr A. It said its letter 
acknowledging the lump sum payment had set out there would be 26 monthly payments 
from March 2017 and that the balloon payment would then be taken the following month if 
the car wasnt returned.
BMWFS accepted that five statements had been sent to Mr A which said that the agreement 
was for 48 rather 38 months and that he hadnt received the end of contract letters sent out 
six and three months before the end of the contract. It said the partial payment hadnt been 
fully processed in terms of its communication with Mr A and so there was an error on the 
statements and in not sending out the letters.
BMWFS said that it was satisfied Mr A hadnt been financially disadvantaged by the way it 
had handled the partial repayment but, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered him £150 
compensation. This was for the communication errors with Mr As statements and the failure 
to send him the end of contract letters.
Mr A disagreed with BMWFSs decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think BMWFS 
had made any errors when processing Mr As repayment. He said that he appreciated there 
had been a misunderstanding, but he didnt think BMWFS had been aware of Mr As 
intentions to reduce the monthly payments and not the term.
Our investigator said that he thought the misunderstanding had been compounded by the 
error in the statements about the agreements term, and also by the failure to send the end 
of contract letters. But the offer of compensation had been fair and BMWFS wouldnt have 
foreseen the impact this would have had on Mr A.
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view. He said that BMWFS had failed to accurately 
record the changes to the agreement when he had made the early partial repayment and 
had breached its policy on collecting the final payment. Mr A said he had suffered substantial 
inconvenience and distress by the agreement ending unexpectedly 10 months early and 
having to cover the final payment.
BMWFS reviewed its compensation offer in light of Mr As comments and offered to increase 
it to £250 compensation. Mr A declined this amount and said it was still inadequate.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that there were some failings in the service provided by BMWFS to Mr A, but 
it isnt agreed between the parties that Mr A instructed BMWFS to reduce his monthly 
payments and not the agreements term when he made the early partial payment in 
February 2017.
Ive seen that when Mr A made his initial request to make the partial payment, he did so via 
BMWFSs internet portal, so he didnt speak to anyone. And the portal didnt allow Mr A to 
specify how he wanted an early part payment used, that is, to shorten the term or reduce the 
monthly payments. According to BMWFSs notes, which record any action taken on the 
account such as emails or phone calls received, this enquiry resulted in an email being sent out to him setting out that after the payment there would be 26 monthly payments at a 
slightly reduced amount (£10 per month less) and the balloon payment would fall to be taken 
in May 2019.
Ive also seen that a letter in similar terms was sent to Mr A, but this letter didnt specify May 
2019 as the month the balloon payment would fall due if the car wasnt returned. It said this 
final repayment would be payable one month after the last monthly repayment had been 
made, although it did set out there would be 26 monthly repayments from March 2017. This 
letter set out the monthly payments would now be £10 less. However, I cant say Mr A hadnt 
understood this quote because he said he noticed it was showing a reduction in the term of 
agreement, rather than the partial payment being used to lower monthly payments, and so 
had rung and spoken to BMWFS. He says he instructed BMWFS that he wanted the term of 
the agreement to remain the same.
Im not surprised BMWFS isnt able now to access that call as it is usual for a business to 
store recordings of calls for up to six months. Mr A also isnt able to provide any proof he 
called. Ive seen that BMWFS has no record in its notes that it spoke with Mr A on the 
telephone in February 2017. The notes from January 2017 say that it was agreed that when 
the part payment was made it was to be used to reduce the monthly payments only.
Where information is missing or contradictory then I have to decide what I think is the most 
likely thing to have happened. Here, Mr A made the part payment in February 2017, and 
BMWFS wrote to him and acknowledged that the payment had been received and paid into 
his account. This letter was in the same terms as the quote letter sent on in January 2017 
and again says there will be 26 monthly payments due from March 2017, and then the 
balloon payment would be payable a month after the final monthly instalment if the car 
wasnt returned. Mr A says he didnt really look at this letter, but I think its reasonable to 
have expected him to check its contents.
As the February 2017 letter acknowledging payment is in the same terms as the quote letter 
and, since the contact notes made by BMWFS regarding Mr As account have no record that 
he requested the early partial payment be used to reduce the monthly payments only, I think 
its more likely than not that Mr A didnt give this instruction to BMWFS. 
Mr A also doesnt appear to have noticed that, although his monthly payments reduced by 
£10 per month, this reduction was the same as quoted in the both the email and quote letter 
sent in January 2017 when the partial payment was to be used to reduce the term of the 
agreement.
While I dont think BMWFS did anything wrong in the way it applied Mr As partial early 
repayment to his account, it isnt disputed that there were errors in its subsequent 
communication with Mr A. The five statements sent to Mr A all said the agreement was for 
the original 48 months and the missing end of contract letters meant Mr A wasnt reminded 
that the final balloon payment would be payable in May 2019.
I can appreciate that BMWFS seeking that balloon payment when it did would have caused 
Mr A unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Ive also seen that BMWFS gave him options 
about what he could do to rectify the situation. Mr A chose to pay the amount outstanding 
and keep the car, though this meant an unexpected and unplanned moving of his funds.
Putting things right
Looking at the evidence I think the situation does merit compensation from BMWFS to Mr A 
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by the lack of end of contract letters 
and the error in the statements sent to him. However, when assessing the impact on Mr A 
Ive also seen that he benefited from the way the early partial repayment was applied to his account as it resulted in an interest rebate on the agreement so I cant say BMWFS put him 
at a financial disadvantage. 
In these circumstances I think the compensation offered by BMWFS to Mr A of £250 is fair 
and reasonable and I wouldnt ask it to pay more. Im therefore partially upholding Mr As 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr As complaint. Im asking BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited to pay the £250 compensation that it has offered for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by the errors in its communications with Mr 
A following his early partial repayment. If it has already paid this amount, then it need take 
no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman