DRN-2644088
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the £6,700 he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Between November 2018 and March 2019, Mr A made a series of faster payments using 
the counter services at one of Barclays branches.
Mr A thought he was making payments to an investment company, but later found out 
hed been the victim of a scam and had actually sent his money to a fraudster.
Mr A told Barclays what had happened and asked it to refund the £6,700. But the bank 
didnt think it was liable for his loss. Mr A raised a complaint as he felt Barclays shouldve 
warned him about the scam. He also said members of its branch staff had encouraged him 
to process the transfers, and he felt the bank was facilitating fraudulent activity. He believed 
his loss should be covered by the banks insurance.
Barclays said:
It did everything it was supposed to do when it was made aware Mr A had been 
the victim of a scam. This included contacting the beneficiary banks to see if any of 
his money remained, but it did not.
Mr A willingly made the payments and so it wasnt responsible for his losses and 
those werent covered by any type of insurance.
Mr A willingly made the payments and so it wasnt responsible for his losses and those 
werent covered by any type of insurance.
Mr A didnt think this was fair, so he referred his complaint to this service. But our 
investigator didnt think Barclays shouldve reasonably been expected to prevent the 
fraud. Mr A remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Mr A fell victim to a scam and I appreciate why he feels so strongly 
that his money should be returned to him. Im also sorry to hear that Mr A is experiencing 
financial difficulty and the impact this situation has had on him and his family. But having 
carefully considered everything hes told us, I cant fairly hold Barclays liable for his loss. 
Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of their account. And Ive taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But the matter doesnt end there, Ive also taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. And I consider Barclays should, fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks 
are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, follow the Banking Protocol where appropriate.
So I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr 
A when he asked it to make a number of payments via one of its branches, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
The disputed payments and interactions with branch staff
It is not in dispute that Mr A authorised the transfers himself. Because of this, Barclays had 
an obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive 
explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays shouldve been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
With this in mind, Ive looked carefully at Mr As bank statements for the months leading up 
to the disputed transactions. Having done so, I dont think the payments made as part of 
the scam were unusual or out of character given the way Mr A tended to use his account. 
In the months leading up to the fraud he made a number of cash machine withdrawals, 
branch counter deposits and faster payments which ranged in value and were sent to a 
number of different payees. And the payments he sent to the fraudster were not 
significantly differently such that I think they ought to have been a cause for concern for 
the branch staff who served Mr A, or which ought to have warranted further questioning 
before they were processed.
Having said that, Ive also taken into account that Mr A said he did have conversations 
with the branch staff who processed the transfers. The bank didnt make any notes about 
those conversations, but Barclays hasnt disputed they took place. And, in my experience, 
it isnt unusual for conversations to take place when payments are being made over the 
counter.
Mr A says the branch staff were encouraging and seemed interested in the investment 
opportunity and commented that they might enquire about it themselves. But I think this sounds more like general, polite conversation between a customer and a member of staff 
in a branch when processing a payment, rather than a specific encouragement to invest. 
Even if the bank had probed deeper into the type of investment, I think its more likely than 
not Mr A wouldve still made the payments. I say this taking into account that:
Mr A has explained that he was contacted a number of times by people pretending to 
be from the investment company, but he wasnt interested to start with. He changed his 
mind at some point and, before deciding to invest, did some research and found their 
website, which satisfied him the company was genuine. He says he also found 
information for the company directors and contacted them to reassure himself before 
investing.
Mr A has sent us emails he received from addresses which appeared to be from the 
company as well as an investment brochure that I think looks professional and 
convincing. He also says he was given access to an online trading account where 
he could see the growth of his investments each day.
Im satisfied the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  didnt 
publish any warnings about the investment company until May 2019, which is after Mr 
A made his payments.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM)
I appreciate Mr As says he was led to believe his £6,700 loss would be covered by 
insurance, but that isnt the case. Barclays was also correct when it said his loss 
isnt covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM)  the fraud he fell 
victim to occurred before the model came into effect and cannot be applied 
retrospectively.
Recovering Mr As money
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 say a payment service provider, in this case 
Barclays, should notify receiving banks about potential fraud immediately. But Barclays 
didnt do this until the day after Mr A told them hed been scammed. Unfortunately, by 
that time none of Mr As money remained.
It had been several months since Mr A had made the payments to the scammer, so I dont 
think it likely wouldve made a difference if Barclays had taken action the day Mr A 
reported the scam. I say this because its a common for scammers to remove money from 
the receiving account as quickly as possible, before the victim of fraud realises what has 
happened.
I should also point out that the accounts Mr A sent his money to were held with different 
financial providers, and so the operation of those accounts were beyond Barclays 
control.
Overall, and in all the circumstances, I dont think that Barclays should be held 
responsible for Mr As losses, so it wouldnt be fair for me to tell it to refund his money.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021. Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman