DRN-1520660
 
The complaint
 Mrs A complains about Vitality Health Limited.  
What happened
Following the unfortunate passing of her husband, Mrs A, who had been covered via a policy 
in his name as well, wanted a continuation policy in her name, which covered more 
hospitals. At first Vitality said this was possible, but then said no. Mrs A offered not to be 
covered for a certain condition under the increased cover but this didn't alter Vitality's 
decision. Mrs A complained to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter but did not uphold the complaint. 
They thought Vitality had made a mistake, but weren't bound by that, and that the apology 
and small compensation Vitality had offered was enough. Mrs A didn't agree and asked for 
an ombudsman to review the case, so it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too won't be upholding the complaint. I'll explain why. 
It is clear that Vitality did give Mrs A wrong information when she first asked for the upgrade 
in hospital cover. That's regrettable but a single mistake like that wouldn't normally bind an 
organisation to give cover based on the mistake, and I think that's the case here.  Vitality 
also made a call to Mrs A on a day when she had asked them not to call, that is regrettable 
too.
I note that Vitality did apologise and offer some small compensation for these errors, which 
Mrs A didn't accept. But I think that was enough. Simple mistakes aren't usually legally 
binding and as I can't see any evidence that Mrs A acted to her detriment, such as turning 
down cover elsewhere that would have provided the upgrade element, I don't think any other 
compensation is due. 
I would like to comment on another matter as well. I note Mrs A did ask to meet me 
concerning this decision. That wouldn't be our usual practice, as almost all cases are 
decided on the papers as part of our informal process, and if a consumer would prefer a face 
to face hearing the courts may be a better option. However, the current virus situation would 
make such a meeting impractical. I would assure Mrs A that I have listened to her calls with 
our office and don't think there is much that could be added to my understanding of the 
issues by a meeting. 
In conclusion, I do think Vitality made a mistake here re the initial response to upgraded 
cover and another customer service error. But they have apologised and offered 
compensation for that. I know Mrs A hasn't accepted that but I think they have done enough. In particular, they aren't legally bound by the upgrade issue error they made in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
 I make no award against Vitality Health Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
 
Chris Tilson
Ombudsman