DRN-1936377
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc has paid them for a 
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.  
Mr and Mrs H booked a holiday. They were due to travel as part of a party of five, which had 
booked a three-bedroom villa to stay in. Mr and Mrs H and one other person were insured by 
their policy.
Unfortunately, due a family bereavement, Mr and Mrs H had to cancel their trip. They made 
a claim on their travel insurance policy.
AXA accepted the claim and agreed to settle it. Mr and Mrs Hs airline refunded the flight 
costs. So AXA refunded car parking costs of £110 and it paid Mr and Mrs H their share of 
the accommodation costs - £2419.20. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with the settlement. They said theyd need a two-bedroom villa 
rather than a three-bedroom one for the three people insured by the policy if they rebooked 
their trip. But the cost of rebooking a two-bedroom villa was around £3700, meaning the 
settlement theyd received wouldnt cover the cost of rebooking the holiday. They felt AXA 
should pay them sufficient money for their claim so they could book a two-bedroom villa. 
They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had done anything wrong in the way itd calculated the 
settlement. He thought AXA had settled Mr and Mrs Hs claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. He felt AXA had put Mr and Mrs H in the financial position they were 
in before the claim. He said the policy didnt cover potential differences in cost between the 
original and new bookings.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They felt that their direct loss was the cost of booking a two-
bedroom rather than a three-bedroom villa. They said they werent looking to make a profit 
from the claim, simply the cost of rebooking the holiday based on three occupants.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXA has settled Mr and Mrs Hs claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The cancellation and curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Hs policy explains how AXA settles 
cancellation claims. So Ive looked closely at the policy wording. It says:
What is covered 
We will pay You up to £10,000 (inclusive of any valid claims payable under Sections K  Ski 
pack and Section Q  Travel disruption cover) for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other prepaid charges 
(including green fees of up to £75 per day, up to a maximum of £300) which You have paid 
or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred 
if: 
a. cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable (Emboldened text is my 
emphasis).
I think the policy clearly sets out AXAs contractual responsibilities under this section. It 
explains that AXA will pay for a policyholders irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs - which theyve already paid for or have a contract to pay for - at the 
point of cancellation. It doesnt cover future losses, or potential price differences in future 
trips.
Mr and Mrs H and a third member of their travelling party were insured by this policy. Ive 
looked carefully at the original holiday booking invoice. Five people were booked and had 
paid to stay in a three-bedroom villa. The villa cost a total of £4032 for five people. This 
means it cost £806.40 per person. AXA has multiplied this amount by three (the number of 
people insured by the policy) which gives a total amount of £2419.20. This is the amount 
AXA has settled for the accommodation part of Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
I appreciate this settlement doesnt reflect the cost of Mr and Mrs H rebooking their trip to 
stay in a two-bedroom villa, which is now all they need. But the purpose of insurance is to 
put a policyholder in the financial position they were in before the loss happened. In this 
case, AXA has paid Mr and Mrs H for their share of the pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation costs for the holiday they cancelled. And Im satisfied its calculation 
appears accurate. So I think AXA has fairly indemnified Mr and Mrs H for their actual 
cancellation costs and has settled their claim in line with the policy terms.
While Im sorry to hear about the bereavement Mr and Mrs H suffered, Im not directing AXA 
to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman