DRN-2334746
The complaint
 M, a limited company complains that Santander UK Plc, was responsible for delays in 
processing the transfer of one of its properties to a Self-Invested Personal Pension Scheme 
(SIPP).   
 
In bringing the complaint M is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr Y
What happened
 M owned a commercial property which was mortgaged to Santander.  
The loan facility was due for renewal in April 2019. Mr Y has told us M wanted to sell the 
property and redeem its outstanding Santander loan before the April renewal date. The 
proposed purchaser was a SIPP which belonged to Mr Y and his wife. The SIPPs purchase 
was to be funded through a fresh loan provided by Santander. 
Mr Y says that in December 2018, he discussed the proposals with Santander, including the 
timescale by which the refinancing needed to be completed. 
In February 2019, Ms loan facility was extended for an extra three months beyond the April 
renewal date. Santander says that was because it didnt seem there would be enough time 
for the loan to the SIPP to be approved. However, the loan to the SIPP was approved in 
April 2019. And its purchase of the property from M completed three months later in July 
2019 when Ms loan was redeemed. 
M didnt think the refinance should have taken so long to complete. In other words, 
approximately seven months from the time Mr Y had initial discussions with Santander in 
December 2018 to July 2019. So, M complained. It argued the main reasons for the delay 
were: 
An over worked relationship manager, who gave less priority to the SIPP application.
Failure by Santander to take into account that M had recently undertaken a similar 
refinance transaction. So, rather than start the legal process afresh, Santander 
should have used the same lawyers to review the file on that earlier transaction to 
determine whether anything had changed that might impact its security, 
The lawyers Santander instructed lacked the relevant experience and expertise to 
deal with the transaction. That inexperience led to spurious and unnecessary queries 
being raised with its lawyers which caused its legal costs to increase. 
M said it had to continue paying corporation tax during the months of delay for which 
Santander should be responsible. 
Santander didnt think they had done anything wrong. They said borrowing applications are 
unique, and they have to make sure theyre lending responsibly. Therefore, they dont 
commit to a guaranteed timescale to complete such applications. They believe the SIPP 
application progressed reasonably quickly in any event and that much of the time it took to 
complete it was attributable to risk-based underwriting. Santander said they acted 
appropriately in the appointment of the surveyors and lawyers that were used in the 
refinance transaction.
M didnt accept Santanders conclusions and referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms complaint. He wasnt persuaded there were avoidable 
delays for which Santander were responsible.  
The investigator acknowledged that it took a little over four months from the discussions in 
December 2018 to formal approval of the SIPPs loan facility in April 2019. But he concluded 
that during the first three months, from December 2018 to March 2019 the SIPPs proposed 
borrowing was being considered by both parties. And he didnt think Santander knew the 
extent of the facility the SIPP needed until Mr Y confirmed this in March 2019. 
And in relation to the period following the approval of the loan through to the completion of 
the sale of the property to the SIPP, the investigator didnt think there were material delays 
either. He thought that period was largely taken up with the appointment of valuers and 
lawyers and their completion of the necessary work to ensure Santander had appropriate 
security for their proposed lending to the SIPP. 
M didnt accept the investigators conclusions. On its behalf Mr Y produced a gantt 
chart to indicate that if everything had been actioned in a timely manner the 
refinancing would have completed much sooner. Mr Y also produced testimonies 
from a property professional, a former Santander bank manager and a lawyer in 
support of the proposition the time taken by Santander was excessive. 
In picking up the complaint, I agreed with the outcome investigator recommended, 
but it was for different reasons. So, I wrote to M and to Santander on 11 May 2021 
setting out those reasons. I gave both parties until 25 May 2021 to respond with any 
further points. 
In my e-mail to both parties I said: 
What is at the heart of Ms complaint is that the failure to properly handle the process of 
purchasing [the property] by the SIPP - including the funding application, the assessment as 
to whether the property offered suitable security for Santanders lending caused 
unnecessary delays which in turn led to the losses M wishes to recover. 
And in essence it is Santanders case that the underwriting of the SIPPs loan application 
from a risk perspective accounted for a large part of the time taken to complete the purchase 
transaction.
Im satisfied that under our rules M is an eligible complainant. It had a relationship with 
Santander arising from the fact M was provided with lending facilities to purchase [the 
property] which, in turn, Santander held as security for that facility.  
But for M to be able claim any financial loss arising from something Santander did wrong, 
the loss must have arisen from the circumstances of their relationship. Im afraid Im not 
persuaded at the moment that is in fact the position in respect of this claim. In other words, 
Im not yet satisfied that the financial loss M is claiming from Santander arose from the 
circumstances of its own relationship with Santander. 
I say this because much of what M says Santander did wrong and which caused it to suffer 
financial loss, took place within the context of the SIPPs funding application to Santander. 
But Im afraid thats a matter for the SIPP alone and not M. 
I appreciate its Ms case it was impacted by what went wrong in that process, for example 
extra corporation tax liability on account of the delays. But anything that went wrong in the 
application process by the SIPP which may have resulted matters taking longer than M regards as reasonable, theres no alleged loss we can award to M because in the context of 
that transaction it wasnt a customer of Santander. 
So, for the reasons Ive explained above I am minded to find that M did not suffer a loss 
arising from its relationship with Santander. Its claim is for a financial loss and extra legal 
fees arising from events associated with the relationship between the SIPP and Santander. It 
is for those reasons Im not minded to uphold Ms complaint. 
Santander had nothing further they wished to add. 
On behalf of M, Mr Y said he accepts the SIPP was the proposed borrower in this case 
whereas it was M who suffered a loss from the delay in the approving the SIPPs funding. 
But Mr Y wanted to know whether, as the owners of M and the SIPP, he and his wife could 
bring the complaint personally as a way of avoiding the jurisdiction obstacles I pointed out. 
      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In doing so I havent changed the conclusions I was minded to reach when I wrote to M and 
Santander on 11 May 2021. Ill explain why.   
For me to uphold Ms complaint I needed to be satisfied it suffered a loss that did arise from 
the circumstances of its relationship with Santander. 
Mr Y has accepted that the financial and loss M wants to claim from Santander arose from 
the perceived delay in approving the SIPP funding. What that means is that Ms loss arose 
from a transaction in respect of which it wasnt a customer of Santander. Therefore, for the 
reasons I set out in my 11 May 2021 Im unable to uphold its complaint. 
Mr Y has asked whether in view of the link both he and his wife have to M and the SIPP as 
owners, they could bring the complaint to our service. However, M is a limited company with 
a separate legal identity from Mr Y and his wife. Therefore, since the loss would still be one 
that M is alleged to have suffered, Mr Y and his wife couldnt bring a complaint personally, 
since they wouldnt have suffered the financial loss they would be seeking to recover
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman