DRN-4230251
The complaint
Mrs K complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege havent correctly applied the 
terms of their policy which apply when a boiler is deemed beyond economic repair (BER).   
       
What happened
Mrs K holds a heating cover insurance policy with Privilege which offers a £250 contribution 
to a new boiler if it is deemed BER. 
During an annual boiler service in January with her own engineer,  Mrs K was advised that 
her boiler was leaking carbon monoxide and the engineer disconnected the boiler saying it 
was condemned.  
Mrs K contacted Privilege and they said their own engineer would need to attend to see if it 
was BER. The engineer attended but was unable to assess the boiler without reconnecting it 
- which was a health and safety risk. He told Mrs K that the boiler was irreparable and 
offered to quote her privately for a new one.
Mrs K then arranged for installation of her new boiler and sent the quotes to Privilege as 
requested by them.   
Privilege refused to pay Mrs Ks claim, saying their engineer couldnt complete an 
assessment of BER because the boiler had previously been condemned and he couldnt turn 
it on to check as it was a health risk. 
Privilege say that they will only pay the £250 if the boiler is deemed BER by one of their own 
engineers.     
Mrs K was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ks complaint and he thought Privilege should 
pay the £250 contribution. 
   
Privilege disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to decide is whether Privilege have complied with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and acted fairly in the way they have dealt with the claim. 
The policy says:
The  policy  states  the following:  If we find out your boiler  is beyond  
economic  repair,  we will pay £250  towards  the cost of a new one.
Beyond economic repair (BER) is defined in the policy as 
When the cost of repairing your boiler exceeds 85% of the manufacturers current 
retail price (or if this is not available, the average current retail price available through 
leading UK suppliers) for a boiler of the same or similar make and model to your 
boiler.
Privilege say that they cannot be sure that the boiler was BER because when their own 
engineer attended the property, he was unable to make that assessment as the boiler was 
already disconnected. Similarly they say they havent received any evidence from Mrs Ks 
own engineer that the boiler was BER within the definition provided in their terms and 
conditions. 
Although they accept that Mrs Ks own engineer had disconnected it because it was spilling 
carbon monoxide, they say that a boiler being at risk or immediately dangerous doesnt 
mean it cant be repaired  and so it may not have been BER. 
I agree with the investigator that the policy wording doesnt specify that the BER assessment 
has to be completed by one of their own engineers. And so I dont think it would matter if the 
BER assessment had been made by Mrs Ks engineer, as long as it was in line with the 
definition of BER in the policy. 
However, Mrs K wasnt told that she needed a BER assessment from her own engineer to 
make a claim. In the initial call she was just told that one of Privileges engineers would need 
to check it. 
It was January and I can understand why Mrs K would want her boiler replacing as soon as 
possible after she discovered it was condemned, and why she went ahead with the 
replacement shortly after the engineers visit.  
So, whilst Im satisfied no proper BER assessment was carried out either by Mrs Ks 
engineer, or Privileges engineer, I dont think the need for this in order to claim was properly 
explained to Mrs K. 
In addition, Privileges engineer came to the property, saw the boiler, and had the 
opportunity to examine it and establish if it was in fact repairable. He chose not to reconnect 
it and make that assessment and no one explained to Mrs K what the impact of that would 
be. I accept that the engineer may have felt there was a safety issue in reconnecting the 
boiler, but I dont think that it is fair for Privilege to decline the claim because their own 
contractor was unable to make the assessment. Mrs K couldnt have asked her own 
engineer to leave the boiler connected and leaking poisonous gas just so that Privileges 
own contractor could assess it. 
Im satisfied that Mrs K has followed Privileges instructions and done everything that she 
can to ensure that she complied with the policy terms for a claim, and it is therefore fair and 
reasonable for Privilege to pay her the £250 towards the cost of a new boiler. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Privilege should pay Mrs K
£250 towards the cost of her new boiler
8% interest on that sum from the date the claim was declined until the date of 
settlement.  My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint, and direct UK Insurance Limited trading as 
Privilege to put things right as above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman