DRN-3174842
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the settlement proposed by Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) for their home accidental damage insurance claim, and the way that 
the claim has been handled more generally.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to the parties and I dont intend to repeat them in 
detail here. In summary, following an accident in their home, some floor tiles were damaged 
and the underfloor heating in the same area stopped working. 
Mr and Mrs C are very unhappy with the way that the claim has been handled. And it is now 
about two and half years since the accident occurred. Various contractors, surveyors, 
electricians, loss adjusters and loss assessors have been involved. And several increased 
offers have been made by LV to settle the claim over time. Mr and Mrs C dont consider that 
the current offer fully indemnifies them for their loss.
The room concerned has an inside / outside aspect where the same tiles used inside have 
also been used on the outside terrace. Mr and Mrs C consider that LV should be responsible 
for replacing all the tiles, and not just make a 50% contribution to the outside work on 
matching sets principles. They are also unhappy with the amount of LVs offer, as this is 
considerably less than what theyve been quoted for the work by their own contractor.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. At the time she 
looked at it, both Mr and Mrs C and LV accepted her proposed outcome, which involved LV 
seeking to lift the tiles, repair the underfloor heating and then repair any damage caused. If a 
repair wasnt possible, the tiles were to be replaced and a 50% contribution to the outside 
tiling would be payable as well. £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by LVs 
handling of the claim was paid. And some compensation was agreed for the additional 
electricity costs that Mr and Mrs C say theyd incurred whilst the underfloor heating wasnt 
working.
Mr C was certain that a repair wouldnt be possible. But he reluctantly agreed to the 
proposed redress. When LVs new contractor attended, they immediately concluded that a 
repair wouldnt work and that all the tiles would need to be removed and replaced.
Mr and Mrs C had completely lost confidence in LV and its agents. So, after Mr C contacted 
LV direct, it made a further offer to settle this complaint. This involved a cash offer to settle 
the claim for the cost LV would incur in getting its contractor to do the work, a 50% 
contribution to the outside tiling, the cost of removal and storage, a contingency fund, the 
cost of cleaning and VAT on everything. To that it added an amount for the additional 
electricity used and a further £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. In total, 
the offer was just over £34,000.
Mr and Mrs C considered this offer to be way short of what it would cost them to do the work. 
Their contractor had quoted around £66,000 plus VAT. And as that quote was obtained 
about two years before, with inflation and the increase in cost of materials, they considered 
LV should pay them around £95,000 to get the work done.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter came to me for decision. In advance of this 
final decision, I issued a provisional decision in which I said I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs 
Cs complaint, although I thought that the recent settlement offer made by LV now amounted 
to fair compensation.
Mr and Mrs C responded to say that whilst they disagreed with me, in order to bring what 
had been quite an ordeal for them to an end, they would reluctantly accept LVs offer. LV has 
since made arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs C and has confirmed that it has no comments 
on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said: 
I was very sorry to hear about the difficulties that Mr and Mrs C have had with this claim. 
What should have been a much simpler and shorter claims journey, has been turned into a 
two-and-a-half-year saga. During that time, Mr and Mrs C have had two winters where not all 
their underfloor heating has been working. And theyve had to rely on portable heaters 
instead. But the main cause of upset here has been the frustration experienced by Mr C 
when his concerns about the cause of the underfloor heatings failure and the method of 
fixing it were effectively ignored by LV.
I dont think its necessary to go over old ground into what went wrong in terms of the 
settlement of this claim. LV have now accepted the claim for both the tiles and underfloor 
heating, although the settlement for the outside tiling is still disputed, LV having offered 50% 
of the cost.
LV has blamed the customers poor experience on the action of its agents (for which it must 
take responsibility) and has recently apologised to Mr and Mrs C. However, having read 
through everything that happened here, fault also lay with the way that LV handled this claim 
internally. Once a complaint had been made to this Service, LV effectively washed its hands 
of trying to look for a compromise, preferring to leave it to our investigator to suggest a 
solution. It was slow in its responses to us, which in turn frustrated Mr C further as the claim 
dragged on.
Id remind LV that just because a complaint is with our Service, that doesnt mean that the 
parties cant continue to attempt to resolve it outside of our process. And it ultimately took Mr 
Cs further calls to more senior people at LV, before responsibility was accepted and a new 
offer was made. This offer was considerably more than what had been on the table before.
The above said, as an offer has now been made, I must consider whether this amounts to 
fair compensation. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C and LV are considerably apart in terms of 
what they are respectively prepared to accept, and pay, for this claim. And I appreciate that 
my proposed decision may well be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C, given that I think that the 
offer LV has now made is a fair one. But Ill explain below why Ive come to that conclusion.
One of the main points of contention here has been whether the tiles should be replaced 
both inside and out. Ive helpfully been provided with some pictures of Mr and Mrs Cs house 
and the respective tiling. LV wanted to carry out a repair. With the benefit of hindsight, I 
agree with Mr C that a repair was unlikely to be possible, given the need to take the tiles up 
to determine the fault with the underfloor heating. And the bespoke way in which theyve 
been laid. So, whilst it wasnt unreasonable for our investigator to recommend that LV be entitled to attempt a repair, a replacement was always on the cards here.
I appreciate that the tiling was chosen to provide an inside / outside room effect. Where the 
same tiles were used on the terrace too. When considering matching sets claims, our normal 
approach, which is reflected in LVs policy terms, is for the insurer to pay a 50% contribution 
toward any adjacent room, where the floor covering is the same and there is no delineation 
between the two. Here, Mr and Mrs Cs terrace is separated from the house by bi-fold doors. 
These have a raised runner profile. And in my view do not seamlessly connect with the 
outside. The grouting used for the outside tiling appears to be different. And it has, not 
unsurprisingly, weathered  as have the tiles - given the terrace is exposed to the elements.
So, but for LVs offer to contribute 50% of the cost of the outside tiling, which I consider it 
must honour, this isnt a case where I would have made it pay for the terrace too. So that 
means that almost half of Mr and Mrs Cs contractors estimate isnt something that I would 
have required LV to pay in this claim.
Ive also considered the additional electricity usage that Mr and Mrs C say that they have 
incurred. I was quite surprised by the amount of electricity that Mr and Mrs Cs house uses. 
This might, I suspect, be a product of them having underfloor heating throughout the house. 
But in the winter, their bills indicate that in January alone, they used over 4,000 kWh. I note 
that the bills provided are in the name of Mr and Mrs Cs company, so there may be some 
corporate use here too. LV has offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £5 a day for the additional 
electricity. Its based this on our investigators calculation, and the total offer was almost 
£5,000, before taking off the £600 odd already paid.
Whilst LV must, I think, honour its offer, I dont entirely agree with our investigators 
calculation. Due to the lack of information available, our investigator used Mr and Mrs Cs 
summer bills, before the incident, to compare against their winter usage afterwards. So, 
unsurprisingly, the usage appeared much higher. LV partially recognised this in the offer that 
its made, although when I looked at the bills, I didnt think that the comparable periods do 
show a higher usage anywhere near the £5 a day offered. In fact, the usage in January 2021 
was very similar to that in January 2019, for which we now have comparable bills.
Ive compared LVs schedule of works with the estimate provided by Mr and Mrs C. And 
excluding the external tiling, I do think these are comparable. LV can clearly get better rates 
from its contractors than Mr and Mrs C may be able to obtain. And Im not surprised that Mr 
and Mrs C dont want LVs contractors to do the work, given whats gone on here. So, the 
only viable way for this claim to be paid now is through a cash settlement.
LV wants to pay its contractors rates. And Mr and Mrs C want their contractors rates plus 
an uplift for inflation. LV has said that their contractors schedule of works was done in 
November this year, so takes account of any inflation. Mr and Mrs C are right that their 
contractors estimate may be a bit out of date too. But given the additional amounts offered 
by LV for both the electricity usage and the outside tiling contribution (almost £10,000)  
which I dont consider they had to offer - I think these more than make up for any difference 
between the quotes, as well as inflation. What LV are now offering in total is similar to what 
Mr and Mrs Cs contractors have quoted for the internal works only.
I would usually say that LV would be entitled to pay its contractors rates when cash settling 
a claim. But here, due to the breakdown in relationships, this isnt a question of Mr and Mrs 
C requesting a cash settlement, they are, I think, only fairly and reasonably entitled to one. 
LV has offered to pay the VAT upfront as part of that cash settlement, whereas normally this 
would only be payable when the cost has been incurred and invoiced. But I think its fair for 
LV to pay this upfront here too as it has offered. So, if Mr and Mrs C dont end up having 
quite as much work done to their floor, or get a cheaper quote, they will effectively have received VAT that they may have otherwise not been entitled to.
LV has also now included the removal costs and added a £2,500 contingency. This was the 
right thing to do as well. So, overall, LVs offer is just over £34,000. When comparing this to 
Mr and Mrs Cs estimate, without the outside area, this is comparable. I dont think a 20% 
uplift on their quote is reasonable here. I appreciate whats involved with this work, but I do 
think from the evidence that Ive seen that Mr and Mrs Cs contractors quote was a little on 
the high side in any event.
LVs offer also includes an additional £500 for the trouble and upset its actions / inaction 
have caused Mr and Mrs C. So that makes a total of £1,000, when taking into account the
£500 it has already paid. Considering the awards we make in similar situations, this is, I 
think, a reasonable offer. Mr and Mrs C were understandably upset by this whole affair. 
Theyve also had to rely on unsightly portable heaters. But unlike a lot of the complaints 
we see, theyve not been living in a building site, or had to leave their home. Our awards 
arent intended to punish businesses. And I consider that £1,000 is fair compensation here 
for the way LV and its agents actions will have made Mr and Mrs C feel and the 
inconvenience to which theyve been put.
So, in summary, whilst I do agree that Mr and Mrs C have been treated very badly here, 
and I appreciate that they had hoped for a greater financial settlement, I do think that LVs 
offer is fair. 
As Mr and Mrs C have now accepted the offer and LV have made arrangements to pay 
them, I dont consider that my provisional findings need to change. So, I adopt them in full 
in this final decision. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I consider that Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limiteds cash settlement offer for this complaint amounts to fair 
compensation and, if it has not already, I require that it pay Mr and Mrs C the sum of      
£34,339.83.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman