DRN-2425687
The complaint
Mr B complains about National House-Building Council (NHBC)s handling of his claim under 
his building warranty.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From looking at everything both sides have said, there are a number of issues that exist 
between NHBC and Mr B. Many of these either dont relate to the claims covered in this 
complaint, or Im unable to comment on them as they dont fall within this services 
jurisdiction. My decision refers to the two claim references referred to in our investigators 
view, which I cant name here for confidentiality reasons. And it covers events that happened 
between the final responses issued in August 2018 and May 2019.
I understand Mr B has strong views about what has happened, and I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised, 
as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr B and by NHBC to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Both sides seem to be in agreement about a cash settlement being issued for Mr Bs 
claims. And considering the circumstances, I think this seems reasonable. The 
settlement should be based on what it would reasonably cost for Mr B to arrange the 
repairs himself. However, NHBC will need to be allowed to validate the claim  so 
quotes will need to be provided for them to assess. Mr B will also need to be aware 
that it would be reasonable for NHBC to request a range of quotes.
Due to the number of issues and claims that exist between NHBC and Mr B, I do 
appreciate its been hard to manage  for both parties. But I do think there were 
times where NHBC couldve acted quicker, been more proactive or done more in 
managing the claim. In August 2018 NHBC wrote to Mr B about arranging to visit his 
property to clearly establish which items were still outstanding. However, Im not 
persuaded NHBC were proactive in trying to arrange this with Mr B. So the claim 
didnt progress. When the meeting finally took place in April 2019, Mr B believed it 
was to address all the issues he had, not just those relating to this claim, so the 
meeting ended. NHBC said they set out the purpose of the meeting in August 2018. 
But given the time that had passed and considering the number of issues discussed 
in the meantime, I think NHBC couldve done more to remind Mr B of the purpose of 
the meeting
NHBC said Mr B told them he was planning to take legal action during the meeting in 
April 2019. NHBC said they didnt continue with managing the claim through their 
resolution service as this cannot run alongside legal action. But I cant see anything 
to suggest Mr B did take legal action  or that, aside from a verbal comment during 
what on the balance of information available, looks like couldve been a contentious 
meeting, suggests Mr B did bring any type of legal action. So until he did, I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for NHBC to continue to attempt to progress the claim - or 
at least further clarify this with Mr B, but I cant see anything to suggest this 
happened
Considering everything Ive set out above I think NHBC should pay Mr B £500 
compensation as it fairly reflects inconvenience Mr B has been caused  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
To put things right, I direct National House-Building Council to:
Pay Mr B £500 compensation
Provide a cash settlement for items listed and related to the two claim references 
dealt with under this complaint, based on cost to Mr B. This will be subject to Mr B 
providing quotes and NHBC validating them 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman