DRN-3955101
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Nationwide Building Societys actions led to them losing out on a
better fixed interest rate on their mortgage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them here.
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have a mortgage with Nationwide. In February 2022 Nationwide sent them a
letter to say their fixed rate was coming to an end in May 2022 and that they could apply for
a new fixed rate. Mr and Mrs B consider the letter was misleading. They say, amongst other
things, it didnt make clear the rates set out in the letter could change. Mr and Mrs B say
they would have chosen a two-year fixed rate at 1.49% had they properly understood things.
Ive reviewed the letter. I find it contained all the information I would expect. It set out what
the position was, that the mortgage would move to a standard variable rate when the fixed
rate ended, and Mr and Mrs B could apply to switch to a new rate now. It set out next steps.
And it set out the rates available at the time and said those rates could change.
I accept Mr and Mrs B dont consider the letter clear and have pointed out aspects of it which
they think could be better defined or more prominent. But Im not aware of this letter, which
is templated, causing others similar issues. And I find the letter was clear, fair and not
misleading.
In March 2022 Mrs B called Nationwide to complain that the rates had changed from those
set out in the February 2022 letter. Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide didnt make clear enough 
in this call the rates could change again and say Nationwide said the rates wouldnt change 
if they booked a new rate by the end of the month. They say had things been clearer in the 
call they would have known to book a new fixed rate straightaway.
Ive listened to a recording of this call. Mrs B said the rate she was being offered was now
1.84%, fixed for two-years. Nationwide didnt say the rates couldnt change again and it was
a complaint call, and the nature of the complaint - that rates had changed - made it clear
Mrs B knew (or ought reasonably to have known) further rate changes could occur. Nor did
Nationwide provide any guarantees about rates not changing by the end of the month.
Mr and Mrs B took out a two-year fixed rate at 2.14% in late March 2022. I can understand
their frustration as this rate is higher than it could have been had they applied to switch
earlier. While I sympathise, it was for Mr and Mrs B to manage their mortgage, Nationwides
letter provided clear information about their options, and Nationwide provided clear enough
information in the March 2022 call. It follows Im not persuaded Nationwide treated them
unfairly or unreasonably and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman