DRN-2698431
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about her let property insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc as it has 
avoided her policy (treated it as though it has never existed) and, by association, declined 
her claim made following a fire.
What happened
Mrs P arranged cover on-line with AXA in December 2016. AXA says she was asked to 
confirm whether or not her property was of standard construction. AXA says that when this 
question is asked information in a pop-up box is readily visible and this explains what it 
means by standard construction. Mrs P says she didnt see the information. She answered 
yes.
In May 2019 there was a fire at the property. Mrs P made a claim to AXA. It noted the 
property comprised a large flat roof, made of timber and felt, which doesnt meet its definition 
of standard construction. It reckoned this made up about 35% of the total roofed area. It 
referred to its underwriting department which confirmed that, in line with the pop-up box, only 
small (less than 20% of the overall area), non-standard roofs are acceptable to it. It told 
Mrs P it was avoiding her policy and wouldnt, therefore, be continuing her claim.
Mrs P complained to AXA. The parties argued in detail. Not least about which legislation 
applies in Mrs Ps situation (the Insurance Act 2015 or the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012, also known as CIDRA). When AXA wouldnt change its 
mind about the avoidance, Mrs P complained to us.
Our investigator felt the applicable law was the Insurance Act 2015, but felt this didnt 
absolve AXA from needing to ask Mrs P a clear question. And he felt the question  without 
the definition given by the pop-up box, which was often, AXA had conceded, only visible by 
clicking on a hyper-link  was unclear. He said AXA should remove the record of the 
avoidance, reinstate the policy and consider the claim.
AXA said it disagreed with the findings. It said hyper-links are often used and Mrs P should 
have known to follow it. But, in any event, our investigator hadnt addressed the concerns it 
had raised about Mrs P needing, under the Insurance Act, to make a fair presentation to it. 
When the complaint came to me, I felt it should be considered in light of the consumer 
legislation  CIDRA. I explained why to both parties and what I felt AXA needed to do to 
resolve matters.
Mrs P said she had nothing further to add. AXA objected to my findings. Amongst other 
things AXA objected to the reasoning I had given for viewing the complaint in light of CIDRA. 
I accepted AXAs concerns about the legislation  but still felt that it was reasonable to view 
this complaint in light of what that consumer legislation would allow because Mrs P, in my 
view, was akin to a consumer. I shared my revised reasoning with both parties. The key 
findings from my provisional and revised findings were:
which legislation applies?
This service often gives consideration to whether or not its fair to treat an individual as a 
commercial customer. This means that we wont always say that the commercial legislation 
should be followed, even if the consumer legislation doesnt apply. Rather well consider if 
the individual is unsophisticated,  or akin to a consumer. Where we find that to be the case, 
well often think its fair to apply the rules set out by the consumer legislation.
In my view, Mrs P is not what this service would consider to be a sophisticated customer. 
She is employed in a job that is not related to property management and lets just one 
property. I dont think she is any more well versed in insurance matters than your average 
consumer. So I still think its fair to consider her complaint in light of the rules which apply to 
consumers. Which means Im not minded to change my approach on this complaint by 
reviewing it against the Insurance Act 2015.
what does CIDRA say?
CIDRA requires a prospective policyholder to take reasonable care not to make any 
misrepresentation to the insurer when applying for cover. If a misrepresentation is made 
which is a qualifying misrepresentation then the insurer will be allowed to take certain action.
Whether the prospective policyholder did misrepresent the situation will depend largely on 
whether the question asked by the insurer was clear and/or specific enough to elicit from the 
reader what it really was the insurer wanted to know. 
what did AXA ask?
 
AXA asked if Mrs Ps property was of standard construction. That seems like a 
straightforward question. And Mrs P had a purchase survey which said the property was of 
standard construction. But AXA had a specific definition for this phrase in mind. What it really 
wanted to know about, in short, was whether the property was built with brick walls and tiled 
roofs, or if some roofs werent tiled, that they equated to less than 20% of the roof area. But 
that definition was only shared with the prospective policyholder by virtue of a pop-up box.
This service has long held that a question which, in order to be fully understood, relies on 
data contained in a pop-up box, which the prospective policyholder has to actively choose to 
review, is not a clear question. Ive seen evidence, which this service has shared with AXA, 
that satisfies me that the pop-up box is not automatically visible. And AXA has recently 
conceded that hyper-links to the pop-up box are an active part of the application process. 
I note it does say that the box will definitely become visible automatically after the question 
has been answered so the prospective policyholder can check their answer. But that isnt 
reflected in the video evidence Ive seen. 
what does this mean for Mrs P?
So as the question wasnt clear enough to elicit the information AXA wanted to know, I dont 
think I can fairly conclude that Mrs P misrepresented the situation to AXA. Which means that 
AXA has no grounds for avoiding Mrs Ps policy. So it will need to set the clock back and 
unwind the situation, so its as though its unfair and unreasonable act did not occur and 
Mrs P is made whole again against any losses. I accept this has been frustrating for Mrs P 
too, so it should also pay £150 compensation.
AXA raised further objections to my findings. In summary it said:
Mrs P should be treated as a commercial customer as she works in IT as well as owning 
a rental property.Using hyper-links and pop-up boxes is standard industry practice.
When certain devices are used, in certain modes, the information in the box is readily 
visible without having to click on a link.
It isnt known what device Mrs P used.
It was up to Mrs P to use reasonable care to find out what AXA meant by standard 
construction, and she shouldve thought to do this given her property has a large flat 
roof.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate AXA believes Mrs P should be treated as a commercial customer. But the fact 
she works in IT and owns one property doesnt mean she is not akin to a consumer. Ive not 
seen anything that makes me think she is more well-versed in insurance matters than other 
consumers are. Therefore, its fair that she is treated like a consumer and her actions are 
considered in the same light as complaints brought to us by other consumers.
Many insurers do, to one extent or another, use hyper-links and pop-up boxes. That doesnt 
change the fact of this services approach to information presented by insurers in this way as 
part of questions asked of prospective policyholders.
AXA has to show that it asked a clear question. It says that most prospective policyholders 
use a device where it has shown the information would be readily available. But it hasnt 
shown me that this is what Mrs P saw. 
I appreciate that Mrs P might, due to her employment, be well versed in using IT forms and 
be able to navigate application screens. But that same logic could be applied to many 
consumers. Whilst Mrs Ps property does have a flat roof, she was also in possession of a 
house survey document which said her home was of standard construction, and nothing in 
the question AXA actually asked Mrs P referred to a large flat roof potentially meaning her 
home did not meet AXAs definition of standard construction. 
Having taken everything into account, I remain of the view that AXA didnt ask a clear 
enough question to elicit the information it wanted to know from Mrs P. I dont think, in light 
of that, that Mrs P failed to take reasonable care. Im satisfied that AXAs avoidance was 
unfair and unreasonable and it needs to act to make up for that. My provisional findings now 
form part of the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require AXA to:
Reinstate Mrs Ps policy, removing the record of the avoidance from its own and any 
external database.
Consider Mrs Ps claim for fire damage and lost rent in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. If shes completed any repairs for insured damage, her costs will need to be 
reimbursed plus interest*.
Consider reimbursement for any losses not otherwise covered by the policy but which 
stem from AXAs avoidance, plus interest*.
Pay Mrs P £150 compensation.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the related amount from the date 
Mrs P incurred the cost until reimbursement is made. If AXA considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs P, it should tell 
her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman