DRN-1974567
The complaint
Mrs C, on behalf of the estate of Mrs W, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC plc (Lloyds) mis-
sold the late Mrs W monthly premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policies.
What happened
Mrs W was sold a MPPI policy in 1999 during a meeting. The MPPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs W was off work sick or lost her job. 
In 2001 Mrs W took out a further advance. The cost and benefit of the PPI was amended to 
reflect and protect the new borrowing. It would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim if 
Mrs W was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs C didnt agree and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs W was eligible under the policies. Based on Mrs Ws 
age, employment and circumstances at the time of the original sale and the further advance, 
Im satisfied that Mrs W was eligible under the policies.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs W that the MPPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to Mrs Ws account. Mrs C says Mrs W didnt need MPPI and only 
took it out because she was led to believe she had to in order to get the finance.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mrs C and 
Lloyds have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the MPPI application forms signed by Mrs W. Theres 
nothing on these forms to indicate MPPI was compulsory and these forms were separate to 
the actual mortgage/further advance applications. I understand Mrs C would also have had 
to complete separate direct debits mandates for the MPPI.   
So all in all, while I appreciate what Mrs C has told us, based on the evidence available to 
me I cant say its more likely that Lloyds didnt present MPPI as optional or that Mrs W didnt 
choose to take it out.  
Lloyds accept they advised Mrs W to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for Mrs W. I dont know if Lloyds took all the steps they should have to check if the 
MPPI was suitable for Mrs W but I do think the policy was suitable for Mrs W. I say this 
because:
- Mrs C has told us that Mrs W was entitled to sick pay from her employer. However, 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for a longer period of 
time. It would also have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mrs W may have 
been entitled to. 
- Mrs C has also told us that Mrs W had life insurance. However, I dont think this 
made the MPPI unsuitable for Mrs W because life insurance is a different type of 
benefit to MPPI and covers different eventualities. Mrs C has also told us that her 
and her partner could have helped Mrs W financially. However, this is not something 
which was guaranteed and ultimately the mortgage repayments were solely Mrs Ws 
responsibility.
- Mrs W doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the policy. 
- I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the MPPI itself was unaffordable for Mrs 
W at the time of the sale.
- Mrs W could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mrs W, Lloyds also had to give her clear 
information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in 
the policies  so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it 
out.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W wasnt as clear as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for her.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mrs W this MPPI.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint (on behalf of the estate of Mrs W) against Lloyds Bank 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman