DRN-2623564
The complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly recorded a missed payment on his credit 
file which delayed him being able to move two buy-to-let mortgages to a new lender.
What happened
Mr K had a mortgage with Barclays which he redeemed in December 2019. In July 2020 he 
applied to remortgage two other properties he owned. But these applications were declined 
due to a missed payment having been recorded by Barclays for the mortgage hed 
redeemed. Mr K contacted Barclays who confirmed this missed payment had been reported 
on his credit file by mistake and this would be rectified. 
Mr K was able to obtain remortgage offers once this had been done. But he complained to 
Barclays saying hed had to pay a higher rate than he shouldve whilst he was waiting for the 
remortgages to be agreed, and this was due to the adverse information Barclays had 
incorrectly reported. His previous mortgage products had expired on 24 July and he wasnt 
able to complete with a new lender until 26 October which meant he was stuck on his old 
lenders variable rate. 
Barclays offered £350 compensation for the problems this had caused. Mr K said this didnt 
take into account that he had to pay additional interest due to his remortgages not being able 
to go ahead. Barclays agreed to pay £2,163.85 to reflect the additional interest Mr K said 
hed paid. It also offered to pay 8% simple interest on this sum given that Mr K had been 
without this money during this time.
Mr K didnt accept this and referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators thought 
Barclays offer was fair, so he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr K didnt agree. 
He said Barclays had only compensated him for 59 days of delays, and it had taken 
significantly longer than this until he was eventually able to remortgage  he estimated the 
delay at around 90 days. He wanted the compensation to be increased to reflect this. 
Mr K asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me 
to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the informal nature of this service, we dont typically calculate redress in complaints 
such as this. Instead, we will typically tell a business what methodology to use and ask the 
business to calculate the redress provided. So, Ive focussed on considering how Barclays 
has calculated the offer of compensation its made to Mr K.
Its not disputed that Barclays made an error by recording a missed payment on Mr Ks credit 
file when it shouldnt have. Barclays has offered compensation for 59 days of delays, 
whereas Mr K says he should be compensated for 90 days. 90 days is the time between his 
original mortgage product expiring and the new mortgage completing. However, I note that 
Mr K didnt apply for his new mortgage until 8 July - just over two weeks prior to his 
mortgage product ending. So even if it were not for Barclays error, it seems very unlikely to 
me that Mr Ks new mortgage would have been ready to complete by 24 July when his 
existing product ended. I think a reasonable time frame from application to completion of a 
mortgage would be at least one month, if not longer.
Furthermore, I note that Mr Ks new mortgage offers were issued on 29 September but didnt 
complete until 26 October. Whilst I wouldnt expect them to complete immediately 
afterwards, its seems unlikely that Barclays was responsible for what was almost another 
month from offer to completion. Based on these two factors, I think the offer of 59 days of 
interests Barclays has offered is fair, rather than the 90 days Mr K is asking for is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. This is because, as set out above, I dont think Barclays 
was responsible for all the delays.
Weve asked Mr K to provide us with evidence of the rates he was being charged. However, 
he hasnt provided this. Instead hes given us the mortgage offers he provided to Barclays 
and his bank statements showing the payments he was making. Ive also noted that 
Barclays based its offer of compensation on the payment figures provided by Mr K. But Im 
not persuaded these figures were entirely correct. It seems that the rate which Mr K was 
paying when his mortgage product ended was actually lower than that shown in the original 
offer due to rates having fallen. And Barclays has shown us bank statements showing Mr K 
actually paid a lower monthly amount than those he provided which it calculated redress on. 
Its also worth noting Mr K was borrowing more money which also would have had an effect 
on how much wouldve had he was paying. Considering all of this, I think its likely that Mr K 
has actually benefitted from the calculations Barclays has carried out given that it used the 
figures provided in the original offer rather than the actual payment figures. Based on this, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to suggest further compensation.
Its clear this matter has caused Mr K stress and inconvenience. Finding out that you have a 
marker on your credit file that you shouldnt have isnt nice. And it took Mr K time and effort 
to contact Barclays and have this removed. However, its offered him £350 compensation for 
this which I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Whilst I recognise Mr K will be disappointed, my decision is Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer is 
fair and reasonable, and I dont require it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman