DRN-2484245
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monecor (London) Ltd, trading as ETX Capital, unfairly delayed a 
withdrawal request by requiring him to reconfirm bank details they ought to have already 
held on file. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mr H tried to withdraw just over £3,100 from his ETX account. He wanted this 
to be returned to the account it originally came from, but ETX required further information 
before this would be done. 
They said, [i]n order to process this request we require a current bank statement from you 
 as you are withdrawing an amount which exceeds your cumulative deposit value from the 
last 12 months. For security reasons, we are only able to refund to the originating deposit 
source for deposits made within the last 12 months, any deposit(s) made earlier than this 
period are not considered as refundable sources and funds must be returned via bank 
transfer. And they said theyd aim to process the request the day they receive the 
statement.
 
Mr H wasnt happy about this  he felt ETX were creating unnecessary obstacles and that he 
was entitled to his privacy. He asked ETX to either return his money or provide details of the 
complaints procedure. ETX dealt with Mr Hs reply as a complaint and issued their final 
response which was along the same lines as their initial reply.
 
Mr H asked further questions  he wanted ETX to specify which security issues were at play 
here and whether the EU anti-money laundering or counter terrorist regulations had anything 
to do with the 12 month period theyd referred to.
 
ETX said requesting bank statements was in line with their anti-money laundering policy  to 
help allay security fears, they suggested Mr H could send his statement with a password to 
protect it. They explained the requirements again, said they were in line with their internal 
controls and ultimately, that they take a risk-based approach to mitigating exposure to 
financial crime, and the 12 month period satisfies their obligations. After seven days, Mr Hs 
withdrawal request timed out as ETX hadnt received his statement.
 
Mr H was unhappy about what had happened so he asked for our help. He explained that as 
he was returning his money to its original source, ETX ought to have seen this on file. He 
thought theyd need to keep this sort of information to adhere to money laundering 
regulations and had asked about the legal requirements, but felt hed only received a vague 
answer. He felt that the sharing of any financial information always carried a risk of fraud, so 
this sort of information should only be required when absolutely necessary  and it wasnt 
here. And he didnt think ETXs suggestions of sending the data with a password to protect it 
was sufficient either. 
Mr H pointed out that ETXs website said additional due-diligence would be needed if a 
return to source wasnt possible  but here, he was returning to source. And he couldnt find 
any reference to ETX only keeping data for 12 months. He also felt he hadnt had the chance 
to fully articulate his complaint as his concerns were treated as a complaint without him 
asking to make one, and he was then directed to our service. To resolve things, he wanted 
ETX to remove what he felt were arbitrary barriers to returning money to source. He felt the 
12 month limit shouldnt apply to instances like his. But even if data needed to be shared, 
ETX ought to have a secure upload mechanism.
 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but he didnt agree ETX had done 
anything wrong. He said that as Mr Hs last deposit was in June 2017, ETX didnt have his 
bank details recorded any more. So it was reasonable of them to check before returning the 
money. He explained that our service cant interfere with ETXs policies or commercial 
decisions. And he also felt that Mr H did have the chance to fully articulate his complaint.
 
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary:
The idea that records would only be kept for a 12 month period was extraordinary  
even his bank keeps transaction records for the previous seven years.
EU anti-money laundering rules say financial companies are required to keep records 
for a minimum period of five years  ETX and their payment provider appear to be in 
breach of these regulations.
He hadnt been told that the reason he was required to provide a bank statement is 
because ETX only keep transaction records for 12 months. He thought they ought to 
have been more up front about this but instead complicated matters and provided 
spurious reasons why it was needed.
When he first contacted ETX he had a query, not a complaint. Hed requested the 
complaints procedure, but hadnt yet made his complaint. He felt it was unfair to 
issue a final response before hed been able to review what the procedure would be. 
And he felt the way the final response was worded suggested ETX were clear thered 
be no further communication.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial firms like ETX. Firms must be careful to verify a customers identity, 
establish the purpose and nature of the transaction and relationship along with the origin of 
funds. Changes in this space within the last decade have been significant and complying 
with the rules requires an ever greater, more complex approach to verification. While 
complying with the requirements takes time and could perhaps feel somewhat unnecessary, 
there are very good reasons for why they are in place. 
Its not for our service to interfere with this sort of thing. Its for firms like ETX to decide what 
their approach to compliance will be and how they will go about satisfying the multitude of 
requirements in the space, which go beyond just that of anti-money laundering. Our service 
isnt ETXs regulator so its not for us to tell them how they ought to go about running their 
business or what their procedures ought to be  thats a commercial decision for them to 
make. Instead, our role is to consider whether complaints made by consumers against 
businesses have been resolved fairly and reasonably. So we wouldnt be able to ask ETX to 
change the way they do things. 
Looking at what happened here, I can see that ETXs first response to Mr H explained why 
they needed to check a bank statement  they said [f]or security reasons, we are only able 
to refund to the originating deposit source for deposits made within the last 12 months, any deposit(s) made earlier than this period are not considered as refundable sources and funds 
must be returned via bank transfer.
ETX told us that Mr H had last paid money into his account in June 2017. His withdrawal 
request in April 2020 was therefore almost three years later. Because of this, ETXs payment 
service provider no longer held the payment details. 
I appreciate that being asked to provide a bank statement was inconvenient for Mr H. And as 
the money was going back to the same account, he felt he was being asked to provide 
unnecessary information which was frustrating. I can understand that from his standpoint, his 
bank account has been associated with his ETX account for a number of years and he will 
have previously satisfied identity verification processes  so it is understandable that he 
questioned the need for re-verification. 
However, despite the reasonable position of Mr H, ETXs position in the matter is at least 
equally  and certainly no less  reasonable. As the investigator said, it had a legal and 
regulatory duty to discharge and that was the purpose behind the need to check the bank 
statement. I dont think ETX can reasonably be criticised for doing this, or for doing 
something like it, in order to fulfil their anti-money laundering checks that they are legally 
required to perform. 
I dont think its unreasonable of ETX or their payment service provider not to have saved 
Mr Hs bank details  they will have done what they needed to do in order to discharge their 
duties and importantly, as they explained to Mr H, its for them to take a risk-based approach 
to implementing the rules in the day-to-day workings of their business. As I said above, its 
not for our service to intervene here and say ETX ought to hold bank details for longer than 
12 months. I can see that section 6.11 of their terms flagged this sort of occasion too, where 
they say in some circumstances it may be necessary for you to provide additional 
documentation to prove the origin of your deposit and your ownership of the destination bank 
account or card in order to protect you and us against fraud. 
From everything Ive seen, I dont agree ETX have done anything wrong here. I think it was 
understandable of them to ask Mr H to reconfirm bank details. And I also think its for them to 
decide how long details ought to be kept on file. As the deposit had been made more than a 
year prior, the functionality to simply return to source wasnt available so before transferring 
via bank wire they wanted to check the bank account was in Mr Hs name and recorded at 
the address they held for him. I think this is understandable and what they asked was 
reasonable and proportionate. Overall, Im satisfied ETX were entitled to act how they did so 
I wont be asking them to do anything differently here. 
Finally, I note Mr H says he was denied the opportunity to fully articulate his complaint, but I 
dont agree. The heart of Mr Hs complaint is that he didnt think he should have to provide 
the bank statement. And this is something he conveyed clearly in his first contact. While ETX 
then sent a final response, Mr H sent further communication that was responded to. I also 
note that the further communication included additional detail. So I dont agree he was 
treated unfairly or not given the chance to have his concerns heard. ETX didnt cease 
communication after their final response, they explained things in more detail, so even 
though Mr H says the way the final response was worded suggested thered be no further 
communication, there was and this was only one day later. So if hed wanted to raise further 
concerns then, Im quite confident theyd have been answered. So I dont think he was 
treated unfairly in this sense either. 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman