DRN-3115085
The complaint
Mrs O and Mr W complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has been unfair when it said it 
need not pay a claim they made for storm damage to a wall.
What happened
In mid-February 2021 Mrs O and Mr W contacted AXA about a boundary wall that had 
collapsed overnight. The wall is about 300 years old and of dry stone wall construction. They 
believed it had been damaged in a storm. AXA agreed to consider their claim, but later said 
it need not meet the claim because there hadnt been a storm in the run up to the collapse of 
the wall.
Mrs O and Mr W provided some comments from a reputable local stone waller, who said, in 
summary, that the cause was most likely heavy rainfall over the previous months that had 
led to the erosion of the inner wall material and the eventual collapse.
AXA said this supported its original conclusions  which was that the damage had built up 
gradually. It pointed out that it didnt insure damage like this.
Mrs O and Mr W complained, but AXA didnt change its mind, so we were asked to review 
the complaint.
Our investigator agreed with AXA. She looked back at weather records for the preceding 
weeks and noted one instance where gusts of wind qualified as storm according to AXAs 
definition. But she didnt think a well maintained wall would collapse as this one did simply 
because of this. 
Mrs O and Mr W dont think this is fair. They say there was no evidence that the damage 
was building up and that theyve always maintained their home very well. They say AXAs 
definition of a storm is unfair and not in line with the Met Office definitions. They want AXA to 
meet the claim.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why, as some of my reasoning is slightly 
different to that of my investigator colleague.
Ive looked carefully at the policy Mrs O and Mr W have, which includes the schedule  
which shows exactly what cover they bought, and the terms and conditions in the main 
policy document.
Id like first to address Mrs O and Mr Ws concerns about how AXA defines a storm. As a 
commercial business, its entitled to decide what level of risk it wants to take when insuring 
customers. Whilst nearly all insurers cover storm damage, only some of them define exactly 
what they mean by a storm  whether that be wind speeds, rainfall etc. Defining these 
parameters is often helpful as it makes it clear to a customer the circumstances in which 
they can claim, rather than leaving it to one party to decide.
Mrs O and Mr W say the definitions are unfair as they dont match those used by the Met 
Office. That may be so  but as long as AXAs definition isnt onerous (that is, more 
restrictive than most other insurers) I cant say the definition is unfair. And I can assure Mrs 
O and Mr W that AXAs definition is very similar to those contained in policies from other 
insurers. Mrs O and Mr W also pointed out that the rainfall required to qualify as storm was 
much higher than had ever been recorded in a day in the UK. But the definition is per hour  
so one hours rainfall could qualify. The rain doesnt need to continue for the whole day. Its 
meant to describe exceptionally heavy rain over a short period of time. Also, I see Mrs O and 
Mr W are comparing a definition of heavy rainfall with storm  and I couldnt say if those 
are directly comparable. I dont think these points persuade me the terms and conditions are 
unfair.
Having said the above, Ive gone on to consider whether there was a storm at the relevant 
time. Thats because the cover requires a direct link between a named event (cause of 
damage) and the damage itself. Here Id expect to see storm conditions in the preceding 
three or four weeks if they were to be directly linked to the collapse of the wall. From the 
weather records Ive seen the nearest incident of storm level winds  or storm level rain  
was one day about six weeks before the wall collapsed. Thats a long time before the 
damage appeared, so I cant say AXA unfairly concluded the wall didnt collapse during or 
immediately after a storm.
Even if I thought there had been a storm, Im still required to consider if the damage is both 
typical storm damage  and that this particular damage was caused by a storm.
Walls can collapse in a storm  although its unusual for one so close to a building to do so if 
theres no damage to the building itself, as walls in these positions are often somewhat 
sheltered. Ive not heard of any other damage to Mrs O and Mr Ws property. But its only fair 
to also consider if this particular damage was caused by a storm.
Whilst I have no doubt Mrs O and Mr W maintain their property as required, theyve also told 
us that there were no signs of damage in the run up to the collapse. Unfortunately that 
doesnt mean unseen damage isnt slowly building up  and it may well be that this wall had 
come to the end of its useful life, given its age. Their own contractor has suggested the 
damage has built up over time as rain got into the centre of the wall during bad weather. 
That might have been over many years or months, and isnt the same as it being damaged 
by a single weather event. 
Mrs O and Mr Ws policy isnt meant to pay for replacing things that have come to the end of 
their life. In some circumstances a policy might cover damage that has built up gradually but 
unseen  but Im afraid Mrs O and Mr W didnt buy that sort of cover.
My final decision
My decision is that for the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman