DRN-3102248
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given poor advice by Chambers Wealth Management Ltd to 
transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension.
Chambers Wealth Management was an appointed representative of Smith, Law & 
Shepherds I.F.A. Limited (SLS) who is responsible for this complaint. For ease of reading Ill 
refer to SLS throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr H was advised by SLS to transfer his deferred benefits from BSPS to a personal pension 
in 2017.
At the time of the advice Mr H was 54, married with no dependants, in good health and was 
earning around £38k per year.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr H started enquiries and requested a transfer value from BSPS in February 2017. He was 
worried about losing benefits and flexibility by moving to the PPF. He contacted SLS for 
advice regarding his pension and they recommended him to transfer to a personal pension.
Mr H complained in 2020 about the suitability of the transfer advice. After SLS rejected his 
complaint, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. An investigator thought the advice had 
been unsuitable. SLS disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. SLS should
have only considered a transfer if they could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interest (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not
satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The documents provided show differing accounts of when Mr H was planning to retire. Fact 
find notes show that he was hoping to retire around 60. The transfer analysis report (TVAS) 
matches this as it compared the benefits available in the DB scheme and the personal 
pension at age 60 and age 65 which was the normal retirement age of BSPS. 
The suitability report said that Mr H wanted to retire at 55. However, it also said this date 
wasnt set in stone and Mr H might work beyond this age. In the application for the personal 
pension it was recorded that Mr H expected to take retirement benefits at age 57. Based on 
what Ive seen Mr H wasnt certain when he would retire but I think on balance he was 
looking to retire somewhere between 57 and 60. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the DB pension at age 60 was quoted 
as 10.91% per year. The critical yield to match the benefits available if BSPS moved to the 
PPF was 7.08% at age 60. 
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service at the time the 
advice was given was 3.1% per year for 5 years to retirement. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2% per year. 
Even taking the lowest critical yield here (7.08%), which was a comparison to the PPF at age 
60, its likely Mr H wouldnt have been able to match, let alone exceed his DB benefits in the 
personal pension if he was invested in line with a medium risk strategy as suggested. SLS 
said they took into account what the recommended portfolio in the personal pension could 
reasonably achieve. As SLS will know, past performance is no guarantee for future 
performance and I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections as 
more realistic in this regard. 
However, even on SLSs assumptions Mr H still was unlikely to be financially better off in the 
personal pension. In their own fact find notes SLS said that, after taking off the fund charges 
and the ongoing adviser charges, the average returns for the chosen portfolio had been 
6.99% per year in the past 5 years. And in their final response to Mr Hs complaint they said 
returns of 6-7% per year were reasonable. This would still be less or just about matching the 
DB benefits in the PPF. And as I explained above I think there was a significant risk he 
would not even match his DB benefits and possibly by quite a big margin. Even more so if 
Mr H retired earlier than 60 as the critical yield would increase.
Mr H was also only a few years away from possible retirement, so any short-term losses 
would have been difficult to make up and his portfolio was invested around 50% in equities 
which made this more volatile. In fact the personal pension provider described this portfolio 
as adventurous. This was Mr Hs main retirement provision and given his relatively low 
capacity for loss, I think a lower risk investment strategy would have been more suitable for 
him which in return would have likely achieved lower returns and less likely matched his DB 
benefits.I also note that only a few months after the transfer Mr H felt uneasy about the fluctuations in 
his investments and his attitude to risk was downgraded to 3 (low to medium risk). This 
indicates that Mr Hs attitude and understanding of risk might not have been properly tested.
In summary, even if BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Hs benefits were reduced, he was 
unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a personal pension. By 
transferring his pension it was likely Mr H would be financially worse off in retirement, so 
based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Hs best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall
lower benefits.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr H approached SLS as he was concerned about his BSPS pension. Lots of his colleagues 
at the time were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end 
up in the PPF. Transfer values were also higher than they had been before (Mr Hs transfer 
value had increased significantly within a few months) and members felt there was a risk 
these values would go down again at some point. Mr H also said he was concerned that he 
would lose the flexibility to retire early once BSPS had moved to the PPF.
So its quite possible that Mr H came to SLS leaning towards the decision to transfer. 
However, it was SLSs obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was 
in his best interest. Mr H was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. He was 
worried he could lose some of his pension. However, as the figures above show, even if this 
happened, Mr H was still likely to be better off not transferring. I cant see that this was 
properly explained to him.
Instead the suitability report talked about the threat of the PPF, and the potential loss of 
benefits which SLS said were important factors in the decision to transfer. From what Ive 
seen SLS didnt provide Mr H with an objective picture about the PPF and what this might 
mean for him specifically. In their final response letter to Mr Hs complaint SLS 
acknowledged he had been concerned about losing the flexibility to retire early in the PPF. 
However, I can see no evidence that they actually explained to him that early retirement was 
still possible in the PPF and so his concerns in this regard werent justified.
Overall, I think SLS didnt do much to alleviate Mr Hs concerns and fears, but used them as 
a reason to help rationalise a transfer. 
flexibility and death benefits
The suitability report said it was important to Mr H to have flexibility but it wasnt really 
explored what Mr H actually required. I cant see that his income needs and general plans in 
retirement were discussed at all. In subsequent reviews after the transfer Mr H said he 
wanted a regular income -which he could have had in the DB scheme. And as explained 
earlier early retirement was also possible, even if the scheme moved to the PPF. 
It was recorded that Mr H would prefer to nominate beneficiaries -such as his wife and son -
to fully enjoy the benefits on the personal pension plan rather than receive a reduced 
spouses pension from the DB scheme. I think the existing death benefits with BSPS (or the 
PPF) were underplayed. Mr Hs wife would have received a spouses pension for life which 
given that she only had a small pension herself, would have been valuable if Mr H predeceased her. And if he wanted to leave some of his pension to his son, he could 
have made provisions for this with his defined contribution pension he had with his employer.
I dont doubt that the option of leaving a lump sum to his wife and son would have
been attractive and is something Mr H would have liked. However, SLS didnt explore to
what extent he was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for this.
In any event, whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here 
was to advise Mr H was best for his own retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think different death benefits justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that the advice given to Mr H was not suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk free and increasing income. By transferring he was risking obtaining lower 
retirement benefits and there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this. I dont think his options with regards to his DB scheme were properly 
explored.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr H likely was keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and the high transfer values were enticing. However, it 
was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr H. He should have 
advised him what was best for his circumstances and explain what he was giving up in the 
DB scheme and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For the 
reasons given above I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS.
On balance I think Mr H would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice if they 
had recommended him not to transfer out and explained why. 
If Mr H had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the PPF 
or transfer to BSPS2. I carefully considered what Mr H likely would have done and on 
balance I think he would have opted to move to the PPF. I say this because at the time Mr H 
wanted to retire early. BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased Mr Hs initial entitlement by 10% like 
the PPF and some of his benefits would have had potentially higher increases in BSPS2. 
However, early retirement factors in the PPF were lower and commutation factors for tax 
free cash entitlement were more favourable under the PPF. So overall, its likely Mr Hs 
income and tax-free cash entitlement would have been higher in the PPF. 
Under BSPS2, the spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Hs pension at the date of
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the 
spouses pension would likely be lower in the PPF. However, I think on balance his own 
benefits and higher tax-free cash which he and his wife could benefit from earlier in 
retirement would have been more important to him.
putting things right
My aim to is put Mr H, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in now but for SLSs 
unsuitable advice. I consider he would have stayed in BSPS and subsequently moved to the 
PPF.
SLS should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date 
of the actual calculation.
Im aware that Mr H took tax free lump sums both in 2017 and in 2019. Mr H has explained 
that he took the first sum in 2017 to keep it secure and not expose all his pension to 
investment risk. He said he spent some of it on his mortgage and a new car. He took the 
second lump sum to finance a property abroad, again because he thought brick and mortar 
were safer than keeping all his pension invested in the stock market. Mr H says he hasnt 
spent all the money he took.
On balance I dont think there was a pressing need for Mr H to take these lump sums. So if 
he had remained in BSPS I dont think he would have accessed his benefits early which 
would have triggered taxable income he didnt need. Mr H has confirmed he is still working 
now and is looking for a new role next year. He has no fixed retirement plans. So SLS 
should use the regular assumptions in FG 17/9 about Mr Hs assumed retirement age.
SLS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss
should if possible be paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Hs likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
In addition SLS should pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date
SLS receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of any 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day period, that it 
takes SLS to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decisionDetermination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Smith, Law & 
Shepherds I.F.A Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Smith, Law & 
Shepherds I.F.A Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman