DRN-4467262
The complaint
Mr H complains about Vitality Health Limiteds handling of his private medical insurance
claim.
What happened
Mr H holds private medical insurance cover with Vitality. He made a claim in October 2022,
and chased Vitality around a week later. Vitality logged the matter as a complaint. It sent him
updates in November and December 2022.
Vitality issued its final response in March 2023, and offered Mr H £25 compensation. Mr H
became aware at this point that Vitality had been waiting for further information from him
before it could progress the claim. He told Vitality he hadnt been asked for any information.
Vitality issued a second final response in April 2023. It said it wasnt clear if it had asked
Mr H for the further information. It agreed to cover his claim for diagnostic investigations, but
thought the £25 compensation previously offered was fair. Unhappy with Vitalitys response,
Mr H brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought reasonable
compensation for Vitalitys error would be £125.
Vitality accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr H didnt.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 November 2023. Heres what I said:
Vitality made an error here. It needed more information from Mr H before it could
progress his claim, and it now accepts that it failed to ask Mr H for that information.
Vitality did try to put matters right by accepting the claim for diagnostic investigations 
without the further information it wanted (to prevent further delays). That seems 
reasonable in the circumstances, though I agree with our investigator that Vitality 
should also pay compensation to Mr H. He only learnt that Vitality was waiting for 
information from him on 3 March 2023. This was over four months after the claim 
was made.
Mr H asked for an update on his claim on 28 October 2022 (around a week after it 
had been submitted). As he was unhappy with the time taken to assess his claim, 
Vitality logged this as a complaint. I see that Vitality wrote to Mr H a few times in 
November and December 2022 to say it was still looking into his concerns. It seems 
Mr H thought from this that Vitality was looking into the claim delay, and thats why he 
didnt continue to chase Vitality about the matter.
I think Vitalitys error caused Mr H unnecessary frustration, and meant his medical 
investigations were delayed. Taking this into account, I require Vitality to pay Mr H 
£350 compensation.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I reached a final 
decision. 
Vitality responded to say the compensation I intend to award far exceeds any other amount it 
has been asked to pay for this type of issue. It says it cannot see any reasonable justification 
for the increase.
Mr H responded with the following main points:
He doesnt agree that £350 is adequate compensation. He says this doesnt reflect 
that Vitality didnt provide the cover he was paying for, yet he continued to pay his 
premiums. 
He is still unaware what the delay was, as Vitality later covered the consultation 
without requiring any further information.
He says he chased Vitality through his broker, after involving them from the very 
start.
He was subjected to discomfort as he was told his claim was being investigated, 
which implied he was somehow trying to cheat Vitality.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality says the compensation I intend to award far exceeds any other amount it has been 
asked to pay for this type of issue. It may be helpful if I explain that when we consider 
compensation for distress or inconvenience, we consider the impact to the consumer. 
Vitalitys mistake was relatively minor, however the impact to Mr H was that his medical 
investigations were delayed as a result.
Mr H says the £350 compensation doesnt reflect that Vitality didnt provide the cover he was 
paying for, yet he still had to pay his premiums. However, Vitality was still on risk to pay 
claims during this time and therefore it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require Vitality to 
refund Mr Hs premiums. Our compensation awards are not intended to be punitive, and as 
Ive said, they reflect the impact caused to a consumer by a businesss mistake.    
Mr H says he doesnt know why there was a delay in the first place, as Vitality later approved 
his consultation without requiring additional information. As I understand it, Vitality wanted 
further information from the GP about Mr Hs symptoms and when they started. Though as I 
explained in my provisional decision, Vitality did later try and put matters right by accepting 
Mr Hs claim without this further information (to prevent further delays). 
Ive noted Mr Hs explanation that he did chase his broker about the matter. However, 
Vitalitys notes say the first contact from Mr Hs broker was on 30 March 2023. Mr H may 
want to take this up with his broker if he thought they were in contact with Vitality about the 
matter before that date. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that £350 compensation is appropriate here as I think this reflects 
the inconvenience Mr H experienced as a result of Vitalitys error.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr H 
£350 compensation (it can deduct any amount already paid).
*Vitality must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman