DRN-4061022
The complaint
Miss W complains about Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltds (Fortegra) handling of 
her claim about damaged allow wheels, under her tyre and alloy wheel insurance policy.   
What happened
Miss W made a claim under her policy with Fortegra to repair damage to one of her alloy 
wheels. She says the closest approved garage doesnt repair her make of car and Fortegra 
has no other approved garages in the area. Miss W says the nearest approved garage is an 
hours drive away. 
Miss W says Fortegra advised her to arrange the repair at her own choice of garage and to 
send it the bill. But Miss W says she cant afford to pay the charge upfront and doesnt know 
any repairers in her local area. She says she doesnt think Fortegra has been helpful to find 
a reasonable solution. 
In its complaint response Fortegra says it accepted Miss Ws claim and arranged for a 
repairer to carry out the work shortly afterwards. She contacted it to explain the distance to 
the repairer was too far. Fortegra says it arranged a mobile repairer at Miss Ws request. 
However, this was aborted as a cosmetic repair wasnt possible, rather the wheel required 
a diamond cut repair. Another repairer was appointed but again confirmed it couldnt 
complete the repair. 
Fortegra says it tried to book two further repairers, but Miss W told it they were too far away. 
It says a garage in closer proximity to Miss W could carry out the work, but it wouldnt be 
able to do this for several months. It says she wasnt willing to wait this long. Fortegra says 
Miss W complained that the options she was given involved travelling long distances. She 
says the dealership shouldve know this when selling her the policy.
Fortegra says not all of the options it offered Miss W were outside of a suitable distance from 
her address. It says whilst it tries to instruct mobile repairers, this isnt always possible due to 
the nature of the repair required. It says this is set out in its policy terms. Fortegra says one 
of its repairers is prepared to collect Miss Ws wheel from one of its branches closer to 
where she lives. This would avoid the need for a long journey as the branch is 22 miles from 
Miss W and the wheel would be returned to the branch and refitted after the repair.  It says 
the alternative is for her to choose one of the other options it offered, or she can arrange a 
repair and it will pay for this up to £150 including VAT. 
Due to the number of different options that had to be considered, Fortegra says it apologises 
to Miss W for the delay this caused in carrying out the repair. 
Miss W didnt accept this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
upheld Miss Ws complaint. He says Fortegra has made reasonable attempts to find an 
acceptable solution for Miss W. But she didnt want to have to travel a long way due to the 
time involved and fuel cost. She also couldnt afford to pay upfront for the repair. Because of 
this he thought a reasonable solution was for Fortegra pay Miss W £150 to settle her claim. 
Miss W accepted this outcome, but Fortegra didnt confirm if it agreed or not. Because an 
agreement wasnt reached it has been passed to me to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Miss Ws complaint. Let me explain. 
Miss W has Tyre & Alloy Wheel Damage Cover with Fortegra. Ive read the policy terms to 
understand what cover is provided. The terms say:
Maximum benefit  Alloy Wheel - £150 per claim, Max 10 Claims and £1,500.
And:
Alloy Wheel Cover  Accidental Damage
The sudden and unforeseen damage to the Alloy Wheel, caused accidentally.
Also:
The Administrator will appoint an Approved Repairer who will be responsible for completing 
the necessary work in the event of a successful claim.
For certain Alloy Wheel repairs, it may be necessary to remove the wheel from the Vehicle to 
be sent to a specialist. Please note that this Policy does not provide for any other costs 
incurred in such or similar circumstances.
There is no dispute from Fortegra that the damage to Miss Ws wheel was covered by its 
policy. The issue here is that a mobile repairer couldnt complete the repairs, which meant 
this had to be done onsite at a garage. The upshot for Miss W was shed either have to wait 
several months or drive a long distance. 
The policy terms dont mention where an approved repairer will be located in relation to the 
insured. However, wed expect Fortegra to behave reasonably and appoint a garage that is 
fairly close to where Miss W lives. Based on what Ive read Fortegra did try a number of 
difference solutions. This included using a local branch to minimise the distance Miss W 
would have to travel. That said, this still meant a 44-mile round trip and waiting for the wheel 
to be sent to another garage to be repaired. 
In the circumstances I can understand why Miss W would prefer to use a local garage to 
carry out the repairs. This would avoid driving a long distance and further difficulties 
arranging alternative transport from that location for the duration of the repairs. 
Miss W says she doesnt have the money to pay for the repairs upfront and claim this back 
from Fortegra. In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that a reasonable 
solution is for it to pay Miss W upfront. Fortegra confirms a diamond cut repair, which Miss 
Ws wheel needs, will cost between £110 and £150.  The policy allows for repair costs up to 
£150. Given the delays encountered in this instance I think its reasonable that Fortegra pays 
Miss W £150, which will cover the cost of the repair to her wheel and allow her to have this 
completed locally. 
I note Miss W says the dealership that sold her the policy shouldve been aware that there were no approved repairers close by. Im sorry she experienced difficulties with her claim, 
but this isnt something Fortegra is responsible for. So, I cant consider this point. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd 
should:
pay Miss W £150 to settle her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman