DRN-4203762
The complaint
Mr O complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) applied a 
missed payment marker on his credit file when they couldnt collect his mortgage payment 
by direct debit. 
What happened
Mr O has an interest only buy to let mortgage that he took out with BM in 2006.
In February 2023 BM were unable to collect his usual contractual monthly mortgage 
payment (CMP) by direct debit. They wrote to Mr O to let him know. BMs letter explained 
they hadnt been able to collect his CMP since there wasnt enough money in his bank 
account for it to be taken; theyd try again in ten working days; if the payment was taken from 
Mr Os bank account in the month after it was originally due, it would be a late payment and 
could affect his credit score; interest would be applied on the missed payment until it was 
paid; if he wanted to pay another way he could end up paying twice when they tried to take 
his mortgage payment again; but if he wanted to talk about how to pay or hed paid 
separately, he could call them on the number provided.
Mr O was unhappy BM reported a missed payment to credit reference agencies (CRAs) and 
complained. He said the February letter had been unclear. Hed understood if he paid 
manually there would be a risk of paying twice. And he said hed called BM in February 
when he wasnt asked any questions about his account but was told BM would try to collect 
the payment in ten days time. 
BM didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. They said their letter had been clear; there was no 
record of him calling in February; and they hadnt advised against making a manual 
payment. BM said too they were right to report the missed payment to CRAs since hed 
agreed to that on signing up to the mortgage and they were required to provide a true and 
accurate record of their customers mortgages each month. 
Since Mr O was unhappy with that outcome, he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt think BM had treated Mr O unfairly. Since Mr O 
didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Mr O will be disappointed, Ive come to the same outcome as our 
investigator for similar reasons, as Ill explain.
Under Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles, firms are expected to communicate with 
their customers in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. Im satisfied the letter BM sent 
to Mr O met the FCA guidelines. It warned a missed payment could be reported if the CMP 
was made in the month after it was originally due. Given the timing of Mr Os payments, that 
would be the case for him. I can understand Mr Os concern about paying twice. But the 
letter didnt say he shouldnt make a payment manually and it gave a number to call to 
discuss things.
Im aware Mr O recalls phoning BM in February. Hes mentioned BM didnt ask him for any 
account details and told him theyd try to request the payment again in ten days time. It 
sounds as if he may have made a general enquiry. He thought hed rung BM on his mobile. 
But BM havent found any record of him ringing on that number or his landline. I understand 
Mr O may have called from another number. But, unfortunately, he isnt able to confirm when 
he made the call and on what number. So, its not possible to know exactly what was 
discussed. 
It wasnt unreasonable for BM to report the missed payment to the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs). Mr O agreed to them sharing information about his account with CRAs when he 
took the mortgage out. And it was a true reflection of the state of his account at the time. 
In all the circumstances, whilst I understand Mr Os frustration, I dont think BM acted 
unfairly. So, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman