DRN-4153895
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service Zopa Bank Limited trading as Zopa provided in 
regard to a complaint he raised about an ATM transaction he made.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
Mr M had tried to withdraw funds at an ATM on 29 January 2023, as the funds never 
appeared, he complained to Zopa five days later. I understand that Mr M was unhappy with 
the service provided by Zopa when he complained about the above via its live chat function 
on 3 February 2023. He is especially unhappy with the time it took to get a response. 
I have reviewed the chat transcript from 3 February 2023. At 10.18am Mr M explains he 
wishes to raise a complaint and at 10.19am he is told that the team will get back to him and 
it usually takes a few minutes. Mr M provided a summary of his complaint. At 10.37am, his 
summary was acknowledged and the advisor apologised for the circumstances Mr M found 
himself in. At 11.13am (so just under an hour after Mr M raised his complaint) he received a 
message back to confirm a complaint had been raised and that the complaints team would 
acknowledge his complaint in one working day. The advisor went on to say it would then 
contact him with an initial response in three working days and aim to resolve the complaint 
within four weeks and if it wasnt resolved in eight weeks he would be directed to our service. 
Once the complaint had been logged Mr Ms complaint was transferred to the relevant 
department who deals with these types of complaints and once an advisor became available 
Mr M was told the disputes team would be in contact in 3-5 working days.
I appreciate that Mr M was told it usually takes a few minutes for someone to get back to 
him about his complaint. In fact it took just under an hour to get the complaint logged and 
3.30 hours for Mr M to get a response from the correct department about the next steps he 
would need to take, I dont think this was unreasonable. Firstly, Zopa said usually they 
didnt say it would. Its important to remember that with live chat functions, typically, the first 
response is generated by an automated bot as Zopa has confirmed in this case. So, while it 
wasnt helpful that Mr M was told it usually takes a few minutes each complaint is different 
and requires different timescales to ensure it is managed correctly and sent to the correct 
department. 
Zopa has also confirmed there was a large volume of enquiries which prevented them from 
answering Mr M straight away. However, when considering the inconvenience Mr M 
experienced, its important to note that there was no need for Mr M to wait on the phone as 
we may expect if he had called Zopa to raisethe complaint. As such, Mr M could continue 
with his day to day activities without much disruption. And while unfortunate, raising a 
complaint comes with inevitable inconvenience, and that isn't something I would ordinarily 
say warrants compensation.
Mr M has said that the relevant team took ten days to respond to him after he raised the 
complaint on 3 February 2023. But I dont agree. On 3 February Mr M was asked to provide 
further information which he did.  He then received a response on 6 February 2023 advising 
due to the type of complaint he had raised, Zopa had to wait 30 days from the date of the 
transaction before it could be disputed. This is due to the fact ATM machines have to be 
counted and checked for losses/surpluses and the frequency of this may differ pending on 
the merchant. While Mr M remains unhappy with this, this is Zopas process. This wasnt it 
causing further delays but ensuring it was following the correct process for this type of 
complaint.
So, while I understand these issues would have been frustrating for Mr M, we're all 
inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and a certain level of frustration and minor
annoyance is expected. So, for me to make an award I'd need to see that the impact of a
mistake was more than most people would expect to experience as part of everyday
life. And I dont find that is the case here. As such, I wont be asking Zopa to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman