DRN-3322955
The complaint
Mr N complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading 
as Santander Consumer Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr N was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
Mr N experienced issues with the sunroof not operating properly. He obtained a diagnostic 
report which found a fault with the drive motor.
Mr N contacted Santander who arranged an independent inspection. The inspection found 
that the sunroof would not retract or raise and that there were 5 fault codes. The inspector 
said the faults were due to wear and tear.
Based on the findings of the report, Santander rejected Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that based on the available evidence, 
including the inspection report, he wasnt satisfied that the fault was present at the point of 
supply.
Mr N didnt agree. He said hed discussed the issue with the manufacturer of the car and had 
been advised that this type of fault shouldnt develop in a car which had only covered 17,000 
miles. Mr N said he wanted Santander to help him with the costs of repair.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint and changed his view. He said he didnt think a 
reasonable person would consider it satisfactory that the sunroof failed within the first 3 
months given the age and mileage of the car. The investigator said that the car wasnt 
durable, and recommended that Santander arrange for repairs to the sunroof at no cost to 
Mr N.
Santander didnt agree. It said the independent inspection found that the fault wasnt present 
at the point of supply. It also said the car had passed a pre delivery inspection and no issues 
with the sunroof were found. Santander said that because the fault was electrical, it wasnt 
the same as a mechanical component when assessing durability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account the age and 
mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the goods 
includes their general condition, and other things including fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a second hand 
car  such as that supplied to Mr N  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require 
repairs and maintenance more often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply, taking into account the factors set out in the relevant legislation.
An expert engineers report can help in deciding whether a car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Ive carefully considered the ACE report. This says that in the engineers 
opinion, the sunroof failed due to in use wear and deterioration. The engineer concluded that 
the fault wouldnt have been present at the point of supply.
The engineers report is persuasive, because its expert evidence. Ive also taken into account 
the other evidence relied on by Santander, including a pre inspection check which didnt 
identify any issues with the sunroof.
Ive also considered durability, which is one of the ways in which satisfactory quality is 
assessed. When the car was supplied to Mr N, it was around 3 years old and had covered 
around 15,000 miles. The sunroof failed within 3 months. Mr N has said that the sunroof 
failed the first time he used it. Im not able to verify this, but I can see that the car was 
supplied in the winter, so its unlikely that Mr N would have wanted to open the sunroof until 
the weather got warmer.
Ive thought about durability, and about whether a reasonable person would regard it as 
acceptable if a sunroof on a car of this age and mileage failed after 3 months. On balance, I 
dont think a reasonable person would regard this as acceptable.  A sunroof isnt a 
serviceable component part of a car, and I think a reasonable person would expect it to 
function for a reasonable amount of time without any issues. I dont think a sunroof which 
fails after 3  years/15,000 miles is sufficiently durable. Because of this, I dont think the car 
was of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Ive taken Santanders comments on durability into account. In relation to durability, 
Santander has said that Mr N covered 4,600 miles in the car before the sunroof failed. This 
doesnt change my view on durability because, as Ive explained above, Ive taken the 
mileage into account in assessing whether a reasonable person would expect a sunroof to 
fail in a car of this age and mileage. And although Santander has suggested that durability 
cant be assessed in relation to an electrical fault, I dont think this is relevant because the 
fault isnt stated to be electrical but rather a mechanical faut with the drive motor.
Putting things right
Ive already explained why I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. To 
put things right, Santander should arrange for repairs to be carried out to the sunroof at no 
cost to Mr N. it should also refund the cost of the diagnostic report obtained by Mr N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as 
Santander Consumer Finance must:
Arrange for repairs to be carried out to the sunroof at no cost to Mr N
Refund Mr N the cost of the diagnostic report
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman