DRN-2190218
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc loaded a Credit Industry Fraud Awareness Marker 
(CIFAS) against his name and closed his bank account. Hed like this removed and 
compensation for the impact this has had on him. 
What happened
Mr L had a current account with Clydesdale.
 
On the 21 June 2019 Mr L deposited a cheque  via his mobile banking app  into his 
current account. But instead of writing £43 Mr L submitted that the cheque was worth £430. 
On the 22 June 2019 Mr L transferred out £430 to an existing payee. 
On the 27 June 2019 Mr L deposited a second cheque, again via the mobile banking app. 
Mr L entered the cheque was for £500 but it was for £15.
 
Clydesdale thought that Mr L had misused his account so applied a CIFAS marker and 
closed his bank account. 
Mr L complained to Clydesdale asking for the marker to be removed.
 
Mr L accepts that the value of the cheques wasnt the same as the amount he deposited into 
his account. But, at the time he was under a significant amount of stress including being 
abused and harassed by members of the public, on strong opiate based medication for back 
pain and wasnt medicated  or in treatment  for his mental health conditions. Mr L 
explained for this reason he was unable to focus and believes he must have accidentally 
entered the incorrect amounts.
Clydesdale responded to say that they hadnt acted unfairly in loading the marker on Mr Ls 
record. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Clydesdale response so complained to our service. He explained 
that he hasnt been able to access his benefits. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ls complaint. He asked Mr L if he could remember 
who the £430 payment went to and why he made the payment. Mr L explained that he 
couldnt recall who the payee was. But reiterated his point that at the time, due to his fragile 
mental state, he spent the funds very quickly.
 
Our investigator didnt think Clydesdale had acted unfairly in loading the marker. In summary 
he thought that Mr L had been inconsistent in his version of events and although he thought 
it possible one cheque might have been entered incorrectly, he didnt think it was plausible 
this happened on two occasions. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view. In summary he said:
-He wasnt able to focus properly or know what he was doing at the time because he 
wasnt on medication for his condition  but the investigator had got confused about 
this and thought hed changed his testimony. He was on pain medication but wasnt 
medicated for his mental health conditions. 
As Mr L didnt accept our investigators opinion its was passed to me for a decision. 
On reviewing Mr Ls complaint I came to the same conclusion as our investigator but I 
expanded on the reasoning when considering Mr Ls complaint about his account closure. 
I issued my Provisional Decision to both parties and asked them for further comments. 
Clydesdale accepted my Provisional Decision but Mr L did not. He responded and said:
-At the time of the cheque deposits he typed in the amount quickly and took a photo.
-He didnt get asked for any confirmation and wasnt on any medication at the time. 
-Mr L also explained that hes since been referred for speech and language therapy 
and advised he might need support in the longer term  and this shows he might not 
be able to notice things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive not changed the conclusion I reached in my Provisional Decision. In my 
Provisional Decision I said:
Clydesdale have explained that it loaded a marker because they believe that Mr L 
deliberately entered in the incorrect value for the cheques and misused his account. So Ive 
looked at whether Clydesdale was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had and 
the investigation it carried out and what the rules say about applying such markers.
CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet
the burden of proof set by CIFAS, which at that time was that Clydesdale needed to have
enough information to make a formal complaint to the police or other relevant law
enforcement agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed cases of fraud, rather than
mere suspicion. In addition, CIFAS guidance sets out businesses are expected to retain the
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.
Having reviewed Mr Ls account of events and the evidence Clydesdale have provided, Im
satisfied that Clydesdale have sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded on 
his file. In coming to this view Ive taken into account the following reasons:
-Clydesdale have provided evidence that Mr L deposited two cheques on the 
21 and 27 June 2019 where he entered the incorrect amounts. Mr L doesnt dispute 
this.
-I find it difficult to believe that Mr L incorrectly entered the amount of his cheques on 
two occasions in close succession. I say this because on both occasions the 
amounts entered were significantly higher than the value of the cheque  so the first 
cheque for £43 was entered in as £430 and the second cheque for £15 was recorded 
as £500. I think its surprising that on both occasions Mr L entered in significantly 
inflated amounts.
-Ive also seen a copy of the process for depositing a cheque via the mobile banking 
app. This explains that a customer needs to enter the value for a cheque on one occasion, then take photos of the cheque before confirming the cheque amount. The 
customer will then receive a notification to show the amount deposited. When Mr L 
made his deposits on both occasions after entering the incorrect amount he would 
have been given a second opportunity to stop the deposit, and following the deposit 
he would have been notified of the amount hed submitted. I think its surprising Mr L 
didnt notice the discrepancy in value on either occasion. 
-After Mr L deposited the £43 cheque for £430, the next day a transfer of £430 was 
made out of his account to an existing payee. Mr L doesnt dispute the transfer but is 
unable to recall who this payment went to  despite this being an existing payee that 
I can see Mr L made eleven payments to during the month of June. I find this 
surprising. Mr L initially explained that due to his mental health condition he was 
unable to control his behaviour and immediately spent the incorrectly deposited 
funds. But, for the reason Ive explained above his activity doesnt support this. Mr L 
in fact deposited £430 and then transferred this money out the next day. 
I understand that Mr L has diagnosed mental health conditions which he advises impacted 
on his behaviour at the time of depositing the cheques. But I satisfied that Clydesdale have 
sufficient evidence to indicate that Mr L misused his account  and have enough evidence to 
make a formal complaint to the police
Account closure:
Mr Ls also complained about his bank account being closed
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account and there are certain exceptional 
circumstances when Clydesdale can close an account immediately. Section 18.4 states 
Clydesdale will rely on this condition if they reasonably believe:
a) you have seriously or persistently broken these conditions or any of the other 
conditions which apply to that account;
b) you have acted fraudulently;
c) you knowingly use or try to use your account for illegal purposes, or let someone else 
do so; 
d) you have or may soon become bankrupt (in these circumstances, we may offer you 
an alternative service); 
e) you have given us false information;
f) you may cause us to break any law; or
g) you use threatening behaviour to any of our staff
Im satisfied that Clydesdale have complied with these terms and conditions in closing Mr Ls 
account.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr Land I understand that the closure of Mr Ls
account caused him inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about
who it offers banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a customer. But,
they can decide they no longer wish to do business with individuals. Thats because they
have the commercial freedom to decide whod they like to contract with. And Im satisfied
that in Mr Ls case Clydesdale exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided
to close his accounts. So I cant fairly and reasonably say Clydesdale have done anything
wrong here.Mr L responded to my Provisional Decision by saying that at the time of the cheque deposits 
he typed in the amount quickly and took a photo. He didnt get asked for any confirmation 
and wasnt on any medication at the time. Mr L also explained that hes since been referred 
for speech and language therapy and advised he might need support in the longer term  
and this shows he might not be able to notice things. 
Ive taken on board Mr Ls points and I realise this will be disappointing to him but it doesnt 
change my overall view on whether Mr Ls mental health conditions led him to incorrectly 
enter the wrong cheque values for the reasons Ive already explained. And Im satisfied that 
Mr L misused his account. 
Taking everything into account, I find that Clydesdale have met the burden of proof required 
by CIFAS to add the marker. So Im not going to ask them to remove the CIFAS marker.
. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman