DRN-2044389
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Saga Services Limited mis-sold him a legal expenses insurance (LEI)
policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint at the end of July 2020, part of which is 
copied below:
Mr C called Saga in August 2014 (the first call) to enquire about taking out a home
insurance policy. Mr C wanted to include legal cover which wasnt included in the home
insurance policy as a standard feature, so he was he was provided with an additional quote
to include LEI as an add on.
After being the sent the policy documents for review, in a subsequent call, Mr C agreed to
take out the home insurance and LEI policies he was quoted for in the first call, commencing
on September 2014. The home insurance policy  including LEI - have subsequently been
renewed year on year.
Around late 2017, Mr C sought to make a claim under the LEI policy. The underwriter of the
LEI policy sought advice as to whether the likely costs of pursuing the claim were
proportionate to its likely value. The underwriter initially sought to rely on a barristers opinion
dated June 2018 - obtained by the law firm instructed by Mr C at the time - to limit funding to
£2,000 (that being the likely value placed on the claim by the barrister at that time).
Mr C says so long as the prospects of him succeeding in his claim were at 51% or above, his
legal costs should be indemnified up to £100,000 - as thats the indemnity provided by the
policy. He says, when taking out the LEI policy, he wasnt told that legal costs were subject
to the principle of proportionality and could be restricted to the likely value of the claim. He
thought that so long as his claim was valued at £100 or above, his costs would be covered
up to £100,000.
Mr C says the LEI policy was therefore mis-sold to him. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs
complaint. She didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. Mr C disagrees so his complaint
has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the recordings of the calls Mr C had with Sagas representatives in August
2014 and Im satisfied that Saga didnt recommend the LEI policy to him. So, it didnt have to
check whether the policy was suitable for his needs.
However, Saga was still required to provide him with clear, fair and not misleading
information about the main terms of the policy so that Mr C had sufficient information to
decide whether the policy was right for him.
During the first phone call, Mr C was told that the LEI policy can cover a wide range of
claims - such as personal injury and damage to his property by a third party - up to £100,000
should he need to take formal action, and if the chances of him succeeding in his claim were
at 51% or above. He was also told the cost of the annual premium.
Mr C was subsequently sent the policy documents to review which he confirmed hed
received and considered in a subsequent call, when confirming to take out the LEI policy and
paying for it.
Ive asked Saga and Mr C for the policy documents relating to the LEI which were sent to
him around that time  including a key facts documents and policy summary. Neither party
has been able to provide these to me. Thats not surprising given the amount of time which
has now passed. But, apart from the information that was given on the call, it does mean I
dont know what the terms of the LEI policy were at the time, or what terms were specifically
highlighted to Mr C about the main features of the LEI.
I have, however, seen the LEI policy terms from later years and although they confirm legal
costs are covered, legal costs are defined as: all properly incurred and proportionate
disbursements, fees and expenses charged by the law firm (the proportionality term).
In the absence of any other information to the contrary, I think its fair to assume that the
proportionality term also formed part of the LEI policy taken out in 2014.
Even if the proportionality term shouldve been highlighted to Mr C when taking out the policy
in 2014 as a main feature of the policy and wasnt  which I dont intend to make a finding on
 Id still need to be satisfied that Mr C wouldve acted differently, and not bought the LEI
policy, had he been aware of this.
I cant, of course, know for sure whether he wouldve proceeded to buy the LEI policy. But
Ive thought about what hes likely to have done on the balance of probabilities in 2014 when
the LEI policy was sold to him, and without the benefit of hindsight. And I dont think the
proportionality term wouldve put him off taking the policy.
Thats because its common for LEI insurance policies to only cover the reasonable and
proportionate legal costs and disbursements of pursuing a claim. And LEI policies usually
restrict such costs if theyre likely to outweigh the monetary value of the claim. So, even if
Mr C had been unhappy with the proportionality term at the time, and had shopped around
for a LEI policy with a different provider, its likely other policies wouldve contained similar
terms.
Mr C specifically asked for legal cover so its something he wanted to take out and he was
happy to pay the price he did. And given what else he says in the calls Ive listened to; that
hed been happy with the other policies Saga had sold him, its likely he wouldve bought the
LEI policy he ended up with.
So, I intend to the find that the LEI policy wasnt mis-sold.
When doing so, Ive taken into account all of Mr Cs other comments including what he says
about there being wider issues with LEI, the way theyre sold, the online comments about
these types of policies and LEI policies arent fit for purpose. However, when provisionally
deciding Mr Cs mis-sale complaint Ive looked at the individual circumstances of his
complaint as Im required to do.Mr C also says the LEI policy he had the benefit of covered him for legal disputes so long as
the value of the claim was £100 or more. So, he asks how that can be consistent with the
proportionately term and poses the question, in light of the proportionality term, when would
a claim valued at £100 (or just over) ever be covered under the policy. However, thats a
hypothetical question and, subject to the remaining terms of the LEI policy, the policy says a
claim can be covered so long as its no less than £100.
So, whilst I know that Mr C is unhappy with the proportionality term and the effect it had on
the approach taken by the underwriter to his claim under the LEI policy, that complaint has
already been determined by our Service. But had he known about the proportionality term
back in 2014 when the policy was first sold to him  when the dispute he made a claim on
his LEI policy about in 2017 wasnt even in his contemplation  Im currently satisfied, on the
balance of probabilities and for the reasons Ive set out below, he wouldve still taken it out.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider.
Saga didnt provide any further information.
Mr C disagreed with my provisional decision. He has:
sent me a number of documents to consider which mainly relate to the ongoing claim 
hes made on the LEI policy;
referred me to the Misrepresentation Act 1967;
referred me to certain sections of the LEI policy and terms that are available on 
Sagas website from September 2019;
referred me to particular information on our Services website;
posed the question whether there are fundamental and systemic issues with LEI.
Mr C has also raised some further points including:
my provisional decision does nothing to resolve the claim he made under the LEI 
policy which has been ongoing since December 2017;
I have totally misunderstood his complaint which is about the maladministration of 
the policy by the underwriter / its agents;
he was absolutely content to have bought LEI from Saga and did so repeatedly 
and knowingly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.That includes all of the points raised by Mr C in response to my provisional decision. Having 
done so, I dont uphold his complaint for the reasons detailed in my provisional decision.
Id already considered many of the points Mr C has raised in response to my provisional 
decision when provisionally determining his complaint, as theyd been made previously.
But I would like to reiterate that when considering any complaint Mr C has raised against 
Saga, I can only look at the way in which the LEI policy was sold to him. Many of the points 
Mr C seeks to make either relate to the way in which the claim on the LEI policy has been 
handled and that the claim has yet to be resolved. Saga isnt the underwriter of the LEI 
policy so its not responsible for those things. 
Mr C has also reiterated his concerns about LEI more generally as an insurance product. But 
were not the regulator. Our role is to consider individual complaints brought against 
businesses, given their own circumstances, and to determine whether the business has 
done anything wrong. If we think it has, were able to direct the business to put things right. 
In this case, and for reasons set out above, Im satisfied Saga didnt mis-sell the LEI policy to 
Mr C.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman