DRN-2369335
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy because CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV has declined claims
made on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision this complaint in November 2020, part of which is copied 
below:
Mr K has the benefit of a group international medical insurance policy through his employer
which provides cover for medical fees worldwide, except in the USA and the Caribbean.
In 2018, Mr K was diagnosed with cancer which had developed in a particular part of his
body.
He made a number of claims on the policy to cover the costs for treatment which included:
A combination of Immunotherapy, general hyperthermia with chemotherapy and
antimicrobial drugs;
Nano-knife;
Radioligand therapy with 177Lutetium PSMA.
CIGNA declined these claims on the basis the treatments were experimental for the type of
cancer Mr K had.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She didnt think CIGNA had unreasonably 
declined the claims. Mr K disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that CIGNA and Mr K have raised a number of points  and referred me to a
number of documents and links to medical articles - which Ive considered in full. But Ive
limited my decision to what I consider to be most relevant in this complaint and by doing so I
mean no disrespect to the parties by not commenting on each point raised.
CIGNA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt
unreasonably reject a claim.
CIGNA accepts that the treatments Mr K had are medically supported to treat certain forms
of cancer but says there is a lack of scientific evidence to support that theyre effective to
treat the cancer he had.
The policy says CIGNA wont cover:
any form of experimental treatment (or procedure) that does not amount to orthodox
treatment or does not adhere to the commonly accepted, customary or traditional practice of
medicine in the United Kingdom.
Orthodox treatment is defined as:
a procedure or treatment that is medically accepted in the United Kingdom at the time of
commencement of the procedure or treatment, in that it accords with that upheld by a
respectable, responsible and substantial body of medical opinion, experienced in the
particular field of medicine.
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the medical evidence that Ive been referred to
when considering whether CIGNA has acted fairly and reasonably by relying on this policy
term to decline several claims Mr K made to cover the treatments he had.
For the reasons Ive set out below, Im satisfied it has:
Theres nothing in the NICE guidelines (the guidelines which set out the evidence 
based recommendations for the health and care in England) which says the
treatments Mr K had (and form part of this complaint) were effective  or
recommended in the UK  for treating the cancer Mr K had. Mr K says the UK
standard is irrelevant as he doesnt live in the UK, the treatment took place outside of
the UK and the policy he has the benefit of covers him for treatment in almost any
country in the world. I can understand why Mr K makes these points, but I disagree.
Whilst CIGNA may have regard for whether treatment is considered to be orthodox
treatment in the country in which it is performed, ultimately, the policy allows it to
decline cover for treatment if it isnt commonly accepted within the UK.
Theres nothing in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines
which confirms that the treatments Mr K had  including immunotherapy, radioligand
therapy and Nano-knife - are medically accepted as ways of treating the cancer Mr K
had. For example, notwithstanding the expanding research into immunology as an
effective way to treat his type of cancer, the NCCN recommends going through
conventional therapeutic strategy  which doesnt include any of the treatment Mr K
has claimed for as part of this complaint. Further, from what Ive seen, the European
Medicine Agency doesnt advocate these treatments for the cancer Mr K had.
I know Mr K says top Professors in other European countries routinely practice and
specialise in the combination of treatments hes claiming for, rather than follow the
more conventional routes  common in the UK - to treat the cancer he had. Its not
unusual for certain doctors to develop and pioneer certain treatments which they
think are effective. Ive also seen some results from clinical trials that suggest
treatments used on Mr K can be effective. But Im not persuaded that this means
theyre orthodox treatments as defined by the policy.
Mr K has accepted in correspondence since our investigator issued her view that
immunology has not proved effective in general for the cancer he had. However, he
says that his type of cancer affects only a small proportion of the population; its a
genetic defect which responds well to immunology. And that the 2018 Nobel Peace
Prize for Medicine was won by scientists whod used one of the drugs hed been
prescribed to treat genetic defects  and that it had been effective. But Im not
persuaded that it automatically follows that CIGNA has unreasonably concluded that
the treatment wasnt orthodox as defined by the policy  particularly as its not yet
supported by the various guidelines referred to above to treat the cancer Mr K had.Ive been referred to, and read, several articles from medical professionals which set
out the benefits of the treatments Mr K had. Whilst they do suggest that there are
some encouraging signs in support of some of the treatments Mr K had to treat his
cancer, Im not persuaded that CIGNA has unfairly concluded that the clinical studies
are limited, and the treatments are still under investigation; not yet proven to be
effective. And Ive not seen medical evidence to convince me that some of the more
conventional aspects of the treatment used to treat cancer more generally that
formed part of Mr Ks treatment such as chemotherapy  is medically accepted to
treat the cancer Mr K had.
Mr K says that CIGNA initially declined to cover proton radiation on the basis that it
was experimental treatment. But it subsequently changed its mind after becoming
aware that a proton radiation facility was being installed in London. CIGNA also
accepts that it covered some diagnostic and earlier treatment costs before Mr K
started immunotherapy. However, Im not persuaded this means CIGNA has unfairly
or unreasonably declined the claims that form part of the complaint Ive determined.
Ive placed more weight on the other factors Ive set out above such as the lack of
substantial body of medical opinion, experienced in the relevant field of medicine, to
support that the treatments werent medically accepted to treat the cancer Mr K had.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. 
CIGNA had nothing to add. Mr K raised several points in reply which can be summarised as 
follows:
He explained that there were two types of the type of cancer hed been diagnosed 
with and there were different therapies available to treat both; he believes the 
treatment he had was the most effective treatment;
He believes many leading doctors in the UK would have come to the same 
conclusion;
Any suggestion that he should see leading experts in Europe, but nonetheless reject 
the therapies that they recommend in favour of therapies favoured in the UK renders 
the policy less than useless;
He was assured by a top urologist in the UK that Nano-knife was typically covered by 
UK insurance policies. Mr K says if that particular urologist had been selected to 
perform the procedure, its likely to have been covered by CIGNA; 
His cancer is now in remission;
Nano-knife is less expensive than the alternative, more invasive conventional 
treatment, and has much fewer side effects which would result in years of additional 
costs. Lutetium 177 is comparable in price to external beam radiation therapy and 
has essentially no adverse side effects.
Mr K also put forward an offer to settle his complaint to our Service - and any legal claim he 
could bring against CIGNA to recover the costs which form part of this complaint, should my 
final decision be along the same lines as my provisional decision. I asked our investigator to 
put this offer to CIGNA and it has declined the offer.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks further representations havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. I say that because:
Id already taken into account, when issuing my provisional decision, the points 
raised by Mr K about the particular type of cancer he had, and the different 
treatments available for it. 
The medical evidence Ive been provided with from the time Mr K underwent the 
elements of treatment which CIGNA has deemed to be experimental under the 
policy doesnt show that many leading UK doctors wouldve supported the treatment. 
And in any event, as set out in my provisional decision  and importantly in this case 
given the way in which the exclusion relating to experimental treatment is set out in 
the policy - theres nothing in the NICE guidelines which says the
treatments Mr K had (and form part of this complaint) were effective, or
recommended in the UK, for treating the cancer Mr K had.
Im very pleased that the treatment Mr K had was successful and his cancer is now in 
remission. However, Im not persuaded that means CIGNA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by relying on the policy terms to decline the medical costs which are 
the subject of this complaint because it deemed the treatment hed had was 
experimental. 
Even if Mr K had been advised by a leading urologist in the UK that Nano-knife was 
typically covered by UK insurance companies, Ive seen no evidence that this is 
correct or that had the procedure been carried out by that urologist CIGNA wouldve 
agreed to cover the cost of Nano-knife. 
Further, even if the cost of the treatment which is the subject of this complaint is less 
expensive than alternative treatments in short or longer term, Im not persuaded that 
this means the CIGNA should cover the costs or that it has unfairly declined the claim 
based on its policy terms. 
So, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV doesnt need to 
do anything.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman