DRN-3171210
The complaint
Mr P complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim under his car insurance 
policy following his involvement in a collision.
What happened
Whilst driving his car in October 2019 Mr P was involved in a collision with another car. He 
says the other driver didnt want to go through an insurance claim as there was only minor 
damage and didnt want any adverse impact on her no claims discount. He says the other 
driver contacted him after the collision and suggested they each pay to repair their own car. 
He understood damage to the other car was limited to a wing mirror replacement, at a cost 
of £150. 
Mr P contacted AXA to inform it of the incident but confirmed he didnt want to proceed with 
a claim. In April 2021 Mr P discovered a claim had been paid by AXA in relation to the 
incident accepting full liability. He wasnt informed of this at the time and didnt think the 
company had considered his account of the collision. He also queried whether AXA knew 
about the passenger in the other car who was a witness or had considered whether CCTV 
footage of the incident was available. 
Mr P says he was worried whether this would have impacted on his insurance cover, as he 
didnt know he had been deemed at fault for the collision in October 2019. 
AXA says it settled the third-partys claim to prevent their costs from escalating and the 
matter progressing to court. It says the correct process was followed. However, it 
acknowledges Mr P wasnt kept informed of its decision, and accepts its service fell below 
the standard expected. It apologised and paid £150 in compensation for this shortfall in 
service. 
Mr P wasnt happy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator decided not to 
uphold his complaint. He says the policy terms allow AXA to take over, defend or settle any 
claim. 
Our investigator thought the company could have tried to agree a 50/50 split settlement. But 
accepted it had made a commercial judgement to limit the overall cost. Based on the 
evidence he thought this was probably the best outcome that could have been achieved. But 
will still have resulted in a fault claim with the loss of Mr Ps no claims discount. Overall, he 
thought the company had been fair when it offered an apology and compensation for not 
informing Mr P of its decision, in settlement of the complaint. 
Mr P disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr P, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My remit here is to consider whether AXA handled this matter in a fair and reasonable 
manner. It isnt my role, or within the remit of this service to decide who was at fault for the 
accident. 
The terms of the policy under General Conditions applying to all sections of your policy 
say:
Claims: If you or your car are involved in any type of incident, accident, claim or loss 
regardless of fault you must:
(b) give us full control of the claim including the uplift storage and repair of your car. We may 
take over, defend or settle the claim, or take up any claim in your name.
Most motor insurance policies include this term, or similar. It means AXA has a contractual 
right to settle the claim how it chooses and doesnt need agreement or consent from Mr P. 
That said we still expect the company to act reasonably and make its decision based on the 
circumstances and facts of the matter. 
I have thought about whether AXAs handling of the claim was reasonable. 
From the evidence provided both parties say the collision occurred head on in a narrow 
tunnel. And both deny responsibility. There were no independent witnesses. I note Mr P 
refers to a passenger in the third partys car. I havent seen a statement from the passenger. 
However, its unlikely the third partys passenger can be considered independent or would 
corroborate Mr Ps version of events.
Mr P refers to the possibility of CCTV footage showing the collision. He hasnt provided 
footage or shown that CCTV captured the incident. If footage was available, its reasonable 
to expect AXA to have considered this information. But I havent seen any evidence to show 
that it was available. I understand the credit hire company that made the claim to AXA on the 
third partys behalf, didnt identify CCTV footage of the collision.
Mr P suggests the company could have tried to agree a 50/50 split settlement. I understand 
his concern here. However, this would have had the same impact with a fault claim still 
being recorded against him and the loss of his no claims discount. AXA says it was confident 
it wouldnt win in court and so it paid the third-party claim to avoid costs increasing. Based 
on what I have seen I dont think its been shown that AXAs decision was unreasonable.
I can understand that it came as a shock to Mr P, when he found out the claim had been 
paid, which impacted his no claims discount. AXA accepts it didnt involve him in the 
decision or inform him of the outcome. In recognising this I think it was fair for the company 
to provide an apology and £150 compensation. 
In summary I think AXA acted fairly and in line with the policy terms when it decided to pay 
the third-party claim. I dont think it behaved reasonably in not informing Mr P of its decision, 
but its provision of an apology and £150 was fair to acknowledge this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman