DRN-3244043
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her an interest only buy 
to let (BTL) mortgage. She also complains about Barclays handling of her mortgage when 
it came to the end of its term.
What happened
Mrs D took out a BTL mortgage with Barclays in 2012. In February 2021 Barclays wrote to 
her to say that her mortgage was maturing and the balance needed to be paid by the end of 
March 2021. Mrs D says she was taken aback to get a letter demanding full repayment of 
her mortgage. She was stressed by this and didnt know who to talk to.
Mrs D contacted Barclays and was told the balance to pay on her BTL mortgage was 
£70,000. She says it was only at this point that she realised that her mortgage has been 
taken out on an interest only basis. Mrs D says she hadnt been told this when she took out 
the mortgage and hadnt received annual mortgage statements from Barclays. When she got 
the mortgage she was simply told the mortgage she took out was the cheapest option. So 
she thinks Barclays mis-sold this mortgage to her. She says she wouldve taken a 
repayment mortgage if shed been aware of the different options available to her.
Mrs D says she tried to discuss changing her BTL mortgage to a repayment mortgage but 
she found the options unreasonable, and Barclays unhelpful. So she reluctantly decided to 
pay the BTL mortgage balance using savings shed earmarked for her grandchildren.
Mrs D visited a Barclays branch on 31 March 2021 to pay the BTL mortgage balance. She 
was told shed receive confirmation of the mortgage being redeemed within a week. She 
didnt hear anything, so she phoned Barclays on 13 April 2021. She was told there was no 
record of her BTL mortgage being redeemed. Mrs D says she was very worried and stressed 
by this, thinking shed been a victim of fraud. Mrs D contacted Barclays fraud team who said 
the payment had gone into an escrow account instead of Mrs Ds account. 
Mrs D complained to Barclays about everything that had happened. When she didnt get a 
letter about her complaint she went to Barclays branch and was told that a final response 
letter had been sent to her on 21 April 2021. 
In its final response Barclays didnt uphold the mis-sale aspect of her complaint. Barclays 
said Mrs D agreed to the mortgage being an interest only one when she signed the 
paperwork to get the mortgage. Barclays also said theyd sent annual mortgage statements 
and that these showed the mortgage was taken out on an interest only basis too. Barclays 
pointed out that BTL mortgages are non-regulated and non-advised. So it didnt advise her 
to get the mortgage.
However, Barclays offered £150 for trouble and upset caused by its handling of Mrs Ds final 
redemption. It also waived the final redemption charge (worth £275) that was payable when 
the mortgage was redeemed. Barclays also returned the additional interest payments it had 
taken when Mrs D redeemed her mortgage.
Mrs D remained unhappy so she complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Was Mrs Ds mortgage mis-sold?
Our investigator looked into what happened. He told Mrs D that BTL property is treated as a 
business investment, so Barclays didnt need to assess how Mrs D would repay the BTL 
mortgage in the same way as it might have done if she got a residential mortgage. He went 
on to say that consumer BTL mortgages became regulated in 2016. That meant lenders 
were required to offer more information and advice around these applications from then on. 
However, Mrs D applied for her BTL mortgage in March 2012. That meant that Barclays 
didnt offer advice on these consumer BTL mortgages.
As Barclays didnt advise Mrs D about what mortgage to get, our investigator said he 
couldnt say that they shouldve done more to help her with the mortgage application. He 
could see that the BTL mortgage offer document made it clear that the mortgage was on an 
interest only basis and that it matured in March 2021.
Our investigator also said that the BTL mortgage offer also stated that it incorporated Special 
Conditions. Those Special Conditions referred to the mortgage being on an interest only 
basis.
In the circumstances our investigator was satisfied that Mrs Ds mortgage offer said that her 
BTL mortgage was on an interest only repayment basis. He said it was Mrs Ds responsibility 
to repay the mortgage at the end its nine-year mortgage term. So Barclays didnt make a 
mistake when it wrote to Mrs D to ask for outstanding balance to be repaid in February 2021.
Our investigator said that Barclays has sent us evidence to show that that they sent annual 
BTL mortgage statements to Mrs D at her home address. These statements showed that 
Mrs D was only paying the interest on her BTL mortgage and not reducing the balance, 
except for overpayments she made. Our investigator appreciated that Mrs D had told us that 
she didnt receive those statements. However, he said that as he could see that Barclays 
sent the statements to Mrs Ds correct address, so he didnt think it would be fair to hold 
Barclays responsible for Mrs D not receiving the statements.
Redeeming Mrs Ds mortgage
Our investigator appreciated that Mrs D wouldve been concerned when Barclays said they 
were unable to trace her BTL mortgage redemption payment. However he said that he could 
see that in order to recognise its mistake in connection with this payment Barclays waived 
the £275 mortgage redemption fee (outlined in the mortgage offer), refunded £110.26 of 
interest and offered her £150 for the trouble and upset caused by her mortgage repayment 
going missing.
Our investigator felt that this was a fair and reasonable amount to resolve this complaint. 
Mrs D disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Mrs D 
thinks she should be awarded more compensation for what happened given the emotional 
distress she says she suffered. She remains unhappy that Barclays asked her for full 
repayment of the mortgage when it wrote to her in February 2021, and she complains that 
Barclays wrote to her (more than 8 months after shed redeemed her mortgage) to tell her 
that she had paid her mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Was Mrs Ds mortgage mis-sold?
Its clear that Mrs D thinks Barclays shouldve done more to assist her when she took out her 
mortgage. She has described herself as both elderly and nave. She says she would have 
got a capital repayment mortgage if Barclays had taken time to help her when she took out 
her mortgage. I understand Mrs Ds position. However, our investigator is correct to say that 
her BTL mortgage wasnt regulated in March 2012, so Barclays wasnt obliged to advise her 
when she took it out.
Mrs Ds BTL mortgage offer document said the following:
Amount approved: £100,000
£100,00 at 3.99% Interest only
Loan term: 9 years
I can also see that the Special Conditions that applied to the mortgage also referred to the 
mortgage being on an interest only basis.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that the mortgage offer was clear that the mortgage was 
provided on an interest only basis. 
I think Barclays could reasonably expect Mrs D to look at the mortgage offer and ask for 
more information if she didnt understand it. As our investigator said, BTL property is treated 
as a business investment so Barclays didnt need to assess how Mrs D would repay the 
mortgage as it might have done if she got a residential mortgage. BTL mortgages werent 
regulated when Mrs D applied for her mortgage in 2012. 
Like our investigator Im satisfied that the annual statements Barclays sent Mrs D also made 
it clear that her BTL mortgage had been provided on an interest only basis. Mrs D has told 
us that she didnt get any of her annual statements. However I can see they were sent to her 
at her correct address. So it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Barclays was responsible for 
Mrs D not getting those statements.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair to say that Mrs Ds BTL mortgage was mis-sold.
Its clear that Mrs D remains unhappy that she was sent a letter in February 2021 asking for 
full repayment of the outstanding balance on her mortgage. She has told us she wasnt 
expecting such a letter and that it caused her a lot of stress. Shed hoped Barclays wouldve 
done more to work with her and help her take out a repayment mortgage to pay the balance. 
I understand Mrs Ds position on this, and Im sorry to hear how stressed she was when she 
received Barclays February 2021 letter. However, her interest only mortgage was due to 
end in March 2021, so I cant say Barclays made a mistake when it sent her that letter. 
Mrs D has told us that she was able to speak to Barclays so she could understand what it 
was willing to offer her and decide what to do next. I appreciate she found Barclays offer 
unreasonable, but it wouldnt be appropriate for me to interfere with Barclays commercial 
decisions by commenting on that offer. 
redeeming Mrs Ds mortgageTheres no dispute that Barclays made a mistake when Mrs D redeemed her mortgage. 
Barclays says that instead of it being applied to Mrs Ds mortgage account, Mrs Ds money 
was put into an escrow account. I can appreciate how worried Mrs D was by this. However, I 
can see that Barclays acted promptly to tell Mrs D what had happened to her money once 
she contacted them about this. 
compensation
I think the Barclays has done enough to compensate Mrs D for the issues raised in this 
complaint. Barclays waived the £275 mortgage redemption fee that she was required to pay 
when she redeemed her mortgage. They also offered her £150 for the trouble and upset 
they caused when Mrs Ds redemption payment went into the wrong account. I think this is a 
fair and reasonable amount to resolve this mistake given the nature of what happened, and 
the amount of time Mrs D was affected. 
I appreciate that Mrs D is unlikely to be happy with my decision. She thinks she should get 
more compensation given the emotional distress she says she suffered. I dont 
underestimate Mrs Ds strength of feeling. However, I think the £425 it has offered to resolve 
this dispute (waiving the £275 redemption fee plus £150 compensation) is in line with what 
this service would recommend when a business mistakes have had a moderate impact on a 
consumer. I can also see that Barclays has refunded £110.26 of interest it applied to Mrs Ds 
account by mistake when her mortgage was redeemed. 
Its clear that Mrs D remains angry with Barclays. Recently she has complained that 
Barclays wrote to her (more than 8 months after shed redeemed her mortgage) to tell her 
that she had paid her mortgage. I appreciate that Mrs D found this frustrating, but Im not 
persuaded that letter amounted to harassment as she has suggested. 
Taking the matter as a whole, I dont require Barclays to pay Mrs D any more money to 
resolve this dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt need 
to do more to resolve this dispute. It has already waived the £275 redemption fee and should 
pay Mrs D the £150 compensation it has offered if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman