DRN-2415392
The complaint
 Mr B complains that Alan Boswell & Company Limited (ABC) didnt make him aware of the 
tax consequences of withdrawals he made from his Offshore Investment Bond.
What happened
 Mr B was awarded compensation as the result of a personal injury he suffered, with the 
money he received being put into trust. Mr Bs financial affairs were initially managed by 
another business, but he transferred his affairs to ABC when he became dissatisfied with the 
service he was getting.
In or around 2001 Mr B/the trustees were advised by ABC to invest some of his money in an 
offshore investment bond from which he took regular withdrawals. In 2006 Mr B took three 
lump sum withdrawals from the offshore bond - £20,000 in March 2006, £15,000 in April 
2006 and £14,000 in November 2006. He surrendered the bond fully as of May 2017.
In 2019 Mr B was contacted by HMRC regarding chargeable gains and tax payable 
regarding his offshore bond. He provided it with calculations showing he had made a 
chargeable gain of £49,000 in the 2006/2007 tax year based on the three withdrawals that 
he had made. He calculated tax due of £9,800 with interest on the unpaid tax of £7,543. 
HMRC also suggested that a penalty of 200% of the tax could be payable.
He complained to ABC on the basis he wasnt made aware of the tax consequences of the 
withdrawals he had made at the time - ABC didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the tax 
consequences of withdrawals from the bond had been provided to Mr B and the trustees on 
several occasions, and it set these out.
The complaint was referred to us and one of our investigators considered it. He contacted 
the IFA at Mr Bs solicitors setting out his thoughts as to why he thought ABC had provided 
sufficient information about the tax consequences of the withdrawals and asking for 
comments which the IFA provided. The investigator then provided his opinion explaining why 
he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He set out information that was provided to the trustees which referred to the potential tax 
liability resulting from the capital withdrawals. The investigator also referred to a letter from 
the adviser to Mr B in December 2003 referring to tax only being deferred and a further letter 
in April 2004 which said something similar.
The investigator said he was satisfied that Mr B was made aware there were tax implications 
of making withdrawals.
The IFA said Mr B didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary he made the 
following key points:
Providing generic advice about how an investment bond is taxed and specific advice 
on the implications of taking withdrawals are two totally different pieces of advice.
Mr B wasnt provided with the full tax implications of the withdrawals in March and 
April 2006.
He doesnt believe the adviser understood the position which would explain why no 
specific advice was given.
It isnt in dispute that previous generic advice had been provided.
The letter of February 2006 from the adviser to the trustees didnt say there would be 
a tax liability. It says there may well be such a liability so it leaves open the 
possibility there wont be.
At the time of the advisers letter to Mr B of July 2006 the tax liability relating to the 
withdrawals in March and April 2006 had already been incurred. So, it should have 
been possible to calculate the tax liability.
The correspondence the investigator has referred to from 2003 and 2004 which 
makes reference to tax being deferred is generic information that should be provided 
to all clients. Mr B/the trustees should have been given specific advice prior to the 
withdrawals.
The letters referred to careful timing resulting in less tax being ultimately payable but 
there is nothing to show the adviser timed the withdrawals carefully.
The bond was written in segments which ABC should have been aware as they set it 
up. The withdrawals were taken across the segments and there is nothing to show 
consideration as given to closing full segments. As withdrawals were taken across all 
segments it was always going to be taxed on the policy year end and therefore in the 
2006/2007 tax year, so taking one withdrawal in March 2006 and one in April 2006 
had the same implications as taking one lump sum on either date. 
Withdrawals taken later in the policy year could have been deferred to after the 
December anniversary to move the tax point to the following tax year which could 
have been tax beneficial but there is nothing to show this was considered.
It is agreed that the file note of 21 March 2006 correctly states that Mr B can keep the 
withdrawals at 5% and that after 20 years or 5% of costs withdrawals all withdrawals 
will be taxed at the highest marginal rate. However, it should have been made clear, 
given there had been a capital withdrawal, that if withdrawals were maintained at 5% 
tax would be payable in less than 20 years.
The email of 22 March 2007 which ABC said was to clarify whether HMRC would 
deem the withdrawals income or capital, demonstrates the adviser was unclear on 
the full tax implications of the withdrawals.
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where there is a dispute between the parties my findings are made on a balance of 
probabilities - what is more likely than not.
I have no doubt that Mr B will have been distressed when he was contacted by HMRC and it 
became apparent to him that there was tax payable for withdrawals in 2006 and that in 
addition he could have to pay a penalty of 200% of that tax as well as interest on the amount 
owing. However, although I sympathise with the position that he has found himself in, I agree 
with the investigator that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I will explain why. 
I have seen various documents provided to Mr B and the trustees before 2006 - such as 
correspondence and investment reports from 2001 and 2003 - which provides general 
information about how offshore bonds are taxed. So, Mr B and the trustees were made aware that tax is deferred and that 5% of the amount invested can be taken each year 
without tax being payable at the time. 
As the IFA has argued, this is the sort of general information it could reasonably be expected 
a business to provide to a client. It obviously does not provide any information about the 
actual tax consequences of taking the withdrawals in 2006 - although arguably being told 
what amount can be withdrawn without tax being payable at the time puts you on notice that 
withdrawals above that figure could be subject to tax at the time of those withdrawals. 
Turning to the information provided by ABC in 2006, I note there is more than one reference 
in file notes, emails and letters to making one withdrawal before 5 April 2006 and a second 
one afterwards, so the withdrawals fell in different tax years. I understand why the IFA 
argues that this suggests the adviser didnt understand the tax position - given the tax 
payable on the withdrawals is based on the anniversary of the bond, which in this case is 
December. So, all the withdrawals made in 2006 from January to December 2006 are taxed 
as falling into the tax year ending April 2007. 
However, any misunderstanding on the part of the adviser about the significance of the tax 
years hasnt caused Mr B any loss. Whether Mr B took one withdrawal in March and one in 
April or took the whole amount in one payment in either month his liability to tax would be the 
same in any event - as he would still have taken the money in 2006 and his withdrawals/s 
would still have been taxed as falling into one tax year. 
The IFA also argues that the adviser should have been able to accurately confirm to Mr B 
how a withdrawal would be treated for tax purposes. From the information I have seen the 
adviser didnt provide any calculation before the withdrawals in March and April 2006. But 
there is no persuasive evidence that Mr B would have done anything different if he had been 
given a figure for the tax payable before the withdrawals were made.
From the information I have seen the withdrawals in March 2006 and April 2006 followed a 
request from Mr B as he wanted money for building works that were due to start in March 
2006. There is no reason to think Mr B wouldnt still have wanted the withdrawals if he had 
been made aware the withdrawals didnt need to be split over two different tax years or he 
had been given a calculation as to what the tax would be before making the withdrawals. 
There is nothing to show Mr B didnt want or need the money so I think it is more likely than 
not he would have taken the withdrawals in 2006 in any event and so he would have ended 
up being liable for the tax anyway.
And although Mr B may not have been provided with a calculation before the withdrawals, I 
think it is more likely than not he and the trustees were aware that tax would be payable on 
the withdrawals before he made them. I say this because the adviser wrote to the trustees 
on 9 February 2006 stating:
 (Mr B) has already confirmed that he would like the regular withdrawals from the bonds to 
be reduced to keep them to 5% of the original cost. He knows that there may well be an 
Income tax liability for him once the capital withdrawals are made. As I expect you know, 
there is no Income tax or Capital Gains tax (CGT) deducted from the Canada Life 
International and Lombard Bonds as they go along, but there is a personal liability to Income 
tax for (Mr B) when any withdrawals are made at a rate of more than 5% per annum cost.
Firstly, this indicates that the adviser did mention potential tax consequences to Mr B, 
although there is nothing to show exactly what was said. Secondly it shows the trustees 
were made aware there would be tax consequences.The IFA has referred to the adviser using the wording may well be rather than would be in 
relation to any income tax liability and says this leaves open the possibility there wont be a 
liability to tax. But it is equally true to say that Mr B was made aware that tax may well arise 
and wasnt put off from withdrawing money from the bond, knowing that he could well end up 
paying tax whilst not knowing how much that liability might be. In the circumstances there is 
no reason to think he wouldnt have gone ahead in any case if an actual figure had been 
provided.
It is also worth noting that the adviser goes on to state to the trustees that there is a personal 
tax liability when withdrawals are more than 5%. So even if the first statement was 
ambiguous the adviser subsequently specifically indicated to the trustees that a tax liability 
did arise. 
Mr B has pointed to a subsequent letter of 16 March 2006 to one of the trustees which was 
copied to Mr B. This letter discusses the 5% regular withdrawals and that these withdrawals 
of themselves wont create a tax charge until higher levels of withdrawal are made in 
future. The adviser goes on to point out that continuing to take 5% may lead to depletion of 
the capital in the future.
I acknowledge that what the adviser was saying might have been clearer if he had also 
referred to the additional withdrawals that were in the process of being made and the tax 
consequences of those withdrawals. However, I dont agree with Mr Bs argument that the 
letter indicated that those withdrawals would not create a tax liability. 
The letter makes clear it is referring to the 5% regular withdrawals and the tax payable on 
those withdrawals - not any additional withdrawals over and above the 5%. I dont think it 
could reasonably be understood as meaning no tax would be payable on the additional 
withdrawals. Even if that is what Mr B thought the adviser was saying I think subsequent 
correspondence made it clear that there was a tax liability.
In a letter dated 26 July 2006 the adviser said that the provider wouldnt provide a 
chargeable event certificate, but that ABC had tried to calculate the chargeable gain. The 
adviser said it was ABCs belief that a chargeable gain of £30,208 had been made and that 
the provider had indicated this was correct, although wouldnt confirm this. The adviser 
provided some calculations to show how the chargeable gain figure had been arrived at.
In the letter the adviser also explains that all withdrawals in a scheme year are deemed to 
take place on the last day of the scheme year and that on that basis both the recent 
withdrawals will be treated as taking place on 5 December 2006 and that it is income in the 
2006/2007 tax year that will determine the tax payable on the gain. The adviser states 
clearly that the tax will be due by 31 January 2008. The adviser finishes by saying that Mr 
Bs tax adviser should be able to confirm he amount of the gain to declare and the resulting 
tax liability.
So, at this point Mr B was fully aware of there being a chargeable gain and tax liability 
arising from the withdrawals and that the tax would be payable no later than 31 January 
2008. It was not for ABC to provide information to HMRC, that was for Mr B to do. 
In addition, the adviser wrote to the trustees on 9 November 2006 about the further 
withdrawal of £20,000 in which he stated:
I must remind you that all withdrawals made in a scheme year are treated as happening at 
the same time at the end of that scheme year and as (Mr B) has already used his 5% tax 
deferred income allowance there is a chargeable gain to be disclosed to the tax office. Our letter of 25 July 2006 to Mr B indicated our thoughts as to what the liability at that point could 
be but I recommend that you seek professional accountancy advice int this area. I have 
copied this letter and the Lombard form to Mr B so he is aware of the current position 
regarding the withdrawal.
So, this further confirmed, both to the trustees and Mr B, the tax consequences of making 
the withdrawal. The fact that neither Mr B nor the trustees raised any issue on receipt of the 
letters in July 2006 and November 2006 - which I am satisfied did make clear there was a 
chargeable gain and tax liability arising from the withdrawals  suggests that Mr B/the 
trustees didnt have an issue with tax being payable on the withdrawals and that they were 
already aware that tax would be payable.
The IFA has suggested that the November 2006 withdrawal could have been pushed into 
the next year of the bond  so it could have been taken in say January 2007 meaning the 
withdrawal would be taxed as falling into the following tax year. I acknowledge this was a 
possibility but even if the adviser had suggested this there is nothing to show Mr B wouldnt 
have chosen to take the money when he did in any event or that if he had put back the 
withdrawal this would have led to him being liable for less tax.
The IFA has also referred to the possibility that the withdrawals could have been through 
surrender of full segments with potentially different tax consequences. But I have seen no 
persuasive evidence that shows that the adviser did something wrong because the 
withdrawals were across all segments instead.
My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman