DRN-1615487
The complaint
Mr P has complained about monthly fees that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) charged him 
for a packaged bank account called a Current Account Plus and for a package of potential 
benefits, called a Tech Pack, which it added to a fee-free account. 
Mr P thinks that Barclays mis-sold both the Current Account Plus and the Tech Pack to him 
and that it should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
What happened
Barclays has checked its records for Mr P and has told us that it sold him the Current 
Account Plus during November 2008 and then switched him to a fee-free account in May 
2016. Its records show that it sold him the Tech Pack at the same time as it switched his 
account. I think that Barclays records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken them 
to be correct. 
When Mr P complained directly to Barclays, it agreed that it had mis-sold him the Current 
Account Plus and paid him some compensation, but it thought it had treated him fairly when 
it sold him the Tech Pack. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ps complaint. The adjudicator thought 
that the compensation Barclays had paid to Mr P for mis-selling him the Current Account 
Plus was fair and that it hadnt mis-sold him the Tech Pack.
.
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Ps complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr P and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Firstly, as Barclays has already agreed that it mis-sold the Current Account Plus to Mr P, for 
that account I have only looked at the compensation it paid to see if was fair, I havent 
considered anything about the sale itself.
When we uphold a complaint that a business mis-sold a packaged bank account, we 
normally tell the bank to refund the monthly fees and to add simple interest at the rate of 8% 
per year from the time the consumer paid the fee until the time of the refund. I have seen a 
summary of how Barclays worked out the compensation it paid to Mr P. It seems to have 
followed our approach.
Mr P has said that he thinks Barclays should refund him a further amount for mis-selling him 
the Current Account Plus to compensate him for any fees that could be imposed 
(unarranged overdraft and returned direct debit) as an effect of the monthly account fee 
being debited. However, I havent seen anything to show me that Barclays charged Mr P 
any such fees directly as a result of the Current Plus Account. So, I think the compensation 
Barclays has paid Mr P for mis-selling him the Current Account Plus was fair. 
Turning now to the way Barclays sold the Tech Pack to Mr P.
Around 2015 to 2016, for commercial reasons, Barclays decided to withdraw the Current 
Account Plus from its customers. Along with other banks, Barclays is allowed to make 
changes like this, but has to treat its customers fairly by giving them notice, telling them what 
is happening and giving them reasonable choices. Barclays has said it did this for Mr P. To 
support its case, it has sent us copies of two letters it wrote to him. 
 
Barclays sent the first letter to Mr P during March 2016. The letter told him that Barclays 
intended to switch him to a Barclays Bank Account with a Tech Pack. It told him how much 
the pack would cost and described in outline the features it would provide. It explained how 
these features compared to the potential benefits of the Current Account Plus and pointed 
out that there would be a price increase. It also told Mr P that he could opt out of the Tech 
Pack and that if he did so his account would become a Barclays Bank Account.with no 
monthly fee.... It described how could opt out either by visiting one of Barclays branches or 
by calling a particular phone number.
Barclays sent the second letter to Mr P during May 2016. This letter told Mr P that Barclays 
had changed his account and that it would start to charge him for the Tech Pack. It also told 
him that he could remove the pack from his account at any time and so have a fee-free 
account.
Both letters seem to have been correctly addressed and although Mr P has told us he cant 
remember receiving them, I think that in sending them Barclays met jts obligations to him. 
Mr P has said that if Barclays had never sold him the Current Account Plus, he may well 
have had had a fee-free account throughout, so despite the two letters he still thinks 
Barclays treated him unfairly when it added the Tech Pack to his account. I understand the 
point he is making. However, Barclays has already accepted its mistakes with the Current 
Account Plus and has compensated Mr P fairly. And taken together, its letters gave Mr P a 
clear choice to switch to a fee-free account and explained how he could do so. Irrespective 
of Barclays earlier mistake, I think this was fair. 
Mr P has told us that English is not his first language, and that Barclays did not provide a 
translation for him and so treated him unfairly as he didnt understand everything it said. Im 
not sure of the exact level of Mr Ps English, but I understand that he has as lived in the UK 
since around 2008. Barclays has told us that at times it had discussions with Mr P about his 
financial needs, his employment, and his hobbies, and that he never asked for a translation. 
I dont think Barclays had a sufficient reason to think that Mr P wouldnt be able to 
understand its letters. 
So, in summary, I think that Barclays has already compensated Mr P fairly for mis-selling 
him the Current Account Plus and also behaved reasonably when it switched him to a fee-
free account with a chargeable Tech Pack.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman