DRN-4439617
The complaint
Miss M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money was irresponsible when 
it offered her credit. 
What happened
Virgin Money opened a credit card account for Miss M in in April 2022 with a credit limit of 
£2,400. This type of credit was an open-ended or running account facility. I understand 
that  Miss M transferred a balance on opening the account and benefitted from a zero 
interest offer, and that the account wasnt in arrears as of June 2023. 
Miss M complained to Virgin Money earlier this year in February that it had been 
irresponsible to open the account for her because she couldnt afford the repayments and 
had to borrow to meet them. Miss M said that she had significant debts at the time, and 
that Virgin Money should have seen this and conducted further checks before lending to 
her. 
Virgin Money didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It said it relied on information shed 
provided along with information from her credit file, and there was nothing in the 
information it relied on to suggest that she was in financial difficulty. Virgin Money 
concluded that it acted correctly in opening the account for Miss M and providing her with 
£2,400 of credit. 
Miss M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. They found that Virgin Money conducted proportionate checks 
before opening the account for Miss M and that there wasnt anything in the checks which 
suggested that the credit would be unaffordable for her. 
Miss M disagreed with our investigators recommendation and asked for her complaint to 
come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out 
in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Virgin Money, need to 
abide by. Virgin Money will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is 
set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will 
summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, Virgin Money needed to check that Miss M could 
afford to repay the credit out of her usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit, for 
example the amount offered, and to Miss Ms particular circumstances. Ultimately, 
Virgin Money needed to treat Miss M fairly and take full account of her interests when 
making its lending decision. 
With this in mind, my considerations are did Virgin Money complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when it opened the account for Miss M to satisfy itself that she would 
be able to repay the credit offered within a reasonable period of time? If it didnt do this, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Virgin Money 
make a fair lending decision? 
Virgin Money recorded that Miss M had a gross income of £37,500 or a net monthly figure of 
£2,434 when she applied for credit. It checked this figure using a credit reference agency 
(CRA) tool which considers bank account turnover. Miss M said on her application that she 
paid £330 a month for her rent. Virgin Money estimated that Miss M spent £252 a month 
repaying her existing debts based on information from her credit file, plus an amount of £995 
on her essential living costs. This left Miss M with an estimated £857 each month and 
Virgin Money concluded that the credit card repayments would be affordable for her. 
The regulations at the time stated that it wasnt generally sufficient for a lender to rely solely 
on a customers statement of current income in a creditworthiness assessment. I appreciate 
that Virgin Money sense-checked what Miss M said about her income but I cant see that it 
considered her actual means. That said, Miss M has provided us with some bank statements 
from the time which show that her income was about what shed said in her application, and 
so further consideration of this figure wouldnt have revealed a significant inconsistency. 
Miss M told us that her expenses came to around £982 a month, plus her rent, which isnt 
very different from the figures Virgin Money relied on. 
Virgin Money said that there was no adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file and 
noted that she had existing unsecured debts amounting to £6,723 of which £6,138 was 
revolving credit. It provided us with a copy of the credit file information it relied on and Ive 
reviewed this and it does support Virgin Moneys analysis. 
Miss M shared with us that she was in financial difficulty and struggling to manage her 
escalating debt when the account was opened. She provided us with a recent copy of her 
credit file which showed she had significantly more debts at the time than revealed on 
Virgin Moneys credit check, including two recent large loans with combined monthly 
repayments of around £450. I dont know why the information Virgin Money saw differed 
from Miss Ms credit report. It may be that the information was provided by different CRAs. 
From Virgin Moneys perspective it had considered how much Miss M was paying towards 
her existing debts and how she was managing these. The regulations arent prescriptive 
about how lenders should conduct their checks and I cant say that Virgin Money should 
have done more here.
Altogether, Ive concluded that Virgin Money gathered sufficient information to conduct a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment. I havent seen anything in the information it 
gathered which I think should have prompted it to either decline to lend to Miss M or to ask 
for more information about her circumstances, given the level of credit it was offering. It 
follows that Ive found Virgin Money wasnt irresponsible to lend to Miss M on the basis of 
the information it had and so I am not upholding her complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss M. I am sorry to hear that things were 
so difficult for her and also that I am unable to provide the outcome she wishes. I would 
remind Virgin Money of its obligations to treat Miss M with forbearance and due 
consideration if she is struggling with her repayments, which may mean agreeing an 
affordable repayment plan for any outstanding balance. My final decision
As Ive explained above, I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money and dont require it to pay compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman