DRN-3119427
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) continued applying
charges to his account over a number of years when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr M held an overdraft on his account. He says that over the years Halifax applied charges
and interest to his account when he was in financial difficulty, making his overdraft more
difficult to repay. Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong, so Mr M referred his 
complaint to our service. On 23 September 2021 I issued a jurisdiction decision to say that 
we had the power to consider the complaint about the fees hed incurred after November 
2013.
Halifax accepted this decision. The adjudicator had issued an assessment recommending 
the merits of the complaint be upheld. She said that Halifax should refund all interest, fees 
and charges from September 2014. Halifax agreed  it said it would do the following:
-Refund the £2,346.66 of overdraft fees applied from September 2014 onwards (this 
figure takes into consideration any refund already made).
-Use this to first repay the £1,043.56 outstanding account balance and then the 
additional amount will be considered an overpayment and returned with 8% simple 
interest, minus tax, from the date they were made until date of settlement.
-Remove any negative information reporting against Mr Ms credit file in respect of this 
account.
-Provide the necessary notice of closure as the account has been abandoned by Mr 
M.
Mr M responded to say that he felt Halifax should pay him 8% simple interest on the full 
amount of the refund (£2,346.66) and not on what would be left after the overdraft debt was 
settled. The adjudicator explained that interest was only payable on any surplus monies after 
a debt was settled. But Mr M didnt accept this -  he wanted an ombudsman to review this 
issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what Halifax has offered to do to resolve Mr Ms complaint and Im not going to 
ask it to do more than what it has proposed. Ill explain why. 
Mr M has said he wants Halifax to pay interest on the whole amount of the overdraft fees, 
including the amount by which his account was overdrawn. He hasnt offered any reason 
why he thinks this would be appropriate. Having considered his request, Im satisfied 
Halifaxs current proposal is a fair remedy. Interest in this situation is designed to 
compensate someone who has been deprived the use of their own funds. But Mr M hasnt 
be deprived of the balance he owes Halifax  that was money hed borrowed. So, I dont 
think its appropriate to ask Halifax to pay interest on the portion of the refund needed to 
repay the outstanding balance he has.  
Putting things right
To put matters right, Halifax should:
-Refund the £2,346.66 of overdraft fees applied from September 2014 onwards (this 
figure takes into consideration any refund already made).
-Use this to first repay the £1,043.56 outstanding account balance and then the 
additional amount will be considered an overpayment and returned with 8% simple 
interest, minus tax, from the date they were made until date of settlement.
-Remove any negative information reporting against Mr Ms credit file in respect of this 
account.
-Provide the necessary notice of closure of the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Bank of Scotland plc to carry out a 
settlement in line with what has been detailed in the section putting things right. I dont 
require it to do anymore than this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman