DRN-2880192
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy the replacement TV Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) supplied to 
settle her claim under her equipment protection policy doesnt include a five year warranty.
Mrs Is husband acting on Mrs Is behalf, made the complaint. So, Ill refer to all 
representations made by Mr I.
 What happened
In August 2020 Mr I raised a claim on his wifes behalf in relation to their damaged TV. 
Initially D&G tried to repair the TV, however, they later agreed to supply a replacement as  
Mr I highlighted his wifes disability and said they didnt have another TV she could use. The 
relationship between Mr I and D&Gs engineers had also unfortunately broken down, as both 
sides gave conflicting testimony about the reasons why the repair hadnt been completed. 
After several negotiations and research on both sides, Mr I accepted a replacement TV to 
settle the claim. However, he later complained when he realised the TV only had a 12 month 
warranty. He didnt think this was right as he said the retailer D&G had used to source the 
TV offer a five year warranty on their website. He therefore asked D&G to take the TV away 
and allow him to choose a different one, or alternatively to provide him with the means to buy 
the same TV from the retailer directly. When they refused to do so, he raised a complaint 
and highlighted the fact hed paid over £2,000 towards the cost of the TV in the form of an 
upgrade fee. D&Gs position stayed the same in response, but they did pay £10 
compensation to say sorry for some poor customer service they provided during a call. 
Our investigator then considered the complaint and said he thought D&G had handled the 
claim fairly. He concluded the replacement TV was of a higher specification than the original 
TV, and D&G had done more than necessary by waiving £195 of the upgrade fee to help him 
secure it. He also explained that TVs provided in settlement of a claim wont always have 
the same warranty as TVs bought directly from a retailer. 
Finally, he concluded that D&G had made some customer service errors. However, he felt 
the fact they had already paid £10 compensation and waived part of the upgrade fee, meant 
they didnt need to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
 Mr I disagreed and in summary he said: 
Although hes upset about the customer service, his key concern is that the TV 
should be replaced as it doesnt have a five year warranty. 
He highlighted his belief that the retailer was providing a five year warranty when he 
asked D&G to order the TV, so the adviser should have corrected him, and said he 
was only going to be provided with a standard 12 month warranty.
A customer service adviser initially agreed to change the TV when he and his son 
made them aware of the problem. So, D&G shouldnt have changed their mind and 
should now allow them to change the TV.
As this didnt change things for our investigator, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has raised a second complaint with our service, on behalf of his wife in connection to 
this claim. However, as that complaint is being considered separately, I havent addressed it 
here.
I would firstly like to reassure Mr I and D&G that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments in the section above, I have read and considered everything 
provided about this complaint in its entirety
The starting position for claims of this nature is to consider the terms and conditions. They 
say: 
Any replacement equipment provided may be a refurbished product (of at least the 
same functionality) however we cannot guarantee that it will be the same make, 
model or colour as your original Equipment.
The terms also explain that in the event D&G cant source a suitable replacement, a voucher 
will be provided, so the policy holder can get a TV of a similar make and technical 
specification from a retailer of D&Gs choosing. 
Considering the above, Id reasonably expect D&G to source a TV of a similar quality and 
specification to the original, but this doesnt mean they need to supply an exact match for 
each feature of the TV.
From reviewing the claim notes, I can see several TVs were considered by Mr I and D&G, 
before he settled on his final choice. The first TV D&G offered him didnt have the exact 
same features, as the original in terms of the sound output or HDMI ports, but it did 
otherwise have a similar specification. As Mr I didnt wish to accept this TV, D&G offered to 
help him by waiving £195 of an upgrade fee, so he could get a different TV which he had 
suggested and had a higher specification. I also note that when Mr I declined that option, 
they agreed to apply the same deduction to other TVs, including Mr Is final choice which 
was a superior TV in many ways. As this TV had a bigger screen size, and a significantly 
higher technical specification and functionality than the damaged insured TV. 
Im satisfied D&G did more than required here, as under the above terms and conditions, 
they werent required to make any contribution towards a TV of a higher specification, or 
make any provision in terms of an extended warranty. Im also satisfied D&G presented Mr I 
with a reasonable option, which wouldnt have required him to pay an upgrade fee to settle 
the claim. Although the first TV they suggested didnt have the exact same features as the 
original TV, based on everything Ive considered, Im satisfied it was still of a similar quality 
and technical specification. Mr I could also have chosen a TV which had a significantly lower 
upgrade fee than the one he ultimately selected. I appreciate Mr I was very concerned about 
having a TV with one connection compatibility, and this formed a key part of his decision 
making process. However, as Ive explained above, D&G were under no obligation to source 
a TV that was an exact match for each feature of the original TV.
I appreciate Mr I feels strongly that the TV should have come with a five year warranty, and 
hes aware that he would have received this had he purchased the TV from the retailer 
directly. However, I dont think this is sufficent grounds for concluding the claim was handled 
unfairly. D&G were required to settle the claim either by repairing the TV, or by providing a 
suitable replacement and Im satisfied they did this here. They decided not to repair the TV despite maintaining that a repair may have been possible, and helped Mr I get a higher 
specification of TV by waiving £195 of the upgrade fee. It also isnt unusual that insurance 
companies wont be able to provide replacement items under the same terms, as if an item 
had been purchased directly, as they have commercial agreements with retailers to help 
them settle claims and keep premiums low. 
I note Mr Is upset that he was originally informed by customer service that it might be 
possible to return the TV. However, as he was then transferred to a different department 
which clarified things, Im satisfied D&G didnt unreasonably delay informing Mr I of their 
decision. Im also satisfied D&G werent required to replace the TV, simply because the first 
adviser incorrectly suggested this might be possible. But I do appreciate the conversation 
may have briefly raised Mr Is expectations, and I agree with him that the tone of the second 
adviser could have been more professsional. So, I think its right D&G have said sorry for the 
poor customer service they provided on that day. 
I also appreciate Mr I would have been disappointed when he found out the TV D&G 
sourced didnt include the warranty he was hoping for. However, as the five year warranty 
offer was only open to custmers who purchased the TV directy from the retailer, this isnt 
something D&G would have been able to provide. As per the terms and conditions, I also 
wouldnt reasonably have expected D&G to have provided a cash settlement, unless a 
suitable replacement TV couldnt be sourced directly, and Im satisfied that wasnt the case 
here as D&G were able to offer a number of options. As such, I hope Mr I can take some 
solace from the fact, it is unlikely he was ever going to be able to receive a five year 
warranty for the replacement TV he selected as part of the claim.  
Ive also carefully considered Mr Is comments about the statement he made to the adviser 
when he agreed for the TV to be ordered. I dont have a copy of the call recording, and I 
dont think its necessary to delay my decision by requesting it now. As Ive no reason to 
dispute Mr Is version of events, and Im satisfied the call recording is unlikely to change my 
decision. While I accept Mr I made a comment about his belief that the TV would have a five 
year warranty, hes also said the adviser didnt respond to this statement. As such, I think 
this was likely to have been a passing comment rather than a direct question. 
I would also reasonably have expected Mr I to have specifically asked for confirmation of the 
length of the warranty if this was a decision changer for him. In which case, the adviser 
would have been able to investigate his question and confirm the length of the warranty 
before the order was made. As he didnt do this, I dont think I can reasonably conclude the 
absence of a response from the adviser, consitutes D&G providing misleading information 
about the length of the warranty. It also isnt grounds for concluding D&G should reasonably 
change the replacement TV. As the TV they did provide was a reasonable replacement 
despite the length of the warranty.
As Ive already explained, even if Mr I had been told the TV was only going to have a 12 
month warranty, D&G wouldnt have been under any obligation to provide him with a cash 
settlement, so he could purchase the TV directly from a retailer. Mr I is also likely to disagree 
with me, but based on everthing that happened before the TV was ordered, I also think its 
likely he would have still ordered the same TV despite the length of the warranty. As he was 
happy with the technical specification, and the evidence suggests this was his key priority 
throughout all of the discussions about the suggested replacement TVs.
In summary, I dont think D&G should do anything more to resolve this complaint as they 
considered the claim fairly and reasonably. I appreciate Mr I is unhappy the replacement TV 
didnt come with a five year warranty and feels very strongly about this. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, Im satisfied D&G were under no obligation to provide a TV that had an 
extended warranty. Based on the goodwill gestures D&G have already made to help settle this claim, and the 
fact they have already paid £10 in compensation, I also dont think D&G should do anything 
more to compensate Mrs I for any distress, their poor customer service may have indirectly 
caused her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman