DRN-3163676
The complaint
Ms C (through a representative) complains Short Term Finance Limited (STF) lent to her 
irresponsibly because it didnt carry out proper affordability checks or assess her overall 
indebtedness.   
What happened
In total Ms C was given 11 home collected loans between August 2016 and December 2019. 
Ive included some of the information this Service has received from STF about the lending 
in the table below: 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)
1 £100.00 02/08/2016 08/11/2016 15
2 £150.00 08/11/2016 03/01/2017 16
3 £200.00 03/01/2017 28/04/2017 16
4 £250.00 04/07/2017 30/10/2017 16
5 £350.00 30/10/2017 16/02/2018 16
6 £150.00 27/11/2017 25/05/2018 25
7 £450.00 19/06/2018 12/10/2018 16
8 £100.00 30/08/2018 16/01/2019 23
9 £200.00 16/01/2019 07/06/2019 16
10 £200.00 30/08/2019 20/12/2019 16
11 £200.00 20/12/2019 09/04/2020 16
In response to Ms Cs complaint STF issued its final response letter in February 2021. In the 
response it explained that Ms C had taken a total of 11 loans between 2016 and 2019. STF 
didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
STF said the checks it carried out were proportionate, there were no signs of financial 
difficulties and there was nothing concerning in the credit file data that STF was provided 
with. Unhappy with this response, Ms Cs representatives referred her complaint to this 
Service.   
The adjudicator, reviewed Ms Cs complaint and she thought STF had acted reasonably 
when it approved loans 1  4. She also thought that by loan 5, STF ought to have been 
verifying the information Ms C declared to it about her situation. But the adjudicator didnt 
have anything from Ms C to demonstrate what her financial position was at the time which 
meant she couldnt make a finding on whether STF had made a mistake. 
However, the adjudicator thought, that loans from and including loan 6 shouldnt have been 
granted. In her view, the overall pattern of lending was now harmful for Ms C and so these 
loans ought to not have been provided. 
Ms C appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
STF disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, it said;
there was no nothing wrong in the way STF dealt with Ms C,
it adhered to all the regulations that were applicable at the time,
it was only from November 2018 that STF had the ability for the agents to keep any 
evidence they gathered as part of the application, for example bank statements and
there some breaks in lending between loan 6 and 7 of nearly a month and a 12 week 
break between loan 9 and 10 which further shows Ms C wasnt reliant on this lending.  
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
There doesnt appear to be any ongoing disagreement about the outcome the adjudicator 
reached about loans 1  5. So, I no longer think these loans are in dispute and so I wont be 
making a finding on them. Instead, this decision will focus on what happened when loans 6  
11 were lent. But Ive kept in mind loans 1- 5 because they form part of Ms Cs lending 
history with STF. 
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C could
repay her loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest STF should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include: 
Ms C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ms C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms C. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.At the time loan these loans were granted STF was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, which has set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Ms Cs complaint.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6 - 11 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. 
But its worth saying STF has provided this Service with a detailed income and expenditure 
information it gathered form Ms C before it advanced these loans. And from loan 9 it looks 
like further and more detailed information was gathered. 
This seems to be in response to the change in process and new system that STF has told us 
that it had in place from November 2018. I can see that on these reports, there is reference 
to credit reports. So, it seems that the figure for certain categories STF was able to confirm 
the information from Ms Cs credit report, for example, loan 9, for other home credit STF has 
recorded as £47.
I would say, that based on the details in the application form and the later income and 
expenditure assessments, STF couldve have reasonably concluded that Ms C would be in a 
position to afford the repayments she was committed to making. 
But Id also be inclined to think, like the adjudicator that from loan 5, STFs checks really 
needed to go further. At this point in the lending relationship  given the increase in lending, I 
think STF ought to have been verifying Ms Cs income and overall expenditure in order to 
have an accurate understanding of her actual financial position. I dont think it did this level 
of checks for all of Ms Cs loans. But I dont have enough information to be able to make a 
finding as to whether better checks wouldve changed STFs decision to lend. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter, on top of carrying out a proportionate checks STF 
also need to be mindful as to whether the loans were sustainable for Ms C, not just whether 
they were pounds and pence affordable. 
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Ms C, STF also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Ms C. 
Having looked at the overall pattern of STFs lending history with Ms C, I agree with our 
adjudicator that STF should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 6. I say this because;
At this point STF ought to have realised Ms C was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms C had taken out six loans in 15 months and she had been indebted 
to STF for most of that time. Ms Cs loan history up until this point clearly indicated 
that her underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving. 
Ms Cs capital borrowing had increased from £100 at loan 1 to £150 by loan 6. But 
loan 5 was still outstanding at the time loan 6 was granted. So, her overall 
indebtedness was significantly larger than the capital sum borrowed for this loan. This suggests to me that Ms Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably, and 
she was likely needing further borrowing to cover ongoing living costs. 
Ms C developed a pattern of taking new loans around the same time previous ones 
were repaid, for example, loans 5 and 6. And later on in the lending relationship Ms C 
had more than one loan running at the same time. This pattern continued throughout 
the lending relationship. So, STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Ms C, on these occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-
term financial need. To me, this is also indicative of her indebtedness not being 
sustainable.
Ms C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed STF. Loan 11 was 
taken out more than three years after Ms Cs first loan. Loan 11 was for twice the 
amount as Ms Cs first loan. Ms C had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to STF over an extended period.
STF has explained that there are some gaps in lending especially between loans 9 and 10. 
Ive thought about these breaks in lending, but I dont think they are long enough when taken 
into the overall lending relationship to be able to conclude that this was the start of a new 
and distinct lending chain. And, when Ms C did return she borrowed the same amount of 
money. So, in this case, these breaks that have been highlighted dont alter my view on 
which loans should be upheld. 
I think that Ms C lost out when STF provided loans 6 - 11 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Cs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and the time in debt was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 - 11 and Ill go on to set out
what STF should do to put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms C from loan 6 as I think it ought to. 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there and 
not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between 
her and STF which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant 
way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Ms C loans 6 - 11.
A. STF should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans. 
B. STF should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. STF should pay Ms C A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Cs borrowing for loans 6 - 11 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so STF should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Cs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Ms C a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint in part.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman