DRN-3390317
The complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) unfairly recorded a 
second windscreen repair claim against his policy and charged him another excess. He says 
the second claim resulted from poor workmanship during the first claim.  
What happened
Mr T has a motor insurance policy with Admiral which includes windscreen cover. In 
December 2021 Mr Ts windscreen was cracked and he claimed on the policy for a 
replacement. Admirals approved repairer fitted a new windscreen on the vehicle within a few 
days, on 16 December 2016. 
Soon after, Mr T noticed a crack in the replacement windscreen and called Admiral. He 
thought the crack was connected to recent installation, so a warranty claim was submitted in 
January 2022. A technician at Admirals approved repairer reviewed the crack and said it 
had been caused by a new impact  meaning the second replacement windscreen would 
need a separate claim (rather than being covered under the warranty for the first 
installation). 
Mr T didnt agree with the technicians assessment and complained to Admiral. In its final 
response, Admiral said it didnt think the damage was caused by poor workmanship, given 
the new impact the technician had reported. So the insurer felt it had acted fairly by replacing 
the windscreen under a second claim. Unhappy with the response, Mr T referred the 
complaint to our service for review.
An Investigator here considered everything and thought it was reasonable Admiral relied on 
the technicians assessment, given their expertise in windscreen repairs. The Investigator 
also didnt think there was enough evidence for us to refute it. Mr T didnt accept the 
Investigators opinion and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint  and Ive explained why below. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, who I know feels very strongly about 
this matter  but hopefully the explanation of how I reached my outcome is helpful. 
Mr T and his representative have researched cracks online, and Ive seen the same 
information they are relying on  that the crack here looks like it could be a stress crack. One 
possible cause of stress cracks is installation issues, but there are others  including 
expansion/contraction of the glass due to changes in temperature. The information I saw 
also suggested there wouldnt be any sign of impact in a stress crack. In order to uphold the 
complaint, Id need to be persuaded that Admiral ought to have concluded poor 
workmanship is what likely caused this crack. So Ive weighed up the evidence we have.
Mr T accepts there were marks on the broken windscreen. Its acknowledged within his 
submissions that, once pointed out by the technician, he noticed three small indentations on 
the glass, with one on the crack line itself. Mr T has since said he doesnt think they looked 
like impact points, and instead were white marks that could have been caused during the 
initial installation process. The technician has said he considered them to be marks caused 
by a new impact  and made that assessment with the benefit of inspecting the crack/marks 
up close in person (something any report subsequently done from pictures alone would 
lack). I find the marks are clearly visible in the photographs. So, given both parties accept 
they had some (albeit shallow) depth, and I can see one is on the crack line, Im persuaded 
they are more likely than not indications of an impact. 
Mr T believes it would be very usual for a stone to create three separate marks, but we dont 
know it was a stone that created the marks  and the repairer has commented that it sees a 
wide variety of impact marks (not just the type Mr T might have been expecting). The 
technician has said this impact is on the black band of the windscreen which contains the 
most stress in the glass manufacturing process, and it being struck by an object will result in 
instant failure (cracking) in most cases. Ive also factored Mr Ts testimony that there was a 
frost around this time, and what hes said about the crack starting small and getting bigger. 
That sounds like the result of a small impact could have been acerbated by temperature 
fluctuations. So, overall, I find the technicians account to be a plausible explanation, bearing 
in mind Ive accepted there was likely an impact, for how this crack occurred. 
Mr T has said that up until now weve ignored his testimony, that the marks werent caused 
by an impact, in favour of someone elses. I have considered what hes said, but I find the 
technicians explanation to be more persuasive in this case, for the reasons I set out above. 
Mr T has also said we havent scrutinised or challenged the training and qualifications of the 
technician  and we dont seem to have the remit to find against an experts opinion. But 
thats not correct  I would be free to decide the technicians assessment wasnt reliable, and 
he wasnt sufficiently qualified to make it, Ive just not seen anything that persuades me 
thats the case here. 
I appreciate this happening twice to Mr T within a matter of weeks is unlucky. But I dont 
agree its implausible to the point of causing me to question its possibility  and, as Ive said, 
I find the evidence points to there likely having been an impact. I also accept that Admiral 
initially agreeing to book in a repair under the warranty wouldve given Mr T hope that a 
second claim might not be needed. But I consider it was reasonable for the insurer to 
proceed with things, taking what Mr T said on face value, until directed otherwise by the 
results of the inspection by the repairer. 
Taking account of all of the above, I find Admiral acted fairly and reasonably when it 
accepted the windscreen replacement was the result of a new impact. Therefore, it follows 
that I think it was reasonable for the repairs to have been done under a separate claim, 
requiring its own excess to be paid.  My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about how Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited handled his second windscreen replacement claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman