DRN-3492317
The complaint
Mr N complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his claim when he
required assistance after an accident, under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr N was involved in an accident when driving his car. He contacted Admiral
and spoke to its out of hours call handling service. He was told a recovery truck had been
arranged to collect his car. Mr N says the call handler also told him the recovery driver would
be able to provide him with transportation, and hed be sent a text message with the
expected time of arrival.
Mr N says he didnt receive a text message. When he called for an update, he was spoken
to abruptly by the out of hours call handler. He says that when the recovery driver arrived, he
was told only his car could be recovered due to Covid-19 restrictions. This meant he was left
stranded and had to arrange his own transport.
Admiral says Mr Ns policy provides recovery to the nearest point of safety with onward
transportation links. But during the pandemic its recovery drivers werent obliged to transport
customers within the recovery vehicle. It says Mr N shouldve been told this over the phone
and apologises if this didnt happen.
Admiral says that due to an I.T. upgrade no call recordings exist to verify what was
discussed between its call handlers and Mr N. It says in the interest of fairness it upholds his
complaint and apologises if the level of customer service Mr N received was below the
standard it aims to provide. It offered £30 in compensation.
Mr N didnt think this response acknowledged the frustration and distress caused by the poor
standard of service he received. He emphasised that this was at a time when he was in a
vulnerable position, in the middle of nowhere at night with no street lighting having just been
involved in an accident. Mr N referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. She thought it was right for Admiral to apologise and
provide compensation for its poor service. But she didnt think this payment was sufficient
and thought a total payment of £60 was fairer.
Mr N didnt accept this outcome. He didnt think all his issues had been addressed. This
includes a lack of communication and failure to call back when requested, a two-month delay
in having his complaint responded to due to an email issue, and a general lack of care when
responding to him including spelling his name incorrectly. Mr N asked for an ombudsman to
review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N raised a number of issues with Admiral. He hasnt included all these issues in his
complaint to our service. My focus here is on the complaint issues that relate to the out of
hours call handling service. Mr N received a separate complaint response from the company
that operates the call handling service. But Admiral provides Mr N with this service as part of
his motor insurance policy. So, its ultimately responsible for the service provided by its out
of hours call handler. I will refer to Admiral throughout my decision.
Mr N raised a number of concerns that relate to delays and poor service in the handling of
his complaint about the roadside assistance he received. Im sorry to hear of his poor
experience, which includes the mis-spelling of his name. I can understand this must have
been frustrating. However, handling complaints is not a regulated activity in itself. While Im
sorry to hear about the difficulty Mr N had in obtaining a response through Admirals
complaint process, I cant consider these points.
In its response to Mr Ns complaint Admiral says his policy provides for recovery to the
nearest point of safety with onward transportation links. I have read the policy terms
provided but cant find any further information to confirm whats expected. Based on what
Admiral says Mr Ns policy should have provided him with transportation after his accident. I
acknowledge pandemic restrictions were in force at the time and this meant it wasnt
possible for Mr N to travel in the recovery vehicle. I wouldnt expect Admiral to do anything
that put its staff in danger. But I do think it couldve offered a reasonable alternative for him
to be transported to the nearest point of safety with onward transport.
There are no call recordings available, but I have no reason to doubt Mr Ns recollection that
he was told transportation would be provided or that he was spoken to abruptly when calling
for an update on the recovery truck. In addition, Admiral doesnt dispute that Mr N didnt
receive a text message as promised, confirming the recovery drivers time of arrival. When
considering all this Mr Ns view that he received a poor standard of service is persuasive.
I have thought about the impact Admirals poor service had on Mr N.
He was left in an unfamiliar area, having just been involved in an accident. This occurred at
night on a road with no street lighting. I can understand why he found this distressing and felt
let down by Admiral. Mr N had to arrange a taxi, which I think couldve been arranged sooner
had he been made aware he couldnt travel in the recovery truck. Its also clear Admiral
didnt offer an alternative transport solution or assistance to Mr N.
Having considered all of this I dont think Admiral treated Mr N fairly. It was reasonable to
offer him an apology and compensation. But I dont think £30 is fair given the distress and
inconvenience Mr N was caused. I think a payment for £150 is fairer, minus any payment
already made.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ns complaint and Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
should:
- pay Mr N £150 compensation in total for the poor service provided.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.Admiral responded to say that it had already paid £160 compensation to Mr N and didnt 
think it needed to pay anymore. 
Mr N responded to say his complaint wasnt about Admiral but about the out of hours service 
provider. He says his complaint relates to customer service and the lies he was told. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Admiral paid Mr N £160 in response to the issues it investigated as part 
of Mr Ns complaint. But in its final response letter it confirmed it wasnt going to consider the 
role the out of hours service played in Mr N not being given transportation. It referred this 
point to its out of hours service along with the point Mr N raised about not receiving a text 
message.
I considered these issues in my provisional decision. I explained that Mr Ns policy was with 
Admiral not its out of hours service. So, although there may be an agreement between 
Admiral and its provider that it handles its own complaints, Admiral provides this service as 
part of its motor insurance policy. So, Admiral is responsible for the service provided. 
I said I didnt think it was fair that no provision was made or offered to Mr N for 
transportation, to the nearest point of safety with onward transport as required by his 
policy. I had no reason to doubt Mr Ns testimony that he was told he could expect transport 
or that he was spoken to abruptly by the out of hours call handler or that he should expect an 
SMS message, which wasnt sent.
Mr N was left in a vulnerable position. He had just been involved in an accident, it was dark, 
there was no street lighting and the he was in an unfamiliar area. I thought it was reasonable 
to expect that Mr N shouldve received a better standard of service, and assistance with 
transportation. Mr N was offered £30 compensation for this part of his complaint. I didnt 
think this was adequate to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience Admiral had 
caused. I thought a total payment of £150 for this aspect of his complaint was fairer. 
Having considered the further comments provided, Im not persuaded that my decision 
needs to change. Admiral didnt address these points in its complaint response. So, I think 
its fair it provides the compensation as set out in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. Admiral Insurance Company Limited should:
-pay Mr N £150 compensation in total for the poor service provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman