DRN-4387153
The complaint
Miss N complains about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with her travel insurance 
claim.
Any reference to Great Lakes includes those assisting on its behalf. 
What happened
Miss N made a claim on her travel insurance policy in November 2021. Shed fallen over 
whilst abroad in a country Ill call B, sustained an injury which required surgery, and 
needed help in arranging her return to the UK afterwards. 
Great Lakes accepted Miss Ns claim and once she was declared fit to fly arranged her 
return home. It also went on to pay a medical bill in December 2021 and out of pocket 
expenses in March 2022. 
However, in May 2022 Miss N told Great Lakes the hospital in B had made her aware that 
an invoice hadnt been settled. Great Lakes said itd paid all the costs that had been claimed 
for and asked for a copy of the outstanding invoice. However, when that invoice remained 
unpaid by November 2022 Miss N complained. 
Miss N said shed provided everything required of her and had been patient with Great 
Lakes. She said she was now being chased by the hospital directly despite being told Great 
Lakes and the hospital would liaise with each other, and her mother (who lived in B and was 
her next of kin) had been contacted by the hospital too. Miss N said the impact of the delay 
and the contact in relation to the outstanding invoice was causing her extreme distress and 
she had become fearful the matter would not be sorted.
Great Lakes acknowledged there had been a lack of management of the claim after Miss N 
had completed her treatment. It noted multiple emails from her werent recorded, acted on, 
or responded to, which excessively delayed the claims resolution. It said invoices werent 
followed up, and there was no urgency once Miss N had provided the outstanding invoice 
either. Great Lakes also said that had more been done earlier in the claim, there was a 
reasonable expectation that further invoices could have been directed to it from the hospital 
correctly. 
Great Lakes apologised for the delays and the stress and inconvenience caused. It also 
confirmed all costs had since been settled. But Miss N remained unhappy with what had 
happened and asked this service to consider her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had progressed the claim promptly or fairly. They 
acknowledged it had apologised for its delays and had since paid the outstanding invoice, 
but they thought compensation for the impact caused should be awarded too and 
recommended £150.
Great Lakes agreed with that recommendation, but Miss N did not. She said a larger award 
would be more reasonable and £150 wasnt enough to recognise the months of constant 
stress, worry and anxiety caused. So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed 
to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision explain why I was I thought a higher award of compensation 
was warranted. That decision forms part of this final decision, and it read as follows:
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too am intending to uphold this complaint, but I think an increased award of compensation 
is warranted for the following reasons:
Great Lakes had a responsibly to handle Miss Ns claim both promptly and fairly. It 
did not do that here and has already acknowledged there were excessive delays in 
and a lack of management of this claim. I need not detail each individual failing again 
because of that, but I do think it was right of Great Lakes to recognise what went 
wrong and apologise for it. 
That Great Lakes failings impacted Miss N is not disputed. Miss N has detailed the 
impact she says she felt and in summary has explained: 
oShe was stressed, worried and anxious about the lack of communication from 
Great Lakes. The matter had been going on for months and she was 
increasingly frustrated as time went on too. 
oNot only was she worried about the outstanding invoice, but she was further 
distressed that the hospital had contacted her and also her mother who lived 
in B directly. That should not have happened. It was Great Lakes that owed 
the money, it should have been liaising with the hospital, and she should not 
have been put in the position that she was. 
oShe was fearful that the invoice would not go on to be settled given the 
previous issues she experienced with delays and sustained lack of 
communication. She was concerned about the potential of any non-payment 
causing her and her mother financial damage too. And she wanted to go back 
to her normal life without the worry of debt collectors and/or an ongoing claim 
where money was owed.
I find Miss Ns account both plausible and persuasive  especially in view of the 
excessive delays and failings already accepted and the amount of the outstanding 
invoice itself (in excess of $29,000). As Great Lakes handling of matters caused 
Miss N both additional and unnecessary distress and inconvenience, I think an award 
of compensation to recognise that is fair. 
Compensation is intended to represent a fair and proportionate reflection of the 
impact of a business mistake on someone. I dont think £150 represents that in the 
circumstances of this complaint and agree that an increased amount is warranted. 
Im not persuaded the full increase Miss N has suggested (up to £1,500) would be 
fair or proportionate. I say this because compensation isnt intended to be punitive. 
Despite its failings Great Lakes had accepted liability for Miss Ns claim and had 
gone on to make some payments. I dont think Great Lakes actively led Miss N to 
believe that she would be liable for the cost of the outstanding invoice. And it did 
apologise for the delays in both acting on the invoice and settling it.
Currently, I think an award of £400 compensation represents a fair and proportionate 
reflection of the impact of Great Lakes mistakes. 
Responses to the provisional decisionMiss N said she was happy with the outcome. 
Great Lakes said some of the delay had occurred because the value of the invoice kept 
changing, but it appreciated it could have provided Miss N with further updates to reassure 
her that the bills were being negotiated for settlement. It said it could not be held 
accountable for the treating hospital contacting Miss N and her mother directly however, 
because it had no authority over which facilities adopted bill settlement protocols. 
As both sides have now responded I need to reach my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as my provisional decision so let me 
explain why. 
Great Lakes is correct, it is not responsible for the actions of the treating hospital in B and 
the award I explained I was intending to reach in my provisional decision was not based on it 
being so. I was however mindful that within its final response letter to Miss N Great Lakes 
had said: 
Had they followed up with their cost containment company to ensure payment there is a 
reasonable expectation that the billing company could have become aware of them and 
correctly directed further invoices.
So while Im not holding Great lakes responsible for the actions of the treating hospital in B, 
there does appear to have been more it could have done to reduce some of the impact that 
was eventually caused to Miss N. 
Great Lakes has acknowledged it could have provided Miss N with further updates to 
reassure her that the bills were being negotiated for settlement too. I am pleased it has done 
so. But taking everything into account, for both the reasons given here and within my 
provisional decision, I am still of the opinion that Great Lakes caused Miss N additional and 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
As I set out before, any compensation I award needs to be a fair and proportionate reflection 
of the impact of Great Lakes mistakes. And in the specific circumstances of this complaint I 
remain of the opinion that £400 represents that. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes should put things right by paying £400 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things 
right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Jade AlexanderOmbudsman