DRN-1363307
 
The complaint
Mr O, Mr O and Mrs O complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to 
turn down a claim Mr O made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O had some diving apparatus which he stored in his garage. He discovered these items 
had gone missing.  So he made a claim to Lloyds in January 2019. He also got in touch with 
the Police. He said he wasnt sure when the theft had happened, but it couldve been at any 
point between Christmas 2017 and Christmas 2018. He said hed been in hospital during 
that time. 
Lloyds investigated Mr Os claim. It didnt think there was any evidence that force and 
violence had been used to get into the garage, so it originally turned down the claim on this 
basis. Mr O sent in an invoice from a specialist company which said a cloned key fob 
couldve been used to get in, but that it couldnt make a finding either way.
So Lloyds continued to investigate Mr Os claim. It asked him for medical records which 
showed how long hed been in hospital. And it asked him for receipts showing when hed 
bought the two items hed claimed for.
Mr O sent Lloyds two invoices for the two items. One was invoiced to a business name. The 
other was made out to Mr O. Lloyds turned down the claim for the first piece of equipment 
because it didnt think it had belonged to Mr O  it thought it belonged to the company 
named as the buyer on the invoice. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr O sent Lloyds a second copy of the invoice, this time made out to him 
rather than to the business name. So Lloyds asked Mr O to provide it with evidence that hed 
paid for the diving apparatus from his own bank account. Mr O said he wasnt able to get this 
information. He did provide some medical evidence which showed hed been admitted to 
hospital as an inpatient, but this evidence post-dated his claim.
Lloyds turned down Mr Os claim. It thought the items had been used in connection with Mr 
Os job and had been used for business purposes. This is specifically excluded by the terms 
of Mr Os policy. It didnt think hed provided enough evidence to show hed owned the things 
hed claimed for in a personal capacity.
Mr O wasnt happy with Lloyds decision. So he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show the thief had used force and violence to get into the garage. He 
didnt feel there was enough evidence to support Mr Os recollections of the time and the 
circumstances. And he didnt think thered been an unreasonable delay in Lloyds looking at 
the claim.Mr O disagreed. He said the company that was listed on the first invoice had never existed. 
So he said the invoice had been made out wrongly and a replacement had been sent which 
showed he was the buyer. He said due to a medical condition, he isnt allowed to dive. He 
couldnt provide evidence of payment from his bank because hes in dispute with it, but hed 
given Lloyds permission to do so. He maintained the garage had been broken into.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for 
Lloyds to turn down this claim. Ill explain why.
Mr Os made this claim under the contents section of his policy. So Ive looked closely at 
what his policy covers.  The policy says:
What we dont cover
Any articles used or held for business or professional purposes...other than clerical office 
equipment.
The policy also says that a policyholder must be able to substantiate their loss  such as 
providing original receipts, invoices or bank statements, amongst other items.
So for Mr Os claim to be covered, Lloyds needs to be satisfied that it was down to 
something covered by the policy and that Mr O owned the items he claimed for. 
Ive seen a copy of the police report detailing the circumstances of the theft. Mr O also got 
out an engineer to inspect the garage door. So I think it seems likely there was a theft under 
the terms of Mr Os policy.
But Lloyds also needs to be satisfied that Mr Os claiming for items that belonged to him and 
that were owned for personal, rather than business use.
Mr O originally sent Lloyds an invoice for one of the items which named a business as the 
buyer.  Lloyds notes suggest Mr O told it that this had been his old company, which was no 
longer trading. He said that hed bought the items privately, but as he did a lot of business 
with the seller, theyd put the business name as the buyer on the invoice. Mr O then sent 
Lloyds another copy of the invoice, this time made out to him. 
Given the discrepancies in the names on the invoices and given that one of the buyer names 
was a business, it seems reasonable that Lloyds wanted further information from Mr O about 
this item. It asked him for a bank statement to show hed paid for the item himself from his 
own account. This would show Mr O had likely bought the apparatus in a personal capacity.
But Mr O hasnt been able to provide this information. Hes told us hes in a dispute with his 
bank and that hes given Lloyds permission to get his statements. This isnt something 
Lloyds is able to do though  any request needs to come from Mr O. The fact he may be in 
dispute with his bank doesnt prevent him for asking for information about his account from it.
Mr Os now told us that the business named on the first invoice as the buyer was never a 
company that existed. This seems to differ from what it appears he initially told Lloyd when it 
looked into his claim. Based on what Ive seen, I can understand why Lloyds has concerns that this piece of 
apparatus was owned for business reasons rather than personal ones. And I also think it 
was fair for Lloyds to ask for further proof of ownership for this item. 
Ive then thought about the second item Mr O claimed for  a piece of clothing used not just 
by divers, but also by those who work or play in or near water. Mr O has provided an invoice 
for this item, which is made out to him. So I think it looks like Mr O did own this item.
But Mr O has told us he isnt able to dive, so it isnt clear why he would personally own diving 
apparatus that he isnt able to use. It does seem though that this type of item could be used 
in the course of his employment. And given Lloyds wider concerns about the claim as a 
whole, I can understand why Lloyds believes this item was owned for business reasons.
Overall, it seems to me that based on the evidence it has at the moment, it was fair for 
Lloyds to turn down Mr Os claim based on the fact it believes the items were owned for 
business reasons. This simply isnt covered by the terms of Mr Os policy. 
I can see Lloyds has left it open to Mr O to provide more information in support of his claim  
such as bank statements to show that he paid for the equipment from his personal account. 
It made this clear in its final response letter and its previously told Mr O about its other 
concerns about his claim. So I think its down to Mr O to decide if he wants to approach his 
bank to get the information Lloyds has asked him for. Its also open to him to see if hes able 
to obtain any medical information to show the duration of any hospital stay in 2017-18. He 
can then send this on to Lloyds to look at.
In the round, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to turn down Mr Os claim based on the 
information hes provided so far and its overall concerns. So Im not telling it to do anything 
more.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O, Mrs O and 
Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman