DRN-2874311
The complaint
Mr W complains that John Lewis Financial Services Ltd (JLFS) blocked his and his partners 
cards.
What happened
On 15 December 2020, JLFS texted Mr W about a suspicious transaction undertaken in 
Japan - on his John Lewis card. Mr W texted back to confirm it wasnt his. JLFS blocked his 
card and arranged to send a replacement. They then also blocked his partners card and 
sent a replacement.
Mr W called JLFS on 16 December 2020 and 17 December 2020.  He and his partner were 
left without cards eight days before Christmas and had no other credit cards to use. This was 
very inconvenient. He said the block on the cards was for the benefit of JLFS, not himself 
and his partner. The replacements took longer to arrive than the promised three working 
days advised by JLFS. He wanted them to be couriered to him within a day.  He said the 
service provided by JLFS was poor and said that John Lewis should review its relationship 
with HSBC (the parent company of JLFS) as the service was damaging John Lewis 
reputation.
On 18 December 2020, JLFS said that Mr Ws card had been blocked as the transaction in 
Japan was considered fraudulent  and the card details had therefore likely been disclosed. 
In the circumstances, they also blocked the card of Mr Ws partner, the additional cardholder 
as an additional precaution  but they also said it was an error to do this. JLFS didnt offer a 
one-day courier service for replacement cards, but they were being despatched shortly 
thereafter. They paid compensation of £75  and offered a further £75  which Mr W 
rejected and said he wanted £750 for what had happened  which he would donate to 
charity. JLFS confirmed that they were a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC UK Bank plc.  
But they wouldnt discuss the commercial relationship further.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said that JLFS had a right to 
block a card in its terms and conditions  where fraudulent activity was suspected. He said 
the cards were blocked to protect customers accounts. And therefore, JLFS were entitled to 
do that. He considered the timescale of three working days for replacement cards to be OK. 
It was unfortunate that the actual delivery if the cards took longer than this  but that may 
have been outside of JLFS control. He thought the compensation offered of £75 (paid) and 
a further £75 (offered) was right. He said the relationship between HSBC and JLFS was a 
commercial issue and not something this service can comment on.
Mr W asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sense Mr Ws frustration  he received a text about a suspected fraudulent transection 
on his card in Japan, just before Christmas. He replied immediately to say it wasnt his  and 
then both his and his partners cards were blocked. They were left without them at an 
important time and didnt get them in the three working day period JLFS promised. He said 
the service provided by JLFS was poor in dealing with the issues and said that JLFS should 
review its relationship with HSBC. 
Let me say that like our investigator  Im not going to comment on the commercial 
relationship between JLFS and HSBC - thats not within the remit for this service.
I can see that Mr W replied to the text on 15 December 2020 to say the transaction wasnt 
his  and that JLFS then blocked but his card and his partners card. JLFS right to do this is 
contained in their terms and conditions which include: We may refuse to authorise a 
transaction and cancel or suspend use of the account and refuse to replace or reissue a 
card if authorising the transaction would cause a breach of this agreement or put us in 
breach of any legal requirements that apply to us or we reasonably:
b. suspect fraudulent or unauthorised use of the account;
c. consider it necessary for the security of the account or card;
d. suspect that you, any additional cardholder or third party has committed or is about to 
commit a crime or other abuse in connection with use of the card or the account.
Its a fact that financial crime is escalating around the world and JLFS, like all banks, have 
processes in place to prevent it. And  they protect both the bank and customers. Mr W 
argues that he wouldnt have had to stand any losses on his card  and that may be the 
case, depending on the circumstances. But if, for example, there had followed a series of 
high value, fraudulent transactions on his card  for most customers, this would be very 
upsetting and disconcerting. And  if banks dont block cards and allow transactions to be 
made, then this encourages more financial crime to take place. This doesnt only affect the 
banks concerned, but wider society. So  banks take the view that any suspected fraud  as 
in this case  should lead to a block on the card.
Normally, JLFS wouldnt also block the additional cardholders card  but Ive seen their 
notes  on this occasion they did so as a precaution. And theyve apologised for the 
inconvenience in that regard.
Mr W had commented that he thinks the service from JLFS was poor. But as I see it, they 
took the right measures and in line with their terms and conditions, and banking practice. 
And  when he complained to JLFS on 18 December 2020 - they dealt with his issues the 
same day. 
I completely understand the frustration and inconvenience felt by Mr W for what happened. 
Hes said he had to use a debit card instead  so as I see it, the issues he faced werent 
insurmountable. He wants more compensation. JLFS have paid £75 so far and have offered 
another £75  so £150 in total. The amount of compensation is of course a subjective one. 
But - I have to say that £150 is about the right amount of compensation that this service 
would expect to see in these circumstances.
I can appreciate and sense that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going 
to ask JLFS to do anymore here. JLFS have confirmed that their offer of a further £75 still 
stands, and if Mr W wishes to accept this, he should get in touch with them.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman