DRN-3447394
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2014, Mr B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr B decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In August 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr B or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view, and asked to see the audit history log for 
Ps written quote (on which the adjudicator had relied) to verify that Mr B had signed it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Who is eligible to complain?
Mr B made his loan repayments by direct debit from a joint account he holds with his wife. 
The CMC initially brought the section 75 claim on behalf of both Mr B and his wife (and 
although only Mr B has signed our complaint form, the CMC referred in its correspondence 
with our service to its clients in the plural). But as Mrs B was not a party to the loan 
agreement, only Mr B is eligible to bring this complaint under the FCA rules which set out our 
services jurisdiction.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan (which Shawbrook denies), to argue that section 140A applies.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled System Performance and 
Returns. Ive considered these, along with Mr Bs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr B, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. I therefore havent considered it necessary to ask 
Shawbrook for more evidence in this instance. So, Ive taken the quote into account, along with Mr Bs version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments
Mr B has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as 
Mr Bs recollections of his meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to 
have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr B could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr B could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £548.82, which results in an average monthly income of £45.74. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £104.39. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr B was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr B could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £250.59 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr B, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,073.71. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
That total is clearly somewhat less than the sum of over twelve hundred pounds a year in 
loan payments.
Theres another section of the quote headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options with three 
tables showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on 
the table for 180 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr B entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £104.39. 
For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It 
then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£104.39, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the first three years of 
the loan, meaning that the system would take nearly four years to begin to make enough 
money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that Mr B wasnt told that the FIT 
payments would cover the loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mr Bs version of 
events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process 
which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that 
he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and 
savings alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr B that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The System Performance and Returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
estimated performance over 20 years. This shows that it would take over 7 years for the 
overall benefits that Mr B could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system, 
£9,635.
(The Putting it all together section mentioned above also gave a payback time of 7 years.)
The System Performance and Returns table also shows that by the end of year 13 the 
overall benefits that Mr B could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount 
payable under the loan agreement, £18,790.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr B that the system would pay for its cash 
price in about 7 years, and for the loan in nearly 13 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr B. The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,178 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Bs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,860 kWh a year. This is 90% of what was estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing nearly as well as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr B hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr B could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr B entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr B to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman