DRN-3628456
The complaint
Mr G complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) charged excessive amount of 
interest and charges onto his running account credit agreement with them and it didnt treat 
his financial difficulties fairly. 
What happened
In September 2013, Mr G took out a running account credit agreement with JDW. It had an 
initial credit limit of £150, which was increase seven times until December 2014 when the 
limit reached £1,500.
Mr G says he was in financial difficulty and it seems he began to miss payments on his JDW 
account from January 2014 onwards. The amount and frequency of his arrears began to 
increase as time went on. 
In July 2021, Mr G complained to JDW. He said that the credit should never have been given 
to him and the amount of interest and fees it had applied to his account was unfair and 
disproportionate. 
JDW didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the interest and charges had been applied 
correctly and in line with the terms and conditions of the credit agreement. It said that Mr G 
was out of time to bring a complaint about the decision to provide him with the account and 
subsequent credit limits so it wouldnt comment on those issues.
Our adjudicator agreed with JDW that Mr G was out of time, in line with our complaints 
handling rules, to complain about the credit he had been provided. However, he upheld 
Mr Gs complaint about how JDW had administered his account. He said he could only 
consider events from six years prior to when Mr G raised his complaint with JDW. 
In doing so, he thought by February 2016, JDW ought to have stepped in to assist Mr G with 
his financial difficulty. He said that by this stage JDW was aware he was in difficulty and that 
a number of previous payment plans had failed. He said in the absence of any proactive 
action at the time, he considered it fair that JDW refund all interest and charges it applied 
from that date. 
Mr G accepted that outcome, including the parts our adjudicator said we couldnt investigate. 
JDW didnt agree. In summary, it said it had provided suitable assistance to Mr G when he 
was struggling financially. It said after the previous payment arrangements failed, it 
continued to try to reach out to Mr G to discuss further payment plans and notify him of 
missed payments. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JDW says that in late 2015, Mr G got in touch to say that hed fallen behind on his payments 
due to him having to pay unexpected priority bills. It says it then agreed a long term payment 
plan of £100 per month. Only one payment was made. JDW says that another payment plan 
for £80 was then agreed in early January 2016, but no payments were made. It says after 
this point it continued to send Mr G reminders about his missed payments and to try and set 
up new repayment plans, despite receiving only very sporadic payments. JDW considers 
that it has therefore done enough. I disagree. 
It was clear by late 2015 that Mr G had been in financial difficulty for some time and for that 
reason I dont think it was necessarily reasonable for JDW to have just accepted at face 
value what Mr G had said about unexpected bills. I say this because hed been in arrears on 
his account in eight of the last eleven billing cycles. The frequency and size of his arrears 
had been steadily building for the past twenty months, so I dont think his financial difficulty 
was due to something recent. In any event, I think JDW acted reasonably by trying, in the 
first instance to set up a repayment plan. 
Mr G gave JDW some reasons for the payment plan failing and on that basis I dont think 
JDW were unreasonable in trying to set up a new plan with lower repayments. However, 
when that second plan also failed I think it should have done more. JDW continued to try and 
contact Mr G to arrange new plans and remind him of missed payments, but I think it ought 
to have been abundantly clear to JDW at this point that Mr G wasnt going to be able to 
repay. Instead, JDW continued to apply charges and interest onto the balance when it ought 
to have realised that the lending relationship had irrevocably broken down due to Mr Gs 
financial difficulty and inability to pay. 
By continuing to apply more interest and charges JDW didnt act in Mr Gs best interests. It 
ought to have stepped in and done more than simply ask Mr G to contact it to arrange 
payment. This is because it had already tried this without success. In the absence of it 
having done anything at the time, I think it would therefore be fair and reasonable for JDW to 
have suspended interest and charges altogether, to prevent the balance from increasing 
further. To put things right, it should therefore refund all interest and charges it applied since 
February 2016. I think this is the point in time JDW ought to have done more to assist Mr G 
with his financial difficulty and taken more decisive action with the account.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct J D Williams & Company 
Limited to:
Re-work the account to remove all interest, fees and charges applied from 
February 2016 onwards. 
If after re-working the account this results in a credit balance on the account, any 
overpayments should be refunded to Mr G. JDW should add 8% simple interest to 
any refund from the date of overpayment to the date of settlement. JDW should also 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file from February 2016 
onwards; or
If after re-working the account there is still a balance outstanding, JDW should agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr G for the remaining amount. JDW should 
amend any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Gs credit file from February 
2016 onwards to reflect what would have happened, had it taken the steps above. If JDW has sold the debt to a third party, it should either buy back the debt or work with that 
third party to ensure the above direction is carried out. 
If JDW considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Mr G with a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, so he can reclaim that 
amount, if he is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman