DRN-3399957
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tier One Capital Ltd (TOC) gave him unsuitable advice when they
recommended him multiple times to invest in the West Auckland (WA) Project, a private
funding circle (PFC) investment.
Mr T invested both from personal funds and later through his Self-Invested Personal Pension
(SIPP). His SIPP investment forms part of a separate complaint, so this decision only deals
with Mr Ts personal investment which he made with funds previously held on a deposit
account.
What happened
Mr T was advised in April 2015 to invest £25,000 into the WA project. It was a lending
project which started in 2015 to provide funding for a development of 110 houses. The
investment was part of a syndicated property loan with a term of two years. The funds in
April were planned to be used to support the purchase of some land, the acquisition of
planning permission and to carry out pre-liminary works ahead of a full site development.
Initial interest of 10% per year was to be paid to investors quarterly.
In December 2015 and February 2018 he was again advised to invest £25,000 each time for
the next stages of the WA project.
TOC says interest payments stopped in late 2019 when the project suffered financial
difficulties. From what I understand there is no concrete prospect of when or if capital
repayments or further interest payments will be paid. TOC said eventual losses would be
known by the end of 2021, but the Financial Ombudsman Service has not been informed by
either party that any further pay-outs have happened.
Mr T complained in 2020. He says the investment has not carried the security in assets that
was promised. He says he was a cautious investor and he was not interested in risk
believing the investment to be asset backed. In an email to TOC in June 2020 he said:
These investments were sold to me on the basis there was very little to no risk as the
security would always cover any shortfall.
TOC admitted in their initial response to Mr T in May 2020 that there had been gaps in their
sales advice process and record keeping and they said there were inconsistencies in the
information Mr T was provided with. The adviser who had recommended the WA investment
to Mr T was not working for TOC anymore. They said it was unclear whether the advice to
invest into WA had been suitable or not.
They offered Mr T to delay the complaint resolution until the outcome of the project and full
losses would be known. TOC said they would then revisit the complaint. Alternatively, they
offered to use a forecasted capital loss position of 40%. After deducting interest payments
Mr T already received on his total direct investment into WA (which included £100,000
invested through his SIPP), they calculated losses to be £10,000 and offered to pay another
£1,000 to acknowledge they had fallen below their service standards. They offered to keep
this sum in TOCs account accruing interest of 3% a year and use it to pay for ongoing
charges or-if Mr T didnt want to use their services anymore-pay the sum of £11,000 to him
directly.
Mr T rejected the proposals and referred his complaint to this service. TOC provided their file
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. At this point they said the advice given was suitable.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. TOC had categorised the first funding tranche
in 2015 as a low to moderate risk investment, the second one in December 2015 as
moderate risk and the one in February 2018 as high risk. The investigator considered Mr T
was a cautious investor and that the WA investment exceeded his attitude to risk. However,
due to Mr Ts substantial holdings in cash, he felt the relatively small investment amount of
£25,000 wasnt excessive and could be tolerated.
However, he felt Mr T shouldnt have been advised to invest again in December 2015 and
February 2018 as his exposure to PFC by this point had increased. The investigator
assumed that Mr T was investing additional sums of £25,000 each time, i.e. £75,000 in total.
In response TOC pointed out that the first two loans were redeemed and capital returned. So
whilst he was advised three times to invest £25,000, the capital was essentially recycled, so
Mr T only directly invested £25,000 into WA outside his SIPP. As the investigator had
concluded the first investment of £25,000 was suitable, TOC felt this complaint should not be
upheld.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision and gave both parties further opportunity to 
comment. In my decision I said the following:
TOC gave Mr T investment advice and so they needed to make sure their recommendations
were suitable for him.
Mr T met with TOC in 2015. A meeting note dated 3 February said:
[Mr T] explained he would ideally wish to simply generate an income a bit better than what
he currently is achieving with a raft of cash deposits with the mainstream banks. [TOC]
discussed the importance of completing the risk questionnaire to allow a more informed
decision on where best to allocate funds within risk parameters they will be comfortable with
and which achieve their goals.
Mr T and his wife completed a risk questionnaire which showed Mrs T was very risk averse.
Mr T was recorded as being risk category 4 which I assume was equivalent to lowest
medium risk. He said on his attitude to risk form he was neither risk averse or a risk taker.
He strongly agreed or agreed with statements which said:
I have been extremely cautious in my past financial investments.
I believe that it is reckless to take financial risks
When Im faced with a financial decision I am generally more concerned about the
possible losses than the possible gains
I would rather get a guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain about my
investments.I do not feel comfortable with financial uncertainty.
And he disagreed with:
I would accept potential losses in order to pursue long-term investment growth
Taking investment risks is important to me
He ticked a box to say he felt slightly comfortable when he took a financial risk and
small/medium losses could be tolerated.
Having looked at the questions he answered I agree with the investigator that he was a
cautious investor. This is also backed up by the fact that Mr T and his wife held the majority 
of their money in cash and premium bonds in 2015. Mr T also had a pension and company 
shares. And another meeting note on 4 February 2015 said the adviser explained the risk 
questionnaire suggested Mr T had a preference for lower risk investments.
From what Ive seen Mr T wanted to get better returns than he got from cash deposits.
However, I dont think the evidence suggests he needed or wanted to take much risk with his
money.
I appreciate Mr T was high net value client with large sums of cash available to invest. And
in comparison to his assets the sum invested was relatively small. So I agree that he had the
financial capacity to lose some of his investment. However, I dont think the PFC
investments matched his attitude to risk and were generally suitable for him.
He didnt have any significant investment experience and so Im not persuaded he would
have had the relevant knowledge and experience to fully understand the risks these
investments held. These were unregulated investments with substantial liquidity and market
risks. The project was also in its early stages with no obvious track record.
Mr T kept referring to these investments being asset backed and a couple of years later he
said he preferred bricks and mortar to equity investments. TOC seems to take this as
evidence that Mr T understood what he was doing, however I take a different view.
I think Mr T likely thought the idea of having land or properties acting as a security was
reassuring and he might have felt he understood the concept of investing in property better
than equities which he didnt have experience with and might have felt more abstract and
volatile to him. Also TOC told him this was a low to moderate investment which would have
given him no reason to think otherwise.
But as I said above, Id say this investment from the start was a higher risk, non-standard
and unregulated investment. I dont think Mr T would have understood the full risks of the
PFC proposition in general. His wife was risk averse and he was cautious. I dont think the
PFC investments were right for them.
They had no need to take risk with their money to achieve high returns. Their financial
situation in my view was comfortable and a diversified low risk portfolio of standard
investments which could have included for example bonds, gilts and property funds (if Mr T
didnt want to invest much in other equity shares) would have been far more suitable in my
view.
Whilst TOC have said the first investment was a low to moderate investment, I disagree. It
might have been less risky than later funding tranches, but I still think this non-standard
investment was a lot higher risk than Mr T was willing to take.Overall, I dont think the WA investment should have been recommended to Mr T in April
2015 or subsequently in December 2015 and February 2018.
Responses to my provisional decision
TOC disagreed with my decision. Im not going to repeat everything they said, but their key 
arguments are:
Since Mr T made his complaint in March 2020, capital repayments totalling £10,750 
have been made and a final payment of £1,500 was anticipated by the end of April 
2022 which would bring the project to a close. In addition he has received £10,347.62 
in interest. Once the project is concluded in April, Mr Ts investment will have 
returned £22,597.62, so Mr T has lost £2,402.38 of his original £25,000 investment. 
TOC says this is the actual loss and is insignificant relative to Mr Ts asset base. This 
also falls within his capacity for loss.
The investments sat within Mr Ts risk tolerances. Mr T was a cautious investor with a 
risk level of 4 out of 10, defined by a potential fluctuation in value of 20%. This 
doesnt mean he wasnt prepared to take any risk and Mr T had confirmed 
small/medium risks could be tolerate and he was slightly comfortable when taking 
financial risk.
Toc doesnt understand why I referred back to information from 2015 when the 
complaint is about the investment in 2018. At the time investments were made in 
2018 Mr and Mrs T had £460,000 in cash and premium bonds, £253,000 invested 
with TOC, £200,000 invested in private company shares (including £100,000 
invested in a new start up business supporting property development), £110,000 in a 
buy to let property and £202,000 in cars. Its misleading to say the vast majority of 
their assets were in cash and premium bonds.
Mr T did know what he was doing. He was an experienced and accomplished 
investor who has regularly invested into small private companies and speculative 
property developments (both before the WA investment and after) without TOCs 
advice.
Mr T was provided with clear, complete and detailed information outlining all the risk 
of the investment which he is familiar with given he has a number of these 
investments. He signed documents to say he fully read and understood them and he 
was recommended to seek independent legal advice before proceeding with any 
investment. 
As a business and investment property owner he regularly enters into legal 
documentation and has invested multiple times into small, private start-up 
businesses to benefit from HMRC approved tax reliefs (such as EIS and SEIS), has 
built a multi-million pound asset base through business and is a frequent investor into 
a variety of different investment vehicles. Mr T has robust business and investment 
knowledge.
Mr T was one of the original angel equity funders of a new banking entity focused on 
providing development finance to the property sector. This investment was made 
externally to Tier One Capital and provides further evidence that Mr T has a good 
understanding of investing into projects that are exposed to the property 
development sector. This investment was made before Mr T decided to invest into the WA investment and he has continued to invest equity into this venture over the 
past few years.
Mr T has told TOC he continues to have an advisory relationship with TOCs previous 
adviser who gave him the WA advice and has since left TOC. He continues to invest 
in illiquid and high-risk products.
Mr T has enjoyed an overall positive return on his portfolio, which must be taken into 
account as part of this complaint. Mr T fully understood and continues to understand 
all investment decisions he made and continues to make.
Ive carefully re-considered TOCs submissions during this complaint as well as their latest 
submissions, however I remain satisfied that the investment into WA shouldnt have been 
recommended to Mr T.
Mr T complained about all his WA investment, so Ive considered both the 2015 investments 
and the one in 2018 (outside the SIPP) in this complaint. I disagreed with the investigator 
that the first investment in 2015 was suitable for the reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision which is set out above. 
I acknowledge the couple had some capacity for loss and I didnt say Mr T wasnt prepared 
to take any risk. I also can see that Mr T was a high net worth individual. However, the WA 
investment, which was unregulated, was in my view too high risk. And based on his recorded 
circumstances at the time I cant see he had the required knowledge and investment 
experience to fully understand the risks of this investment. I remain of the view the WA 
investment should not have recommended to Mr T in 2015. And I see no reason why Mr T 
would not have followed TOCs recommendation not to invest.
Mr T made his second investment six months later when the first one had completed and he 
simply reinvested his capital of £25,000. If he had not been advised to invest in April 2015 
into WA, he would not have been in a position where his capital was returned and be 
recommended to invest it in the second stage of the project. I think on balance this second 
and third investment into WA would not have happened. 
However, even if I consider that after not investing in WA in 2015, he somehow would have 
sought advice again in 2018, I think the investment wasnt suitable then either. I do 
acknowledge that by 2018 Mr T had a portfolio of TOC investments. However, he had 
invested based on advice he received from TOC, so I dont think his knowledge and 
understanding of risks automatically would have increased. From what Ive seen he trusted 
the adviser to recommend investments which were in line with his attitude to risk. The fact 
that he did already had a portfolio of TOC direct lending investments by that point means 
further investment would have exposed him to even more risk. 
Mr T has business experience and seems to be interested in property investments. 
However, based on the evidence provided I still think the WA investment was not suitable for 
him and shouldnt have been recommended.
I also dont think the fact that by 2018 he had a buy-to let property or private company 
shares changes the fact that the WA investment was too high risk. 
The fact an investment was successful or that future investments possibly didnt lose Mr T a 
large amount of money does not mean these investments were suitable. Also providing Mr T with information material or risk warnings does not make an unsuitable 
investment suitable. I also note that in 2018, when TOC said WA was a high-risk investment, 
they reassured Mr T in their suitability report that
the project is asset backed to a strong degree, and whilst this remains a private loan
supporting a single project the project carry's a relatively conservative loan to Gross
Development Value. The process outlined is therefore one which we feel can mitigate a
large portion of the risks inherent in this activity however it is still sensible for each investor
to acknowledge the potential for such a project to change in shape or form as the project
progresses.
I dont think this made it clear enough how much risk this investment really entailed and how
this differed from the investments recommended before in the same project which were
previously described as low and moderate investments.
In my view this investment from the start was a higher risk, non-standard and unregulated
investment. Although I appreciate risk factors were described in the suitability report, I dont
think Mr T would have understood the full risks of the PFC proposition in general. And as 
explained previously the fact find and suitability report do not suggest Mr T wanted to take 
much risk with his investments.
Of course risk attitudes can change and its possible Mr T has been investing in higher risk 
investments since. However, based on his risk questionnaire in 2015 (which TOC has 
confirmed wasnt updated in 2018) and his circumstances in 2015 and 2018, I dont think the 
WA investment was suitable.
Mr T has specifically complained about his WA investment and that he was exposed to it 
multiple times through personal investment, through his pension and through shares (which 
is a separate complaint). I appreciate Mr T might have not raised a complaint about other 
TOC investments which were more successful. But I would only expect him to raise a 
complaint about advice he was unhappy with. There is no doubt the underperformance and 
liquidity issues triggered Mr Ts complaint about WA. And he is entitled to complain. If the 
advice given by TOC had been suitable this complaint would not be upheld. So I dont think 
its unfair or unreasonable to look at Mr Ts specific complaint here.
I think its fair however that Mr Ts gains and interest payments from his £25,000 investment 
in April and December 2015 are taken into account when calculating redress as they are 
linked and my award allows for this. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr T
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable
advice. With suitable advice I think Mr T would have invested £25,000 differently in April
2015 and would not have invested this sum again in December 2015 and February 2018. I
dont know exactly where Mr T would have invested his money instead, however I think the
below recommendation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
What should TOC do?
As I understand it Mr Ts first and second investments in 2015 were both successful and he
received interest payments. It is the investment in February 2018 which is in difficulty and
which might cause Mr T losses.
Both Mr Ts gains and losses from the WA investments need to be taken into account here,as with suitable advice he also wouldnt have earned any interest from the WA investments.
To compensate Mr T fairly, TOC must:
Compare the value of Mr T's outstanding WA investment with that of the benchmark
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is
payable. Mr Ts first and second investment paid interest and the loans were
redeemed.
TOC should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
WA 
investmentStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from
fixed rate
bondsApril 2015Date of my final 
decision8% simple per
year from final
decision to
settlement (if
not settled
within 28 days
of the
business
receiving the
complainant's
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid or like in this case its uncertain how much capital
and/or interest will be returned, it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In
such a case the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr T agrees
to TOC taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for TOC to
take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr T that he repays to TOC any
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
I appreciate TOC wanted to wait until the value of the investment is known. And given some 
time has passed since my provisional decision, this might be the case now. However, even if 
the value isnt known yet, I dont think its fair for Mr T to have continued uncertainty, so 
calculations should be done now.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, TOC should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases toaccrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if TOC totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested,
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a
higher return.
I consider that Mr T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50
combination would reasonably put Mr T into that position. It does not mean that Mr T
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly
reflects the sort of return Mr T could have obtained from investments suited to his
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint and require Tier One Capital Ltd to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman