DRN-4290903
The complaint
Mr F through a professional representative complains about the advice given by Aveton 
Gifford Associates Limited to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr F approached Aveton Gifford in September 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. I understand that Mr Fs financial adviser had passed him onto Aveton Gifford to get 
advice specifically about the DB pension in question.
Aveton Gifford completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Fs circumstances and 
objectives. Aveton Gifford also carried out an assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be cautious.
The fact find also recorded the following about Mr F:
He was 61 years old, in medium health (scribbled underneath it says he has A.F) and 
married to Mrs F, aged 54
They had two children aged 30 and 25
Mr F had recently been made redundant but would look for work and was confident
of finding something even with his age and health. He was in receipt of pension income
of £187 per month
Mrs F had been employed for 2 years as a childminder and was in receipt of
£1,200 per month
Joint income was detailed as £1,387 and joint expenditure £1,242
Cash deposits of £5,000 were held.
The main residence was valued at around £120,000 with a £35,000 repayment
Mortgage.
Mr F had said he didnt need income just yet. He was happy to wait and see how the job 
search goes. 
On 18 October, Aveton Gifford advised Mr F to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr F 
required access to the tax-free cash element in order to pay for a holiday, replace his car 
and establish a small emergency sum.
Mr F through a representative complained in 2023 to Aveton Gifford about the suitability of 
the transfer advice because he was inexperienced and didnt understand the risk associated 
with transfer. And the advice was unsuitable.
Aveton Gifford didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said the advice was suitable. Mr F referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator upheld the complaint 
and required Aveton Gifford to pay compensation. The investigator said that Aveton Gifford 
hadnt clearly demonstrated the transfer was in Mr Fs best interests. The investigator 
explained the transfer report submitted to us didnt include enough information to be 
confident in the outcome in terms of the financial viability. But that in any event Mr Fs only 
guaranteed benefits in retirement ought to have been prioritised due to circumstances over 
his reasons for wanting immediate cash. The investigator said that Aveton Gifford had failed 
to show that its advice was in Mr Fs best interests and had it told Mr F to retain his DB 
pension he was satisfied Mr F wouldve done so.
Aveton Gifford disagreed, it said Mr F was previously a financial adviser and specifically on 
DB pensions and was still registered with the FCA up until 2007, so it wasnt true he didnt 
understand the risks with the transfer. And the warnings and risks about transferring had 
been clearly set out. Mr F was not an inexperienced investor. It felt the complaint was 
disingenuous.  
Aveton Gifford said the FCAs stance was that transferring wasnt usually suitable but its 
records show Mr F dismissed this as being impratical and unrealistic. The aim of the advice 
was to provide the client with his stated goals and the risks were pointed out to Mr F. And 
the advice to transfer was the optimum method to achieving these goals. Mr F had stated the 
state pension income would be sufficient in retirement.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me an ombudsman at this service to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Aveton Gifford's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Aveton 
Gifford should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Fs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied 
it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Aveton Gifford carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Fs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr F was age 61 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65. The transfer report 
completed at the time said the critical yield required to match Mr Fs benefits at age 65 was 
0.83%. However, as the investigator stated, the transfer report weve received only shows 
headline figures and not the inputs used. In the recommendation letter, a different figure is 
used of 1% stating that its actuaries have calculated this.
Ive looked at the information from the product provider Mr F transferred into upon the 
recommendation of Aveton Gifford. And this shows at the lower growth rate of 1.75% Mr Fs 
fund would erode. At the medium growth rate of 4.75% Mr Fs fund however would increase. 
It also shows at the time the amount transferred would buy him an annuity of £2,890 
approximately (tax-free cash had already been taken at this point) and to provide that same 
annuity at 65 it showed a yield of 6%. It also showed the impact of charges, Mr F having 
been transferred was now paying 1% a year advisor charges, 0.79% fund charges and 
0.45% product charges. And this would eat into any growth he accrued in the fund. Compare 
this to the DB scheme which had guaranteed escalation each year and was free of charges.
There is a lack of information and contradictory information provided about the financial 
viability of the transfer at the time of advice. And the evidence from the product provider 
suggests growth at a rate in excess of the lower rate was required just to keep Mr Fs fund 
from eroding. Therefore, I am not persuaded that for viability reasons alone a transfer out of 
the DB scheme was in Mr Fs best interests. Aveton Gifford has failed to show that this was 
a compelling reason to transfer.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Aveton Gifford has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.Flexibility and income needs
The benefits Mr F had accrued in the DB scheme offered a guaranteed income for life and 
would form a significant part of his total pension provisions. The evidence gathered during 
the fact find indicated Mr F had a low capacity for loss which wouldve likely meant the 
security of the guaranteed benefits offered by the DB scheme ought to have been very 
important to him. The DB scheme offered valuable benefits with virtually no risk.
So I dont think Mr F required flexibility in retirement in place of the above. Although it was 
recorded Mr F wanted funds to take a holiday, replace his car and have a small emergency 
fund, I dont think this shouldve been prioritised over financial security in the future. 
At the time Mr F had just been made redundant (the evidence shows he used the 
redundancy pay to meet credit card debt) and the combined household income was very 
small. It was recorded that Mr Fs wife worked part-time as a childminder and Mr F was 
unemployed but hoping to find work. It was also recorded that income met expenditure, 
however Mr F had previously run up credit card debts and so this suggests that perhaps it 
didnt always. Mr F did have £5,000 in savings but its not clear if this was the excess of 
redundancy payments or a pot built up over time. But regardless their financial situation was 
fairly tight.
Aveton Gifford said that Mr F had an immediate requirement for tax-free cash and wished to 
have the flexibility and freedom to choose the income that he required. And it recommended 
he transfer to meet these objectives.
However, it doesnt look like alternatives to this action were considered. Given Mr Fs fairly 
precarious financial situation, a guaranteed escalating pension in retirement starting at 
£5,200 wouldve been very valuable in retirement  and Mr F was already 61 at the time of 
advice. I accept that Mr F was five years away from being able to claim the state pension but 
that doesnt diminish the advantages additional benefits his other main source of income in 
retirement couldve provided. 
If Mr Fs requirements for a replacement car and holiday were non-negotiables and required 
immediately, Aveton Gifford ought to have challenged and tested this but it doesnt appear it 
did, it ought to have been considered whether this could be achieved from the scheme. For 
example, Mr F couldve taken tax-free cash from the scheme alongside a reduced pension. 
Or alternatively he couldve taken full income and used the excess income he received either 
to help fund this, or use his savings with the excess income replenishing this over time. This 
wouldve kept his guaranteed escalating income in place for life  and provided 50% of this 
for his wife in the unfortunate event of his death. I also note his wife was seven years 
younger than him and so statistically there is a strong chance she would come to benefit 
from this. 
None of this was considered in any detail or put forward to Mr F as a realistic option. I also 
note that the recommendation said Mr Fs starting pension at 61 would be £4,160 (the report 
said the early retirement penalty was 4% p.a) but the information from the scheme showed a 
pension at date of leaving service (31/08/2018) of £4,711 per annum. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr F had a strong need for variable income throughout their 
retirement. No analysis was carried out to suggest why this was the case. I think what Mr F 
needed was to retain as much income as he could in retirement. And this was by far his 
most valuable source of income (bar the state pension) in retirement and guaranteed. I think 
Aveton Gifford shouldve explained this ought to outweigh his more immediate requirements.Mr F said he was confident of finding work, which if he did do so, the additional income 
couldve helped to fund these needs, whilst retaining his valuable DB benefits. Transferring 
was a permanent solution to what at the time was a temporary problem. But in the scenario 
he was unable to find work, it may have been even more necessary to have retained his 
guaranteed escalating benefits for retirement. Analysis showed that on transfer and using 
drawdown his funds could be depleted at age 82. Whereas benefits from the scheme would 
last for the rest of his life and 50% would be payable to his wife if he predeceased her.
Im satisfied that Mr Fs needs in retirement wouldve been met by his DB income. Whilst 
Aveton Gifford relied on the fact Mr F said his income needs could be met by the state 
pension I think more analysis of this ought to have been carried out. Emphasis shouldve 
been put on the fact that retaining his DB benefits would give him and his wife a more 
comfortable retirement, whereas transferring the benefits to spend now could put this at risk. 
Further evidence of the lack of critical analysis is evidenced by the fact Mr F said if he didnt 
find work he may need to draw on more funds and this could exhaust his fund before 
retirement. Which is at odds with the income/expenditure recorded. And I think this ought to 
have been a point where the adviser challenged Mr Fs needs now and in retirement. And 
whether his state pension alone would really be sufficient, given at some point his wifes 
income would also reduce upon retirement. I dont think the adviser sufficiently considered 
whether giving up a starting benefit of £5,200 a year escalating and guaranteed for life was 
right for Mr F (or the benefits available immediately from the scheme at 61).
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr F. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to Mr F, and Mr F might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr F about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were quite likely to be 
more valuable than the death benefits upon transfer. Mr F was married and so the spouses 
pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr F predeceased 
him. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as it had 
indicated in the report, it knew there was the potential that Mr F may exhaust this fund and, 
in that situation, it would leave nothing for Mrs F upon his death anyway. 
In any event, Aveton Gifford should not have encouraged Mr F to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Mr Fs previous experience and knowledge of DB pensions
Aveton Gifford has strongly argued that Mr F knew what he was doing and fully understood 
all the risks and rewards of his options. Its argued that he was a DB pension specialist. 
However, as the investigator noted it appears his last role in this sector was at the latest 
2007  and him being a DB pension specialist was recorded with a question mark. So it 
seems the adviser wasnt fully confident of this. His representatives told us his experience 
was from some 25 years ago and this is why he sought advice.Regardless of this, Mr F came to Aveton Gifford as a retail consumer when he received 
advice to transfer and any experience he may have had does not change the fact that 
Aveton Gifford was required to act in his best interests and give suitable advice. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr F. But Aveton 
Gifford wasnt there to just transact what Mr F might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr F needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
The benefits of transferring were promoted to Mr F, whereas much more shouldve been 
done to set out the benefits of remaining in the scheme and how this may be achieved. If Mr 
F was adamant funds were required immediately, it shouldve considered whether the 
scheme was better placed to meet his needs here and in the long term. 
Aveton Gifford hasnt clearly demonstrated that the transfer was financially viable, there are 
question marks around the figures used and its transfer analysis. I think it has failed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable for its client as per COBS 
9.2.1. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr F was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income in retirement and given his financial 
circumstances I think this wouldve been very valuable. There were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think Aveton Gifford shouldve advised Mr F to remain in their DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr F would've gone ahead anyway, against Aveton 
Gifford's advice. Aveton Gifford argues that this is the case, as its said Mr F was 
experienced and saw the benefits from the DB scheme as impractical. However, it was its 
role to challenge Mr Fs pre-conceptions and it ought to have set out clearly why the benefits 
from the DB scheme were valuable. And considered other options to meet Mr Fs needs 
whilst retaining these benefits.
So Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr F wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Aveton Giffords advice. Mr F had a cautious 
attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Fs retirement provision. So, 
if Aveton Gifford had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
In light of the above, I think Aveton Gifford should compensate Mr F for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
The investigator awarded £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F. I dont 
think this was unreasonable, Mr F was 61 at the time and so close to retirement and the 
advice to give up his guaranteed escalating benefits in retirement cannot now be undone, 
with little opportunity to accrue more in the future. I think this has likely caused disruption to 
his retirement plans and caused some distress and inconvenience. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr F, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr F would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Aveton Gifford must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, it is my understanding that Mr F retired at age 63. Providing he started taking 
benefits from the pension in question at or around this point, compensation should be based 
on retiring at age 63. If he hadnt released income or cash from the plan, then compensation 
should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions 
in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Aveton Gifford should:
calculate and offer Mr F redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr F before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr F receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr F accepts Aveton Giffords offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr F for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Fs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr F as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
may otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Aveton Gifford 
could usually make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax 
that Mr F would otherwise pay on income from their pension in retirement. However, given 
the relative low value of this fund and Mr F being reliant on the state pension in retirement, I 
dont think a notional deduction for tax should apply here.
It should also pay £200 to Mr F in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Aveton Gifford 
Associates Limited to pay Mr F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
Aveton Gifford Associates Limited pays Mr F the balance.
If Mr F accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Aveton Gifford 
Associates Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman