DRN-3033392
The complaint
Miss S complains that The Co-operative Bank (trading as Britannia) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to her in 2004.
What happened
The PPI was sold to Miss S alongside a mortgage. I can see the policy that was sold would
have covered her for £2,000 per month if she wanted to make a claim. At the time, her
mortgage repayments were just over £1,000 per month and so the policy would have
provided an additional cash benefit if Miss S couldnt work because of accident, sickness or
unemployment. The cover was free for the first six months and then the monthly premium
was £120 per month.
Miss S made her initial mortgage application on 20 January 2004 and at that point, she
indicated she didnt want a PPI policy. The full mortgage offer was then issued to Miss S on
5 February 2004.
On 24 February 2004, Miss S appears to have attended a separate appointment with
Britannia at which her insurance needs appear to have been discussed. I can see that the
Britannia representative suggested Miss S take out buildings and contents insurance, along
with a PPI policy. Miss S had refused a combined buildings and contents insurance policy
because it did not meet her needs. She completed a separate application form to apply for
the PPI policy and also completed a direct debit mandate so that the premiums could be
taken.
In August 2019, Miss S complained to Britannia about the sale of the PPI. She said that she
wasnt told the cover was optional and that it was implied she had to take the policy out to
get the mortgage agreed. Miss S said she paid a monthly premium to her employer which
appeared to provide similar cover. She felt she had no choice but to agree to buy PPI if she
wanted the mortgage. She said PPI was an intrinsic part of the mortgage discussion,
particularly as she was borrowing more than three times her salary, which required
additional agreement from the underwriter.
Britannia did not think the PPI had been mis-sold, but it did agree to refund some of the
commission Miss S had paid in respect of her PPI premiums. Thats because it didnt tell her
about a high level of commission it would have received from the insurer.
Miss S did not agree with how Britannia had offered to settle her complaint and so she
referred it to this service. She reiterated that she understood the PPI was necessary to get
her mortgage. She also said she had a permanent health insurance policy, which would
have paid out in similar circumstances to the PPI policy, along with some savings.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold, Miss S disagreed with that view and
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision 
because although I didnt think the complaint should be upheld, my reasoning was different 
to that of our adjudicator. I said: 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss S, but as things stand, I dont think PPI was mis-sold. I currently
think the offer Britannia made to refund some of the commission Miss S paid for her
premiums is a fair way to settle this complaint. Ill explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether Britannia made it clear to Miss S that
the PPI was optional and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. Miss S says she
was led to believe that she had to take a PPI policy out as it was a necessary component of
her mortgage.
I dont doubt that what Miss S told us is what she honestly recalls about the PPI sale. But I
also have to bear in mind that it is difficult to remember what happened 17 years ago, which
is when this policy was sold. Although I accept Miss Ss recollection is genuinely held, I dont
think I can rely on it. I say this because Miss S refused the PPI initially and by the time it was
sold to her, the mortgage offer had already been issued. I cant realistically say Miss S would
have thought the PPI was a requirement of the mortgage if that borrowing had already been
agreed by the time PPI was sold to her.
I think its most likely Miss S knew the PPI was optional because she refused it in the first
instance. I can see from the contemporaneous notes that are available from the time that
there was some discussion about the level of cover Miss S wanted and a quotation was
provided on 24 February 2004. Miss S also filled out a separate application form and direct
debit mandate. So Im satisfied she would have appreciated she had applied for a PPI policy.
Overall, I think its likely Miss S knew PPI was optional and she could have refused it if she
didnt want it.
Britannia argued that it did not advise Miss S to take out a PPI policy because the sale took
place before mortgages were regulated by the (then) FCA. I dont agree with Britannia on
this point. Even though the FCA did not regulate this mortgage, I can see that its
representative recommended this cover after taking account of Miss Ss personal
circumstances. The representative stated:
[Miss S] has no protection in place and as she is solely responsible for the mortgage,
I recommended full accident, sickness and unemployment cover with additional
benefits.
DISP App 3 sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale of PPI. This
sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity and so Britannia was
required to take into account the provisions of DISP App 3 as if it was guidance at the time
PPI was sold and when considering this complaint. With that in mind, I am satisfied that it
needed to advise Miss S with reasonable care, having particular regard to whether the PPI
was suitable for her needs.
Miss S says the cover was not suitable for her needs. I can see the adviser appears to have
asked Miss S:
Have you any existing cover which would provide you with an income in the event of
accident/sickness/redundancy?
The box marked no has been ticked. So on the face of it, it does appear that Britannia took
some steps to establish whether the recommendation it made was suitable. However, it did
not explore whether Miss S would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions. But I
dont think further enquiries about the exclusions would have affected the recommendation
Britannia made. I say this because Miss S did not have any pre-existing medical conditions.
She was also in permanent employment and I havent seen anything unusual about heremployment circumstances that would have stopped her being able to make a successful
claim if she needed to.
Overall, I think Britannia probably took reasonable steps to establish whether the cover was
suitable for Miss S in terms of the existing provision she had. I think it could have done more
to establish whether the cover was suitable for her in respect of the policys terms and
exclusions. But as she wouldnt have been affected by any such exclusion, I dont think this
would have affected her decision to take the cover out.
Britannia also had to give Miss S enough information about the PPI so she could decide for
herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information should have been clear, fair
and not misleading.
Ive seen a copy of the PPI quotation that was provided to Miss S at the point of sale and the
cost of the cover is set out fairly clearly on that document. Im satisfied she would have
known how much the premiums would have been. And I can see from the PPI review form
completed at the time that there appears to have been a fairly detailed conversation about
the benefits Miss S wanted to be covered for. She chose a significant additional payment on
top of her mortgage payment, so it looks as though she was keen to have this kind of cover.
As I said above, I cant say Britannia told Miss S about the main exclusions. But as she
wouldnt have been affected by any of those exclusions, I dont think they would have
affected her decision to take PPI. Ive given very careful thought to what Miss S said about
her income protection policy. And I accept she most likely had that cover. But Britannia
hadnt been made aware of it and it was for Miss S to decide whether the PPI was right for
her circumstances. I cant say more or better information about the PPI would have put Miss
S off taking the cover out.
I am sorry to disappoint Miss S, but after giving careful thought to her complaint, I cant say
the cover was mis-sold.
Britannia has paid back some of the PPI costs back to Miss S because it didnt tell her it got
a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium). Failing to
inform her was unfair. To put that right, Britannia offered to pay back the amount of
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. Im provisionally
satisfied thats a fair outcome in this case.
I cannot see we have received a reply from Britannia. Miss S didnt provide us with any 
further information to consider, other than to say she didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. However, she did appear to state that although Britannia had issued a cheque to 
her in respect of the high level of commission it received, she had not cashed the cheque. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
As neither party has provided me with any further information, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. That means I dont think PPI was mis-sold, but Britannia should 
have told Miss S because about the high level of commission and profit share it received 
from her PPI premiums. That was unfair, but Britannia offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share it received that was above 50% of the PPI premium. And Im 
satisfied that was a fair outcome in this case. 
It is not altogether clear to me whether Miss S has received that payment. If the cheque 
Britannia issued has not been cashed by Miss S, it must reissue that payment and update 
the 8% simple interest to be paid up to the date Miss S receives it.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so The Cooperative Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss S. But The Co-operative Bank will have to pay back to Miss S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If Miss S 
has not already been paid, The Co-operative Bank must issue payment to Miss S to include 
8% simple interest recalculated up to the date it is received by Miss S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman