DRN-2519809
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums she paid for 
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 30 January 2020, Mrs D bought a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker, 
which was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mrs Ds policy covered a trip shed planned to take 
abroad between 12 and 26 September 2020. The policy cost Mrs D £65.30 for the basic 
level of single trip insurance cover. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs D wrote to her broker on 25 May 2020, asking 
what her options were. She wanted to know whether she could move the policy to a later 
date (preferably the following September) or cancel the policy and get a cash refund.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mrs D a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered her two options:
To amend the policy cover dates to a new date within 18 months of their original 
booking date  and if the destination and trip duration stayed the same; to waive any 
additional premium;
A pro-rata credit voucher for the portion of unused cover, which could be put towards 
another policy and which would be valid for 36 months. Great Lakes original offer 
was for £32.51, but it later recalculated the offer to take effect on the date Mrs D first 
wrote to it on 25 May 2020. This meant its total offer was £33.87.
Mrs D wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
cancelled the policy on 30 May 2020 but as she first requested the cancellation on 25 May 
2020 she agreed that we should use 25 May 2020 as the effective cancellation date when 
we looked at her case. Mrs D explained that her holiday wasnt actually cancelled until 
September 2020. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes offer was fair. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. He also explained 
that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  
for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance 
to be performed because cover under the policy started on 30 January 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mrs D a credit voucher, which would be valid for 36 months and 
which took into account the unused cover remaining on the policy. He didnt think the terms 
of the voucher were overly restrictive. So he didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mrs D a 
cash refund of her premium.
Mrs D disagreed. She felt that the offer didnt recognise customer loyalty, as shed been with 
the broker for a couple of years. She said that the money meant a great deal to her. She felt 
that wed sided with Great Lakes.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
#
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mrs Ds cooling-off period ended on 13 February 2020. But the policy 
wasnt cancelled until 30 May 2020 (although Great Lakes backdated the 
cancellation to the date Mrs D sent her letter on 25 May 2020). So her cancellation 
was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great 
Lakes to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic to be exceptional 
circumstances. I think this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are 
individual to the policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. 
This means I dont think the terms and conditions of Mrs Ds contract with Great 
Lakes entitle her to any refund of premiums.  
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I think Great Lakes offer to either allow Mrs D 
to move her cover dates to a date within 18 months of her original booking, or to 
receive a credit voucher for the unused portion of her cover is fair and reasonable. In 
the circumstances of this case I think its fair and reasonable to use 25 May 2020 as 
the relevant date for the pro-rata refund because Mrs D cancelled her policy several 
months before her trip was actually cancelled. So on the facts of this case, I think its 
fair that the date of the cancellation of the policy is used to calculate the refund.
 Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 241-day period if the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 125 days of cover, after 
the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mrs D 
making a claim after that point. I think Great Lakes decision to backdate Mrs Ds 
cancellation to the date of her letter was a fair one in the circumstances. And having 
checked Great Lakes calculation, Im satisfied it was correct.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because it seems that Mrs D does have plans to travel again the 
future, although shes told us she prefers to travel within a specific month. Great 
Lakes credit voucher is valid for 36 months, meaning that while travel plans are still 
uncertain, its likely Mrs D will be able to put the voucher towards another policy in 
the future, including during her preferred month of travel. So I dont think that the 
terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mrs D will be disappointed in my decision, Im 
not telling Great Lakes to pay her a cash refund of her premiums or do anything more. I do 
hope it reassures her to know that Ive considered this complaint independently and 
impartially of both parties.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman