DRN-4447271
The complaint
Mr L complains about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of his motor insurance claim and 
the settlement amount he was offered.
Esure is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As esure has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to esure includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr L made a claim under his motor insurance policy with esure after his car 
was damaged in an accident.
Esure arranged for the vehicle to be taken to one of its approved repairers to be fixed. Mr L 
asked the garage to also carry out some other work to his vehicle that didnt relate to the 
claim.
There was a delay in the work being carried out, due to parts being unavailable. When       
Mr Ls car was returned to him in June 2022, he found several issues with the vehicle. The 
vehicle was booked in for rectification work in August because the garage said it couldnt 
provide Mr L with a courtesy car sooner. Mr L wasnt able to take the car in on the scheduled 
date as he was unwell, so it was rescheduled for September 2022. 
Mr L found that there were still issues with the car when it was returned to him. Esure said it 
would arrange for his car to be inspected by an engineer. The engineer agreed that further 
rectification work needed to be carried out.
Mr L said he didnt want his car to go back to the garage who had carried out the repairs. 
Esure agreed for the rectification work to be carried out by a manufacturers dealership. It 
also agreed to pay for a hire car for Mr L.
The manufacturers dealership told esure that a new engine might be needed, so esure 
decided the car should be written-off. Mr L was unhappy with this decision and the 
settlement amount offered.
In response to Mr Ls complaint, esure said it believed its valuation of the vehicle was fair. It 
said a salvage retention cost of £4,298 would be deducted if Mr L wanted to retain the 
vehicle. It asked Mr L to let it know what he wanted to do.
Mr L asked our service to consider his concerns. In the meantime, esure offered to pay Mr L 
£400 to compensate him for poor service. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the settlement 
esure had offered Mr L for his vehicle was fair. He recommended the settlement be 
increased by £586.66. He also recommended that esure pay Mr L 8% simple interest on this 
from the date the initial settlement was offered until the date it was paid. 
The investigator thought esures offer of £400 for the service issues was reasonable.
Esure agreed with our investigators outcome. But Mr L remained unhappy. He said he 
would like esure to reimburse him for money lost from missing work and hire car fees hed 
had to pay. He said hed also paid £778 for works to be undertaken on his car by esures 
garage. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 October 2023, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
To be clear, in this decision Ive only considered matters Mr L has complained of that 
occurred prior to esures final response of 29 June 2023.
Market value
The policys terms and conditions say:
We will decide which method we use to settle your claim We wont pay more than the 
market value of your car at the time of loss, less the total excess payable.
Market value is defined as:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides 
including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr L was likely 
to have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing this is 
by using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national research of 
likely selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, condition 
and specification of a vehicle.
Esure valued Mr Ls car at £9,480 after considering information from three motor trade 
guides. It said this was based on the average of the two closest guides. It said it ignored the 
value showing in the highest guide because it was significantly higher than the other two.
However, its accepted our investigators recommendation to increase the valuation to an 
average of the three guides. Our service normally considers a fourth trade guide for motor 
vehicle valuation disputes. However, that guide hasnt provided any information for Mr Ls 
vehicle. So, Im satisfied that the revised valuation of £10,016.66 is fair. And Mr L says esure 
has since paid this to him. 
Esure also agreed to pay Mr L 8% interest on the difference between the revised valuation 
and its original valuation from 29 June 2023 to the date it was paid. I think this is reasonable 
to resolve this part of Mr Ls complaint.
Service issuesEsure has acknowledged a breakdown in communication and delays in moving the case 
forward. It says it provided an upgraded hire car to Mr L in late February and allowed him to 
keep it for over a month after it offered him the total loss settlement. Its also offered him 
£400 compensation.
Mr L doesnt think this is enough to put things right. He says he lost three days of pay 
because he had to take his car to his own garage and was unable to get to work. He says he 
also paid for a weeks hire car prior to esure providing him with one. Hes also commented 
that he paid £778 for works to be carried out on his car by esures approved repairers. 
Mr L provided a copy of the rental agreement for the hire car and a payslip to show the three 
days hed missed from work. I shared this information with esure and asked it for its 
comments.
Esure said it wouldnt consider Mr Ls hire car expense and loss of earnings as it thought it 
had offered a fair settlement for redress. It said it had provided him with a hire car which was 
three classes above Mr Ls entitlement. It also commented that it had never agreed to 
reimburse Mr Ls loss of earnings or hire car costs. 
Esure said Mr L chose to take his car to a garage hed specifically wanted to do his repairs, 
so would surely have been aware of the distance and possible repercussions for his 
employment. It said Mr L hadnt made it aware he was moving the vehicle there. It said it had 
been extremely patient with Mr Ls chosen garage who couldnt accommodate esures 
engineer for weeks on end. Mr L had failed to respond in a timely manner during this period, 
but it had kept him in the upgraded hire car throughout.
Esure said the £778 Mr L had paid its approved repairer was for private work that was 
nothing to do with it or the claim. It also commented that it had paid Mr L close to £800 for a 
scratch to his vehicle hed accused esures repairer of causing without strong evidence as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
From what Ive seen, esures approved repairers failed to resolve the issues with Mr Ls car 
after having two opportunities to do so. I can see that Mr L made esure aware that the 
rectification works its approved repairers carried out werent successful in October 2022. The 
car was inspected by esures engineer in early December 2022. It looks like things didnt 
progress for the next couple of months, despite Mr L contacting esure for updates. So, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mr L to have decided to move his car to a garage he 
thought he could trust.
Its unclear from the information Ive seen, when Mr L took his car into the garage of his 
choice. The payslip Mr L has provided is from mid-January 2023 and the rental agreement 
hes sent us is for the period 24 February to 3 March 2023. According to esures notes, it 
approved the upgraded rental car on 28 February 2023.
I appreciate esure believes that paying for an upgraded hire car together with the £400 its 
offered is enough to put things right. I think this is reasonable compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr L has experienced. However, I think its also fair to consider Mr Ls 
financial loss.
 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr L made esure aware that he needed to miss work 
as a result of taking the car to his chosen garage or being without a car. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to tell esure to reimburse him for his loss of earnings. However, I do think it 
would be fair for esure to reimburse Mr L for the weeks hire car he paid for before esure 
provided him with a hire vehicle, with compensatory interest.I appreciate Mr L would also like esure to reimburse him the £778 he paid to its approved 
repairer. However, Im satisfied that this work wasnt related to his claim. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to tell esure to cover this cost.
I set out what I intended to direct esure to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Esure didnt provide any further information or comments in response to my provisional 
decision.
Mr L said esure needed to send him another cheque as he hadnt banked the one it had sent 
him for the settlement of the vehicle. He said it didnt include the 8% interest and £400 
compensation. He asked if esure would include this on the new cheque sent.
He also commented that it had been a lengthy process and it would have been nice to get 
the money hed paid on the car due to esures contractors works. He asked if I had any 
suggestions on how to get the money back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any additional information or comments to persuade me to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I would suggest Mr L bank the cheque esure has already sent him if hes able to do so. That 
way, esure can send him a separate payment for the redress Im awarding. If there is a 
reason, Mr L cant bank the cheque he already has, he should get in touch with esure.
I appreciate Mr L would like to have been able to recoup the money hed paid esures 
approved repairer. However, Ive explained why I dont think esure needs to reimburse him 
for this. It will be up to Mr L to decide whether or not to accept my decision. Im unable to 
give him any advice on any further action he might wish to take. 
Putting things right
Esure should pay Mr L:
Interest on the difference between the revised settlement for the vehicle and its initial 
settlement offer calculated at 8% simple per year* from 29 June 2023 to the date the 
settlement was paid and
£348.48 to reimburse Mr L for his hire car costs with 8% simple interest per year* 
from 24 February 2023 until the date this amount is reimbursed and
£400 for distress and inconvenience.
*If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman