DRN-3104541
The complaint
  Mr P complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) lent him a loan he couldnt afford.
What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
TFS Loans lent Mr P a loan of £5,000 in July 2017, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
oTFS Loans says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Mr P. It 
says it called Mr P to ask about his expenditure, verified his income using a payslip 
and carried out a credit search. It says based on what it gathered the loan was 
affordable.
oFrom what I can see, this loan was due to be repaid over 60 monthly instalments of
around £195.46, given the length of the loan commitment and size of the loan, I 
would have expected to TFS Loans to ask Mr P more about his expenses including 
verifying some of the information he provided. I can also see from the credit search 
that Mr P had six credit card accounts that all had recent history of arrears. His 
overall unsecured debt was also quite high, and the amount he was repaying in credit 
commitments including this repayment to TFS Loans represented a significant 
proportion of his income. I think on seeing this, it ought to have prompted TFS Loans 
to find out more. I cant see that it did this or verify any of Mr Ps expenditure and so I 
dont think its checks went far enough.
oMr P has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time of the loan. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from TFS Loans at the time of the 
loan as I think his bank statements provide a clear picture about his actual financial
circumstances at the time. From what I can see, Mr P was gambling regularly, and a 
significant amount of his expenditure was going on this. It is clear from seeing this 
that Mr P was having problems managing his finances. I think if TFS had carried out 
further checks it would have uncovered this and not given him the loan.
oIn the circumstances, TFS Loans lent to Mr P when it shouldnt have, and it needs to 
put things right.
Putting things right
 
While I think TFS Loans shouldnt have lent to Mr P, I think it will be fair for him to repay the 
capital of £5,000 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, TFS Loans should:
add up all the payments made by Mr P, if it exceeds the capital amount of £5,000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr P, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. TFS Loans must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for 
one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct TFS Loans Limited to put
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman