DRN-4471196
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I are unhappy with the settlement theyve been offered by Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) following a claim under their home insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I had a home insurance policy underwritten by Admiral. They specified a 
diamond ring for £9,800 for cover away from the home.
The diamond was lost from the ring, so Mr and Mrs I made a claim to Admiral. The claim 
was initially accepted by Admiral. They then declined the claim based on an endorsement on 
the policy which required the ring to be inspected annually. However, Admiral revisited 
things and overturned that decision again and offered settlement of the claim with 8% simple 
interest added, along with £150 compensation. 
However, whilst the ring was specified for £9,800, Admiral said Mr and Mrs I were 
underinsured. Admiral said that if Mr and Mrs I had sufficiently insured the ring for the correct 
amount, which they said was £17,804, Admiral would have been able to repair or replace it 
like for like. And they say the most it would have cost them would have included a 33% 
discount from their supplier.
But Admiral werent able to repair or replace it for the amount specified and insured for. So, 
Admiral took the specified value of £9,800 and then deducted 33% from that amount, as they 
say this would have been the approach if the ring had been insured for the full value and 
being repaired or replaced, but because it was underinsured, they werent able to do either. 
This resulted in Admiral offering £6,556 in settlement of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs I were unhappy with this, so they approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said she didnt 
think Mr and Mrs I had been given clear instructions on what to base the specified value on 
when answering the question about it when talking out the policy, and she thought the 
answer they had given was reasonable based on this. And she didnt think reducing the cash 
settlement was fair. Therefore, she said Admiral should pay the full specified value of 
£9,800.
Admiral didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I take into account all the facts of the case, including the policy terms and any 
relevant rules and legislation, my remit also includes what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. Having considered everything, I agree with the overall 
outcome reached by our investigator.
Mr and Mrs I specified a diamond ring on their policy for £9,800. This is what they had paid 
for it. Following the loss of the stone, based on the description, Admirals supplier says the 
value would have been £17,804, so significantly higher than it was specified for.
Mr and Mrs Is policy says that in the event of underinsurance, Admiral may proportionately 
reduce a claim settlement:
If you do not tell us about any mistakes in or changes to the details in your policy 
documents, we may reduce the claims settlement proportionately, as set out in the 
example below, or even refuse to pay your claim at all.
For example, if the details you provided when arranging cover are incorrect, meaning 
the premium you paid was only 75% of what it should have been, we will pay no 
more than 75% of your claim. 
Our investigator asked Admiral to confirm how much more the premiums would have been if 
the value of the ring had been specified for £17,804. Admiral provided evidence that the 
premium would have been an additional £26 for the year, so Mr and Mrs I had paid 92% of 
the premiums if the ring had been specified for the higher amount. However, Admiral hasnt 
applied this approach when reducing the settlement.
Instead, as Admiral say they werent able to repair or replace the item for the amount 
specified, Admiral have taken the approach of simply deducting the discount percentage 
they say they would have received from their supplier (33%) to what was the declared 
specified value at the time. I dont think that approach is fair. The policy terms dont outline 
this is how claims would be settled in these circumstances, and this is significantly more than 
if Admiral was to apply the average term in the policy. 
Admiral has received the premium for £9,800 of cover. Taking Admirals approach here of 
simply deducting the 33% discount from the specified value, Mr and Mrs have paid for cover 
that they would never have been able to benefit from and I dont think Admirals deduction 
here is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Admiral says they would have expected Mr and Mrs I to have specified the value at todays 
market rates when taking out the policy, which they say is £17,804. So, they say 
Mr and Mrs I didnt answer the question correctly and as a result are underinsured. But 
Admiral hasnt been able to provide evidence of the exact questions asked at point of sale. Instead, Admiral have provided different screen shots of what may have been asked, which 
isnt persuasive in showing exactly what was asked. And in any event, these screen shots 
dont explain what the specified value should be  price paid new, current price second 
hand, current price new etc. Instead, these (if they are in fact the questions asked) just 
simply say cost to replace it and do you have any items over £1,000 you wish to protect. In 
my view, that is a vague way to ask the question, and subject to the opinion of the proposer 
on how they should answer it, rather than a specific fact that Admiral was trying to obtain 
with guidance or explanation of how they were expecting this to be answered.
Mr and Mrs I specified the ring at what they paid for it several years before, which included 
the employee discount they received, rather than retail value at that time. Mr and Mrs I 
expected what they paid was the most they would ever be entitled to claim for, and they 
were satisfied that would put them back in the same position if they ever needed to claim. 
They believed that to specify the value for a higher amount than they paid would be 
fraudulent and trying to gain financial benefit for more than they were entitled to. And I think 
thats a reasonable explanation why they specified the ring for the amount they did.
So given Admiral hasnt shown a clear question was asked about what the specified amount 
should be based on, I dont think Mr and Mrs I have answered the question unreasonably.
The policy terms do mention that the amount isnt index linked, but also say it is for the 
policyholder to make sure they have enough cover, and that Admiral wouldnt pay more than 
the specified amount and Mr and Mrs I were satisfied they did have enough cover, as thats 
all they thought they were entitled to and were satisfied with that. Furthermore, the specified 
item section on the schedule explicitly says that no valuation for the ring is required. So as 
far as Mr and Mrs I were aware, they answered the question reasonably, for the cover they 
expected to have, which was what they paid for the ring. 
As Mr and Mrs I have paid for £9,800 cover, which they expected was the correct amount 
they should specify the ring for based on what they were asked for, and because I think they 
answered that reasonably, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
Admiral to settle the claim for the specified amount of £9,800. 8% simple interest should also 
be added to the additional amount due from the date of the previous settlement to the date 
of the payment of the remainder.
Whilst Im directing Admiral to increase the settlement to £9,800, Admiral already said they 
have waived the excess as a gesture of goodwill and theyve also offered £150 
compensation, I think thats fair for what has happened including the conflicting claims 
decisions. So, I wont be awarding any further compensation on top of this.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
Increase the total settlement to £9,800
Add 8% simple interest* from date of payment of the previous settlement to date of 
payment of the remainder 
Pay the £150 compensation already offered, if they havent already done so
*If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs I how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs I a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman