DRN-4383978
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited settled his claim for a stolen 
pickup under his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P purchased a new pickup in August 2022. In December 2022 his pickup was stolen so 
he claimed on his policy with Admiral.
Admiral reviewed the claim and accepted it. It said the policy provided a new vehicle 
replacement as Mr Ps was less than 12 months old. However, Admiral said it couldnt 
provide the new replacement for around 9 months. Because of this Mr P was offered the 
market value in settlement of his claim which he reluctantly accepted. As he wasnt happy 
with how the claim had been settled, he complained. 
Admiral reviewed the complaint and partly upheld it. It agreed the claim had taken too long 
and paid Mr P £150 compensation. However, it thought the amount it had paid for the market 
value of Mr Ps pickup was fair. Unhappy with Admirals response Mr P brought his 
complaint here, he didnt think the amount he had been paid was fair, as hed bought the 
pickup a few months earlier. He also said he wasnt happy Admiral hadnt offered a new 
replacement pickup as it should under the terms and said hed been left without one while 
his claim was dealt with. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that 
Admiral couldnt provide the new replacement pickup within a reasonable time and so Mr P 
had no choice but to accept the market value. He thought that as Admiral couldnt provide a 
new replacement pickup it should pay Mr P what it would cost him to buy an equivalent new 
one or provide a new equivalent pickup to Mr P. He also recommended Admiral increase the 
compensation paid to £250.  
Admiral didnt agree with our investigator. It said Mr P had accepted the market value and it 
thought its offer was fair. It also said by paying him what it would cost him to buy a like for 
like new replacement meant it was providing a benefit not covered by the policy. 
As Admiral didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that Mr P has suffered a loss covered by the policy, his stolen pickup. And that 
the claim meets the requirements of the New Vehicle replacement section of the policy. 
However, as Admiral couldnt provide the pickup in a reasonable time it paid Mr P the market 
value. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say: If you do not want us to replace your vehicle, or 
a vehicle of the same model and specification is not available from UK stock, the most we 
will pay is the market value.
Ive considered this and that its not disputed that Admiral would take nine months to provide 
the new replacement pickup. In doing so Im not persuaded its acted fairly and reasonably in 
this case. I say this because Admiral was able to provide the replacement pickup, but this 
would take several months. Mr P holds a commercial policy with Admiral and uses his pickup 
for work, he was therefore unable to wait nine months for a replacement one. Admiral should 
have looked at other options in how it could support Mr P, given it couldnt provide what it 
was supposed to under the policy in a reasonable time. 
As Admiral didnt do this it meant Mr P had to accept the market value for his pickup, which 
hes explained was a few thousand pounds less than he paid a few months earlier. Our 
investigator suggested Admiral pay Mr P the difference in what it would cost him to buy a 
new like for like replacement pickup, and what Admiral paid for the market value for his 
pickup. 
While I understand this isnt technically covered by the policy, Im satisfied its a fair and 
reasonable option when Admiral couldnt provide what it was supposed to, in a reasonable 
time. Therefore, Admiral needs to pay the difference in price for Mr P for a new like for like 
replacement pickup and what it paid as the market value for his pickup. Admiral should also 
add 8% simple interest to the additional amount it pays, calculated from the date it paid the 
settlement, until the date payment is made. This is to compensate Mr P for not having the 
money. I understand our investigator also gave the option to provide Mr P a new like for like 
pickup. Admiral couldnt do this in a reasonable time and Mr P previously didnt accept it due 
to the time frame, so Im satisfied the fair answer is to pay the difference rather than give the 
option, as Ive explained above. 
I can also see Mr Ps said he spent a lot of time calling and chasing Admiral. In its final 
response it awarded him £150 compensation for that. When taking this into account, 
alongside Admiral not treating Mr P fairly in regard to the new car replacement, Im 
persuaded it should increase this by £100.Mr P has also raised concerns about not having a 
replacement vehicle and the impact this had on him. As his claim involved a total loss, the 
policy doesnt provide a courtesy vehicle. And while Admiral could have handled the claim 
better, Im satisfied the £250 compensation offered above is sufficient to put things right for 
Mr P. Im therefore not going to tell Admiral to pay anymore.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
1. Pay Mr P the difference in the market value it paid, and the price Mr P would need to 
pay to buy a like for like new replacement pickup at the time of loss. It should also 
add 8% interest to the additional amount it pays, calculated from the date it paid the 
claim until the date payment is made. 
2. Pay Mr P £250 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman