DRN-3092402
The complaint
Mr B, acting as deputy under an order of the Court of Protection (CoP) for Mr M, complains 
about the service received from Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) following an application for 
a savings bond. Hes unhappy the application was delayed because BOI requested 
unnecessary information, and the CoP documentation was lost in the post because BOI 
didnt return it by recorded delivery.       
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. The facts about what happened are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision.
In summary, Mr Bs unhappy BOI didnt progress the application until it received a letter from 
Mr Ms care home which also included his date of birth. He says the CoP documentation 
confirms Mr Ms date of birth. 
Mr B would also like to know why BOI considers the CoP documentation differently to the 
Power of Attorney (PoA) documentation which its willing to return by recorded delivery. And 
hed like to know why BOI didnt acknowledge his complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
BOI states it can only consider correspondence from a care home as proof of 
address for an applicant if it also includes their date of birth. So, its not the case that 
BOI was seeking confirmation of Mr Ms date of birth. It required this information to 
be included in the letter from Mr Ms care home for it to be considered as an 
acceptable proof of address. This, along with Mr Ms proof of identity and other 
documentation, was needed to complete account opening checks. 
Rules and regulations require financial businesses to carry out due diligence at the 
time of opening an account. The initial care home correspondence BOI received 
included Mr Ms name as the only information relating to his personal identity. I dont 
consider it unreasonable of BOI to want such correspondence to also include 
additional personal data, such as the date of birth, so it can verify the residential 
information provided does in fact relate to the applicant. 
Id like to reassure Mr B any delay in opening the savings bond as a result of 
requesting additional information hasnt resulted in a financial loss to Mr M. BOI has 
backdated the bond start date to when cleared funds were received. This means 
interest is being earnt on the funds from the earliest available opportunity. 
With regards to why BOI treats CoP and PoA documentation differently when it 
comes to returning documents by recorded delivery, our investigators already shared 
BOIs reasons with Mr B. It says copies of the CoP documentation are readily 
available and the cost of obtaining one is relatively low. Its not this services role to 
regulate what postal delivery method a business should use to return documents. But 
the investigator has explained  and I agree  essentially CoP and PoA are both 
legal documents and serve a similar purpose. And BOIs own literature refers to them 
interchangeably and suggests they work in the same way. 
Under the circumstances, I dont consider it unreasonable for Mr B to have assumed 
BOI would return the CoP documentation by recorded delivery. This didnt happen, 
and unfortunately the documentation got lost in the post. I understand a copy can be 
requested by writing to the Court of Protection and theres a £5 fee for this. In the 
circumstances, its only fair that BOI covers this cost. 
Ive also considered Mr Bs concerns about BOI not acknowledging his complaint. 
Hes told us his wife complained to BOI initially and he complained a few days later 
when she didnt hear back. I can understand why Mr B is frustrated as I can see the 
final response letter BOI sent him in March 2021 acknowledges the complaint raised 
by his wife. It seems Mr B was expecting a separate response to the complaint he 
raised a few days after his wife. The concerns he and his wife raised with BOI relate 
to the same bond. When Mr B called, a complaint had already been set up based on 
the phone call his wife had made a few days earlier. Notes from his conversation with 
an agent were added to the existing complaint. 
I dont consider it unreasonable for BOI to have considered the matter under one 
complaint reference. BOI issued its final response to Mr B once it had concluded its 
investigation. I think it would have been helpful if in its final response BOI had also 
acknowledged Mr Bs phone call. But I dont consider failure to do so means it needs 
to do anything further in this regard. I say this because Im satisfied BOI investigated 
and sent its response to Mr B in accordance with the regulators complaint handling 
rules. It also provided him with referral rights to our service if he remained dissatisfied 
 a right hes since exercised.
In summary, I dont think it was unreasonable for BOI to request additional information from 
Mr B before processing the bond application. But, for the reasons given, I think it should 
cover the cost Mr B will incur in obtaining a copy of the CoP order.   
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should pay Mr B £5.
I understand Mr B has said he would like this money to be paid to charity. If Mr B chooses to 
accept this decision, its open to him to:
- make a payment to a charity of his choice directly once hes received the money from 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc;
OR
- give Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc the necessary instructions to allow it to make a 
payment to a charity of his choice.
Ill leave it open to Mr B and Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to arrange this directly.  My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
needs to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman