DRN-3812127
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible in its 
lending to her. 
What happened
Miss M took out a credit card with Barclaycard in August 2012. The initial limit of £6,800 was
reviewed and increased in December 2014 to £10,800. The limit was decreased in 2016 to 
£9,200 and increased again to £12,200 in August 2018.
In February 2021 Miss M raised a complaint with Barclaycard about the decisions to 
increase the credit limit. Miss M says Barclaycard didnt properly assess her financial 
situation before increasing her limit on both occasions and she experienced financial 
difficulty as a result of its irresponsible lending. Barclaycard investigated the complaint and 
issued a final response letter in April 2021 saying it wasnt upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M referred her complaint to our service. Barclaycard objected to us looking at the first
credit limit increase in 2014. It said Miss M had referred her complaint to the service outside
the time limits that apply. It did however say we could consider the 2018 lending decision,
which an investigator looked into and found Barclaycard acted fairly in granting the increase.
The investigator agreed with Barclaycards view that Miss M had brought part of her
complaint too late. Miss M did not agree with this and asked for an ombudsman review as 
she wanted her whole complaint considered. I issued my jurisdiction decision on                                    
7 November 2022 explaining why we could consider the initial increase in 2014. Miss Ms 
case was passed back to the investigator who looked into the 2014 increase and found that 
it this increase was also fairly provided by Barclaycard. 
Dissatisfied with the investigators review of the merits of her complaint, Miss M asked for 
her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ms complaint. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Miss M, but having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion 
as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure      
Miss M could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts, Miss Ms borrowing history and her income and expenditure. 
But there isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to ensure the 
checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of credit being 
provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the consumers 
circumstances.
Miss M hasnt raised concerns about Barclaycards decision to provide her with the credit 
card. So, I will focus my decision on the two credit limit increases. 
2014 credit limit increase 
Barclaycard hasnt provided much information about the checks it did when it approved this 
credit limit increase. But due to the time that has passed I dont think this is unusual as 
businesses arent required to hold information for more than six years. But it does mean that 
I have to base my decision on limited information.
So, I ve looked at the information I do have  primarily Miss Ms credit card account 
statements. Having done so, while I can see that there was significant spending, Miss M did 
not exceed her existing limit, and in the months prior to the increase she had made 
significant progress in reducing the overall balance on the credit card. For example, in 
September 2014, Miss M made a payment of £3,500 towards her balance, almost halving 
the amount she owed. In general, the spending on Miss Ms card and current account at the 
time didnt show any signs of her using the accounts in a way not intended, or that she was 
struggling financially. For example, I cant see any evidence of gambling activity or cash 
withdrawals on her credit card.  And although Miss M was close to the limit on occasion, she 
wasnt using all her available credit and was occasionally making repayments above the 
minimum required. 
Ive also looked at Miss Ms credit file. And this doesnt show any new defaults or county 
court judgements. There also isnt anything within it to show Miss M had issues with 
managing credit elsewhere. 
This all suggests to me that Miss M wasnt reliant on credit and could afford to maintain the 
outstanding balance at the time the credit limit was increased. So, based on the information 
available to me, I find it more likely than not that this credit limit was affordable to Miss M. 
2018 credit limit increase
In 2016 Miss Ms credit limit was decreased to £9,200. It was then increased to £12,200 in 
August 2018. 
Barclaycard says it received data from a credit reference agency before it approved this 
credit limit increase which it then matched against its lending criteria. Barclaycard says this 
data suggests there were no known indications Miss M would struggle with her new limit. But 
looking at the data I can see it isnt very informative in understanding Miss Ms actual 
financial situation at the time.
Barclaycard hasnt been able to provide anything more about what it considered. So, Ive 
again looked at the credit card account statements in the lead up to this change as well as 
Miss Ms current account statements to ascertain whether Miss M was able to afford the 
increase provided.
The statements show Miss M was generally managing her accounts well. Miss M says she 
had an income of roughly £22,000, and her current account statements, along with 
Barclaycards noted income for her, broadly support this. There were also no signs of Miss M 
using the credit card account in a way not intended, or her struggling financially, in the lead up to the limit increase. For example, I cant see any gambling activity or a reliance on the 
account for day-to-day spending. Miss Ms current account also shows the general day to 
day spending you would expect to see on a current account.
I do note there being various lines of credit being used by Miss M at the time her limit was 
increased. This is supported by the information Ive seen in her credit file, which shows a 
new loan was taken out with Barclays earlier in 2018. But, significantly, the information 
shows Miss M was able to meet the repayments on the existing commitments she had with 
her income. Even when Miss M went into her overdraft on her current account, it was 
cleared swiftly once she received her salary. The minimum monthly repayment on the card if 
Miss M was to use the entire £12,200 limit was roughly £280 a month. Based on the 
information I have seen I think it was fair for Barclaycard to find that Miss M wouldve been 
able to meet this commitment. 
Miss M says the increase to £12,200 wasnt appropriate given she wasnt earning much 
more than the credit limit at the time. Miss Ms income wouldve been one of many factors 
taken into account by Barclaycard when making its decision. Overall, it appeared that      
Miss M was generally managing her finances satisfactorily at the time the limit was 
increased. 
Miss M has also explained the reason she kept up with repayments was because she 
worked in the financial sector, and regular credit checks were carried out due to her role. I 
understand Miss Ms employment will have heightened the importance of her meeting her 
financial commitments. But this doesnt mean Barclaycard lent irresponsibly. 
Based on the information Ive seen I think the credit limit increase was affordable for Miss M. 
Miss M didnt demonstrate any obvious signs of financial difficulty or over indebtedness, so I 
dont think Barclaycard has acted unfairly in approving this credit limit. 
I am sorry to hear of Miss Ms struggles with her finances. I appreciate the outstanding 
balance is an on-going worry for her. Barclaycard has asked Miss M to get in touch so it can 
discuss her options going forward. And I would urge her to do so.
I know my decision will not be the outcome Miss M was hoping for and she will be 
disappointed with the decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity 
around why I wont be asking Barclaycard to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman