DRN-3829819
The complaint
Mr C complains about the price BUPA Insurance Limited has charged him for his personal 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
At renewal in 2022, Mr C noticed that the price of his Bupa by You personal private medical 
insurance policy had increased by around 70.9%. He was unhappy with the level of increase 
and so he complained to BUPA.
BUPA said the premium had been calculated correctly. It told Mr C that his premium had 
gone up due to a number of factors, including a reduction in his no-claims discount (NCD); a 
change of address and scheme increase.
Mr C remained unhappy with the price rise hed experienced and so he asked us to look into 
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She explained that were not 
able to tell BUPA how it should assess risk or what price it should charge to cover that risk. 
But she was satisfied that BUPA had shown the main reasons for the increase in premium 
were because of the change in Mr Cs address; the scheme increase and the NCD 
reduction. So she didnt think the evidence indicated that BUPA had treated Mr C unfairly.  
Mr C disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, I think BUPA has treated him fairly and 
Ill explain why. 
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr Cs. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk. 
BUPAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, claims relating to Mr Cs health). And if it does, what price it needs to charge for 
that.
So BUPA will have assessed the risk of Mr C needing to make a claim when he first joined 
the BUPA by You scheme and then at each yearly renewal afterwards. If it thinks the risk 
has gone up (for example, because the risk-profile has increased or because health care 
costs have gone up), then it may need to put up the premium. So in complaints like these, 
what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate the premium and whether 
its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mr C has been treated in the same 
way as any other BUPA customer in similar circumstances and hasnt been singled out in 
any way. 
Its clear that following the 2022 renewal, Mr Cs premium increased significantly. So I can 
understand why Mr Cs worried that BUPA hasnt treated him reasonably.
BUPA has provided me with commercially sensitive, actuarial information to show how the 
renewal price in 2022 was calculated. Im afraid that Im unable to share this information with 
Mr C, although I understand he has been given a summary breakdown by BUPA to explain 
the price rise. I hope it reassures Mr C to know that I have considered all of this evidence 
carefully. 
What I am able to tell Mr C are the main reasons for the price increase. In this case, one 
factor was the change of Mr Cs address. While Mr C may largely have been able to access 
the same hospital list, BUPA said the claims itd paid out were higher in Mr Cs new 
postcode area. And BUPAs evidence clearly shows the impact the change in Mr Cs 
address had on the annual premium he was charged for cover.  Theres also been a 
scheme-wide increase in costs  which takes into account factors such as medical inflation. 
The largest component part of the increase was caused by Mr Cs NCD dropping by three 
levels from the previous policy year. This drop was down to Mr C needing to make a claim 
during the previous year, which BUPA settled. The evidence indicates that the NCD reduced 
in line with the NCD scale set out and explained in Mr Cs policy schedule.
Id add too that Im satisfied that BUPA gave Mr C clear information about different steps he 
could take to reduce the price  such as changing his current level of cover or taking out a 
new, underwritten policy. It was also Mr Cs choice to remain with BUPA  it was open to him 
to look elsewhere for a cheaper policy if hed wished to do so.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied BUPAs treated Mr C in the same way it 
would any other policyholder who held a BUPA by You policy in similar circumstances to his 
own. So I cant reasonably say its treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman