DRN-4069391
The complaint
Mr J complains that he wasnt able to contact OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent 
Reliance, when his existing mortgage deal was coming to an end. He wanted to remortgage, 
and was worried as rates were continually increasing, but Kent wouldnt get in touch.
What happened
Mr J asked us to look into his complaint in mid-November 2022. He needed to remortgage, 
as his existing mortgage deal was ending soon. He said he hadnt been able to log into his 
mortgage account online. Hed repeatedly tried to contact Kent about this. Hed emailed a 
number of times, but never received anything other than an automated reply. He told us hed 
also repeatedly called, and but he just stayed at around the same position in the queue (with 
almost a hundred callers in front of him) until the close of business, when his call was cut off. 
Mr J said interest rates had risen, and continued to do so. He feared that the mortgage he 
would get now would be much more than he could have secured earlier. And he said that 
because Kent wasnt replying to him, it looked as if hed have to remortgage with a different 
lender, which would cost him around £500 in fees and solicitors costs. 
Mr J then contacted us again, to say hed been back through his emails, and could see hed 
contacted Kent in August, October and twice in November, as well as calling, but Kent never 
responded. He said hed made a formal complaint on 1 October, but hed had no response 
to that either, just letters saying Kent couldnt deal with his complaint yet. 
Kent sent Mr J its complaint response letter on 16 December. That letter said Kent was sorry 
about the level of service it had provided to Mr J.
Kent said it sends a letter to its customers around three months before their old mortgage 
product expires, telling them how to take out a new deal. There had been delays in sending 
that letter to Mr J. And because of the volumes of work it had been dealing with, it hadnt 
been able to respond to Mr J earlier. It could see he was in touch on 4 August, and it had 
failed to respond to him by email, as hed requested. Mr J chased for an update on 1 
October, and sent more emails throughout November 2022. Mr Js new mortgage was 
reserved for him on 2 December 2022. 
Kent said this remortgage had been completed on time and Mr Js account hadnt been 
impacted. But it paid him £75 to say sorry that it had failed to respond to his emails. 
Mr J said he hadnt received this payment, or the letter. And he didnt think £75 was enough 
to make up for what had gone wrong. 
Our investigator asked Kent some questions about when Mr J could have remortgaged, and 
the rate which would have been available to him at this time. Then she said she thought this 
complaint should be upheld. 
Our investigator accepted that Mr J had tried repeatedly to contact Kent about switching his 
mortgage, starting in August 2022. But Kent didnt respond, or reserve Mr Js new mortgage 
interest rate, until 2 December. 
Our investigator said, as Kent allows its customers to choose a new mortgage rate three 
months before the old rate expires, it should have allowed Mr J to choose a new rate at the 
end of September. And if it had done so, Mr J would now have a rate of 5.54%, not 6.24%. 
Our investigator said Kent should rework Mr Js mortgage, to apply a rate of 5.54% from the 
date that his new rate of 6.24% had been applied. And Kent should refund the difference for 
the payments Mr J had made on the higher rate so far, with 8% statutory interest.
Our investigator also said Kent caused Mr J a lot of worry as rates were increasing rapidly 
during this time. Mr J didnt know when he could select a new rate or if he was going onto 
Kents Standard Variable Rate (SVR). So she said Kent should increase its compensation 
payment to £150. 
Mr J accepted, but Kent didnt. Kent said Mr Js account doesnt have online access. The 
letter it sent told him he needed to complete and return a paper form. The website address it 
gave Mr J, to look up products available to him, also confirmed the application for his 
remortgage was paper based. 
Kent accepted it hadnt replied to Mr J in August, but said if it had done, it would just have 
told Mr J that it would write to him around three months before his existing product ended.
Kent said the earliest Mr J could have secured a new mortgage product, if he didnt want to 
pay the early repayment charge on his old mortgage, would have been on receipt of the 
letter dated 11 October 2022. And any new product would then only start on 1 January 2023. 
Our investigator said Mr Js emails requesting help still went unanswered. Kent had written 
to Mr J on 11 October, but he was eligible for a new rate three months before 31 December 
2022, so she asked why this letter hadnt been issued at the end of September. Kent didnt 
respond to these queries, and our investigator didnt change her mind. So this complaint 
came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Kent has shown us Mr J remortgaged with an interest rate of 6.24% fixed for two years. And 
its also told us that, if Mr J remortgaged between 15 September 2022 to 6 October 2022, he 
could have obtained a rate of 5.54% for the same fixed term period. 
Kents letter to Mr J, which told him how to remortgage, was issued on 11 October 2022. The 
complaint response letter which Kent later sent to Mr J acknowledges there was a delay in 
issuing this letter. So I think its reasonable to conclude this letter should have been issued 
by the end of September. 
Its also clear that Mr J was already concerned about his remortgage at this time. Hed 
emailed Kent to try to find out how to remortgage, and he tried again to get Kent to help on 1 
October. So I think if this letter had been issued earlier, and if Kent had responded to Mr Js enquiries at the time, then Mr J would have secured a rate of 5.54% for the two years 
starting from 1 January 2023. 
Thats why I think our investigator was right to say Kent should now rework Mr Js mortgage, 
as if it went onto a rate of 5.54% on 1 January 2023. And it should repay to Mr J any 
overpayments hes made to date, as a result of being on the higher rate, plus 8% simple 
interest on that refund, from the date of payment to the date the refund is made. I think that 
provides part of a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Our investigator also noted how stressful Mr J had found this process. I think Mr Js contact 
with Kent, and then with our service, demonstrates how very concerned he was by not being 
able to secure his remortgage at the earliest possible opportunity, and the worries he had 
about rising interest rates. For those reasons, I also think that Kent should increase the 
compensation payable in this case. I think a payment of £150 would provide part of a fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint, so I will require Kent to pay that amount in total. 
Kent says it has already paid Mr J £75 in this case, but Mr J said he hadnt received that. Its 
possible the payment was just delayed, so Ill allow Kent to count towards this award any 
payment it has already made to Mr J for this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance must rework Mr Js 
mortgage, so that it went onto its rate of 5.54% on 1 January 2023, fixed for two years, and 
must pay Mr J interest at 8% simple on any overpayment he has made, calculated from the 
date of each overpayment to the date the refund is made. 
HM Revenue and Customs requires OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance to take 
off tax from this interest. OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance must give Mr J a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance must also pay Mr J a total of £150 in 
compensation. It can count towards that amount, any payment it has already made to Mr J 
for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman