DRN-3319637
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy at the changes to Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) charging structure. She 
feels the charges are too high and have an impact on her salary and are unfair.
What happened
Ms N complained to Barclays that the overdraft charges applied to her account were unfair.
Barclays says Ms N was notified of the change in charging structure in March 2020 and that
all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and reached the conclusion Barclays
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms N unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint
be upheld. Ms N disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint.
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Ms N raised her complaint in May 2021 in relation to charges applied to her overdraft. Six
years before she raised her complaint is May 2015. And as the charges for use of the
overdraft wouldve been notified to Ms N at the time they were being applied, I think she
ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or causing financial
difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Ms N ought to be reasonably aware
she had reason to complaint provides her with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I
will only be looking at charges applied from May 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ns complaint. Ill
explain why in a little more detail.
Ms N has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to her account. But before I
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various
amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in
comparison to the costs of the service provided.
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Barclayss various
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms N if it
applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Ns account in circumstances where it was
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms N was experiencing financial
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Ms N fairly and
reasonably. I dont think that Barclays did treat Ms N unfairly or unreasonably here though. I
say this because having looked at Ms Ns statements I cant see anything to suggest that
Barclays ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to
it being notified of this.
Ms N had a £100 overdraft limit and I accept that Ms N regularly used her overdraft, but I
can see she received a regular income and was often able to bring her account back into
credit, before once again utilising the overdraft facility.
So I cant say there is anything which ought to have alerted Barclays to any potential
financial difficulty. And in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for
Barclays to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Ms Ns
account was being used.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays treated Ms N unfairly or
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Rob Doe
Ombudsman