DRN-2417618
The complaint
Mr B complains about Capquest Debt Recovery Limited recording late payment markers on 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr B has been in a debt management plan (DMP) arrangement with debt charity for over 
10 years. He pays Capquest - and other creditors - via the charity and this has worked well 
for all parties for long period of time. Unfortunately, on a few occasions since December 
2018, due to the way the weekends have fallen, his payment has reached Capquest a day or 
two later than the expected repayment date. This has led to Capquest registering late 
payments on Mr B's credit file.
Capquest looked into Mr B's complaint and issued a final response in April 2019. They said 
the collection and reporting of the debt was outsourced and driven by a third party company 
who appear to act as their agent. Capquest agreed to remove one late payment marker but 
not others as they said there had been no error. 
Mr B was unhappy with Capquests response, so brought his complaint to us and one of our 
investigators looked into it. She acknowledged that it was been technically correct for late 
payment markers to have been applied as there has been the odd occasion where the 
money has been received by Capquest a day late. But she reminded Capquest that our 
remit is to assess cases on the basis of what's fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
She asked Capquest to change the due date to a few days later and remove the late 
payment markers. Capquest rejected her request saying that they were unable to move the 
date but didnt provide any explanation.
Our investigator changed her opinion on the case as Capquest told her it wasnt possible to 
change the date, and told Mr B. As he was unhappy with the outcome, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision
I sent Mr B and Capquest my provisional decision on 25 September 2020. I said:
Its important to note that my decision is based on what I feel is fair and reasonable because 
the rules that govern our service oblige me to do so. The rules are set out in the dispute 
resolution section (DISP) of the handbook of the Financial Conduct Authority. DISP 3.6.1 
says the ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
I dont think theres any dispute that Capquest has occasionally received a payment a day or 
two later than they wished. But equally, there appears to be no dispute that Mr B is making 
payments under his DMP to the debt charity in good time and the debt is up to date in 
accordance with his agreement with Capquest. The problem here is that by the time the 
payment has passed through the charitys system - and that of Capquests agent - due to 
weekends, it is very occasionally received late. 
When our investigator spoke to Capquest about this, she asked Capquest to change the due 
date by a few days so that this problem wouldnt recur. In conversations Ive listened to 
between our investigator and Capquest, they agreed it would be the most straightforward 
solution. They suggested it may be difficult but was possible. They asked her to put her 
request in writing and it would be considered.  
Our investigator wrote to Capquest asking them to change the date by a few days and, if that 
wasnt possible, she asked for an explanation. Capquest responded simply saying we are 
unable to alter the contractual monthly payment date on this account. But no explanation 
has been given. 
I've carefully read the file on this complaint and listened to a number of the calls between 
this service and Capquest. I wrote to Capquest on 11 August 2020 asking them to either 
change the date or let me know why it cant be done. Despite chasers, Ive had no response. 
Its important to note there is no lack of good faith on Mr B's part - he's making payments 
under his DMP to the debt charity. They pay all his creditors on the same day as is fair and 
reasonable under the DMP - that way all creditors are treated the same. None of his other 
creditors have had a problem with the dates on which payments are made to them. There is 
no suggestion that Mr B is in arrears under the current agreement with Capquest, or that 
he's trying to avoid his obligations in anyway.
Mr B does all that I think he can reasonably be expected to do to ensure the payments are 
made on time  and in most months there are no problems. I dont think its fair that he 
should have late payment markers on his credit file when theres nothing further he can 
reasonably do to ensure the payments reach Capquest earlier. And there doesn't appear to 
be any particular detriment to Capquest by moving the date by a few days.
At the moment, in the absence of any full - and reasonable - explanation of why such a 
change cannot be made, I'm minded to say that a fair and reasonable outcome in this 
complaint is for Capquest to change the due date of Mr B's payments to 14th of the month 
and remove the late markers theyve applied to his credit record so far.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision, subject to the further submissions of the parties, is that I uphold this
complaint. Capquest Debt Recovery Limited should:
Change the due date of Mr Bs payment to 14th of each month
Remove any late payment markers already applied to Mr Bs credit file as a result of 
this issue.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. Capquest didnt. They said theyd escalated the 
issue to the partner manager and been advised that the billing cycle isnt something we 
would change as its specified within the Ts and Cs (terms and conditions).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I note that Capquest has said the 'billing cycle isn't something we would change...' [my 
emphasis]. That is very different from saying its something that actually cannot be changed 
and giving an explanation of why it can't be done.
I've noted various occasions throughout the investigation into this matter we've been told it's 
possible but unusual. Indeed, the terms and conditions do allow for the date to be changed 
in some circumstances, albeit I appreciate those particular circumstances don't apply here. 
Nonetheless, I note that the terms and conditions say it is possible for the date to be 
changed.
As I said in my provisional decision, Im required to reach my decision based on what I think 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr B is doing all he can reasonably do to ensure 
Capquest is paid on time. So I dont think its reasonable that his credit file should be 
adversely affected when the system doesnt work quickly enough leading to the payment 
reaching Capquest a day or so late. Nor do I think it would be reasonable to ask Mr B to 
make payments to Capquest outside his DMP or for the charity to prioritise payments to 
them. I can see no particular detriment to Capquest of changing the due date on Mr Bs 
account. In turn, Capquest have not suggested there would be any detriment to them or 
demonstrated that it cannot be done..
My final decision
My final decision is that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited should:
Change the due date of Mr Bs payment to 14th of each month
Remove any late payment markers already applied to Mr Bs credit file as a result of 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman