DRN-2743163
The complaint
 Mr G complains about the quality of a car he acquired using a hire purchase agreement 
from MotoNovo Finance Limited.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr G acquired a used car and quickly experienced problems with it. Ill 
not set out all the issues Mr G had with the car because both parties are fully aware them. 
After protracted correspondence and several inspections and repairs, MotoNovo agreed to 
allow Mr G to reject the car. They asked him to arrange the removal of private number plates 
and dashcams hed had fitted prior to inspection and collection of the car. 
The car has now been returned, but Mr G asked for a number of refunds for expenses 
arising from having a car of unsatisfactory quality. He listed these as:
£149 for a battery he had fitted.
£25 to complete the refund for repairs hed had done. MotoNovo and the dealer had 
already covered £500, but the bill had come to £525.
£143 cancellation fee for his motor insurance policy. 
£53 for fuel in car before it broke down and was returned back to him empty
£30 for fuel put back into the car the day he received it back
£256 (estimate) for a days wages lost
£80 to have private plates removed (the dashcams had been removed free of 
charge)
£600 compensation.
MotoNovo have paid him a total of £380, representing £30 fuel costs and £350 
compensation, but they refused the further expenses hed listed. As Mr G was unhappy with 
the offer, he referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs 
complaint and upheld it in part. He recommended that MotoNovo should refund all the 
expenses claimed by Mr G except the lost wages and he felt the claim for compensation was 
too high; in that respect, he felt MotoNovos offer was reasonable.
MotoNovo agreed to increase their offer to include the £25 for the repairs and cover the 
insurance cancellation upon receipt of evidence of it. But they refused the other items. 
Mr G accepted the investigators opinion but highlighted a further expense of GAP insurance 
- £199  paid to MotoNovo which he also wanted to be refunded. He also said that 
MotoNovo had recorded three missed payments on his credit file in the months following 
their collection of the car.
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I've carefully reviewed the file and I can see the dispute was protracted as there were 
several issues with the vehicle. Ultimately, I think it was a sensible decision to allow the 
rejection of the vehicle. The only remaining points to be resolved are regarding costs Mr G 
incurred while he had the vehicle and as a result of the rejection of it.
Ive previously written separately to MotoNovo asking them to consider refunding the 
remaining amounts claimed, but they have refused to do so. They have however confirmed 
that they will remove the three months missed payments from Mr Gs credit file. It remains 
my view that MotoNovo should refund the majority of the outstanding items. Ill explain why.
£149 for a battery
Mr G had the battery replaced by a well-known roadside assistance company when the car 
broke down. MotoNovo have said this was an unauthorised repair which had been 
misdiagnosed as it didnt resolve the issues. They say Mr G should have reported the fault to 
them. But if the car had been of satisfactory quality, hed not have had to pay this as the car 
wouldnt have broken down. 
I understand MotoNovos argument that he should have gone back to them rather than have 
a new battery fitted. But he took advice from a well-respected business that the battery 
needed to be changed and did so. I wouldnt necessarily expect Mr G to question the advice 
he received or to raise it with MotoNovo as he believed that would resolve the issue and he 
could move on and hed broken down at the time. Had he contacted MotoNovo, I think its 
unlikely hed have been advised to ignore the advice of the roadside assistance company. I 
think its fair and reasonable that he should be reimbursed for the cost of it.   
£199 for GAP insurance
In their email to Mr G of 13 February 2020 concerning the rejection of the car, MotoNovo 
agreed hed receive a refund of the GAP insurance. I note too that Mr G has provided a 
screen print of his MotoNovo account and a bank statement that both show this payment. In 
the circumstances, I think its reasonable think they should refund it.
£80 for the removal of a personalised plate
MotoNovo have said it was Mr Gs decision to put the personalised plates on the car and he 
should therefore stand the cost of their removal. I understand that position. But Mr G had the 
personalised plates put on the car in anticipation of keeping it for five years. Had Mr G been 
aware that hed be returning the car within six months, I dont think hed have added the 
personalised plates. I think its reasonable therefore, for him to be reimbursed for the 
expense of removal.
£53 for fuel
Mr G has provided evidence that he spent £53 on fuel just before the car was returned to the 
dealers for attempted repairs. The car was returned to him empty and he put £30 of fuel in it. 
MotoNovo has agreed to pay £30 as a gesture of goodwill. 
I accept, on the balance of probabilities, that the car wouldve been full when it was sent to 
the dealer and I accept take Mr Gs word for it that the car was empty when returned. Mr G 
had use of the £30 fuel he put in after the car was returned, so I dont think MotoNovo should 
have to pay him for that. Mr Gs financial loss on fuel is the £53 he put in before the repair was attempted. MotoNovo has agreed a refund of £30 fuel, so the difference is £23. l think 
MotoNovo should pay him that difference.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
ensure they have updated Mr Gs credit file and, 
pay Mr G the following along with interest at 8% simple from the date paid to the date the 
payment is made:
£149 for a battery he had fitted.
£25 to complete the refund for repairs hed had done. MotoNovo and the dealer had 
already covered £500, but the bill had come to £525.
the cancellation fee for his motor insurance policy (weve already forwarded evidence 
of this from Mr G to MotoNovo). 
£23 for fuel.
£80 to have private plates removed.
£199 for GAP insurance.
If MotoNovo Finance Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr G how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman