DRN-3195604
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland (BoS) wont refund payments he made on his credit 
card which he says were as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In late 2017 Mr T made a series of 
payments using his BoS Mastercard Credit card, these totalled around £10,000. The 
payments were made to a crypto-currency exchange. Mr T believed he was dealing with an 
investment firm B who were going to help him invest his money. He says this turned out to 
be a scam and he wasnt able to withdraw funds or access his account with B.
In 2020, Mr T contacted BoS, explained what had happened and asked them to reimburse 
him. Bos investigated but declined to offer a refund. Mr T complained, he doesnt think BoS 
did enough to protect him or to try to get his money back. When BoS maintained their 
position, the complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As he disagrees, Mr T has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
There is some suggestion in BoS complaint response that Mr T alleged these were 
unauthorised payments. Ive considered this and I think its most likely the payments were all 
authorised by him. They took place over a period of months but werent disputed until a few 
years later, despite appearing on the statements. Further to this several credits were made 
to the account to keep within the available credit limit. On balance, Im satisfied these were 
all authorised payments. 
I dont think the payments Mr T made on his credit card were so unusual that Id have 
expected BoS to have intervened at the time they were made. Ive considered the industry 
guidance that Mr T has highlighted to support why he thinks BoS ought to have done more. 
But even though some of the payments were greater than those that he commonly made, 
the account was managed within its credit limit and Im not persuaded the activity was 
sufficiently unusual or suspicious for BoS to reasonably conclude that Mr T was at risk of 
financial harm. 
Mr T asked BoS to consider a chargeback. BoS are bound by the card scheme providers 
chargeback rules which in this case is Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, 
I generally consider it to be good practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a 
reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a chargeback can only be made within the scheme 
rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to any sort 
of investment  there are also time limits. Any chargeback must be raised within 120 days of 
the date of transaction. As this time limit had already passed when Mr T contacted BoS in 
2020 (for all payments) I think it was fair and reasonable for BoS to not pursue a 
chargeback. 
Ive considered whether BoS ought to have raised a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. For this to have been a valid option there must have been an unbroken chain 
between the debtor (Mr T), creditor (BoS) and the supplier (B). And any claim being made 
would have to have related to a breach of contract and or a misrepresentation between Mr T 
and B in relation to a contract that was funded by the BoS credit card. 
But the payments made by Mr T were sent to a legitimate crypto exchange Ill refer to as C. 
And C didnt defraud him nor steal his money and they did not pass it onto a third party 
without his consent. It seems to me that C simply did what Mr T asked of them; in return for 
his Mastercard payments, they exchanged his payment for crypto and sent it on as 
instructed.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim 
for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against 
the supplier of goods or services. But it follows that if C did nothing wrong, as appears to be 
the case, there could not reasonably be a successful like claim against BoS (the creditor). 
There is no right under the 1974 Act to pursue a like claim against a third party (such as B) 
who was not privy to the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) chain. In short, a claim against C 
would fail as it appears they did nothing wrong and a claim against B would fail as the DCS 
chain was broken. So, as with the chargeback issue above, I can see no viable grounds 
under s.75 for upholding the complaint. 
Mr T has also referenced the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). This is a voluntary 
scheme which many banks have signed up to that is often able to assist victims of certain 
scams to get a refund. But it doesnt apply to card payments or payments made before it 
was introduced (May 2019). So I cant use this as a basis to ask BoS to provide a refund. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr T lost money in this way. But I dont think BoS ought to have 
stopped the original payments or could have done more to help in 2020 when Mr T informed 
them of what had happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman