DRN-4001640
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as J, complains that IWOCA Ltd didnt carry out 
sufficient due diligence or affordability checks before agreeing to lend J more money in 
June 2018.
J is represented in this complaint by Mr H, who is one of Js directors.
What happened
In April 2017, J borrowed £5,000 from IWOCA using a revolving credit facility. Js directors 
make no complaint about that initial 2017 loan (which was for less than they initially applied 
for), nor do they complain about anything else IWOCA did before June 2018. Js complaint is 
about the June 2018 increase in borrowing.
Mr H told us:
As at the time of the extended borrowing in June 2018, J owed more than £55,000 to 
a different finance provider. It also had other financial commitments.
On 1 June 2018 IWOCA increased Js credit limit from £5,000 to £14,000. But it did 
not ask for bank statements, re-check the guarantor security, or carry out any of the 
other relevant checks that it should have done. Instead, it simply asked for a 
turnover figure WITHOUT asking any relevant questions with regards to outgoings 
and future income/expenditure. This was reckless and lacked due diligence.
J had no fixed assets, rented its accommodation, and overall was in a poor financial 
position. 
Ultimately J was unable to repay the debt at the agreed rate due to a substantial 
industry change in June 2019. Any change to the income of the business, even a 
slight decrease in income, would have ensured that the company could not meet this 
commitment..
IWOCA told us:
Js loan was unregulated, but it still followed good industry practice  which it took 
from the Lending Standard Boards standards of lending practice for business 
customers.
When it made its 2017 lending decision, it relied on self-declared information from Js 
director, the companys credit file, and the directors personal credit file. For the 
subsequent increase, it relied upon the account history and a self-declared rise in 
annual turnover[and] found no information to suggest [J] wouldnt be able to meet 
repayments.
It considers Js directors would have known more than IWOCA did about its future 
plans and projected turnover. It says it is clear that J wanted to borrow more, and 
used the funds when they became available. It considers that it was not until July 
2019 that it became apparent that J was experiencing financial difficulties.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but didnt uphold it. He thought IWOCA 
had taken relevant information into account when making its 2018 lending decision, and he 
didnt think it had acted unreasonably.
Mr H did not agree with our investigator, and he asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Mr H said that if IWOCA had followed good industry practice, it would have 
seen that the June 2018 increase was unaffordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided detailed submissions in support of Js complaint. I confirm I have read 
and considered those submissions in full, even though I have not responded individually to 
all the points he has made. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. Our 
rules allow me to do this, and my approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as an alternative to the courts.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr H, but there is very little I can add to what our investigator 
has already said. I dont think IWOCA has done anything wrong, and so I dont think it would 
be fair for me to uphold Js complaint. 
Mr H and IWOCA agree that IWOCA should have assess[ed], from the information available 
at the time, whether the customer [J] will be able to repay [any additional borrowing] in a 
sustainable manner without incurring financial difficulty. The disagreement between them is 
about whether IWOCA properly carried out such an assessment.
Its clear that the actions IWOCA took in 2018 were not the same as the actions it took in 
2017. Mr H has made a particular point of the fact IWOCA asked to see the companys bank 
statements on three previous occasions but not immediately prior to the June 2018 increase.
I dont think it would have been wrong for IWOCA to have requested bank statements in 
2018, but nor do I think it was wrong for IWOCA to make its lending decision without those 
bank statements. Deciding whether or not to lend is a matter for IWOCAs commercial 
judgement, and I would not interfere with that unless I thought IWOCA had treated its 
customer unfairly.
Here, while I can see that Mr H has very strong feelings about the matter, I dont think 
IWOCA did treat J unfairly. It did carry out an assessment of Js ability to repay the loan. 
That assessment was not as detailed as Mr H believes it should have been, but nevertheless 
I think IWOCA was entitled to choose to rely on that assessment.
The evidence here shows that just before June 2018 one of Js directors told IWOCA she 
wanted funding to allow J to change its business model slightly, and to expand into a related 
area. She told IWOCA that the directors believed they had an opportunity which would have 
large costs in the short term but produce long term gains. It is evident that things did not turn 
out as the directors hoped, but that does not mean that IWOCA did anything wrong in 
agreeing to lend J more money. 
J was able to meet its obligations to IWOCA until July 2019. Mr H has explained that was 
only as a result J making significant cuts, and reducing the amount the directors were taking out of the business  which ultimately meant that the directors fell into mortgage arrears and 
lost their home in June 2020. Mr H also said that from July 2019 onwards, changes in Js 
industry meant that the cuts the directors had made were no longer enough, and payments 
to IWOCA could not be maintained.
I am very sorry to hear about the financial and health difficulties suffered by Mr H and his 
partner. In hindsight, I accept that Js payments to IWOCA turned out to be unaffordable. But 
I am looking here at what happened in June 2018, and at that time I dont think IWOCA 
could or should have known that J would not be able to afford to repay the increased 
borrowing in future. IWOCA was not responsible for the changes to Js industry, and as at 
June 2018 I consider it was reasonable for IWOCA to have believed that J would be able to 
repay the additional borrowing in a sustainable way without incurring financial difficulty. 
IWOCA would certainly have known that there was a risk that the loan would become 
unaffordable in future. That is always a risk, in both commercial and consumer lending. But 
the existence of that risk does not mean a lender was wrong to choose to lend, nor does it 
mean a borrower was wrong to choose to borrow.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against IWOCA Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman