DRN-3426766
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) recorded a fraud prevention 
marker against him. 
Background
In December 2019, Mr Cs account received payments totalling £1,650.00 (in three separate 
transfers of £1,100.00, £450 and £100) into his account. The funds left Mr Cs account as a 
result of cash withdrawals, transfers and card purchases within a couple of days.
Shortly afterwards, Nationwide received a notification from the institution, responsible for 
sending the payments, stating that the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. Nationwide decided to review Mr Cs account. As a result of its review, Nationwide 
decided to close the account and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr C.
Mr C eventually realised that Nationwide had recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him and made a complaint. Nationwide looked at Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. As 
Mr C remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns. He didnt think that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Nationwide has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr C is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Nationwide must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Cs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Nationwide also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr C was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This can include Mr C allowing someone else to use his account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Cs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Nationwide had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Cs account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Nationwide 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Before I go any further I think it might help for me to explain that Nationwides records did 
attempt to call Mr C to obtain his version of events before closing his account. But it was 
unable to get through to him. When Mr C referred his complaint to us, he told us, in his 
completed complaint form that his card was stolen 3 years ago, and fraud was done with it. 
He was unaware at the time because (he) didnt use it often.
Our adjudicator asked Mr C to elaborate upon this and he said he was approached by an 
older boy who went to his school. This boy said he needed to receive money from his mother 
but didnt have access to his account and asked whether Mr C would receive the payments 
for him. Although Mr C thought this sounded suspicious, as the older boy pressured him and 
made him feel bad he handed over his card as he didnt have much money in his account 
and didnt really use it. 
On returning to school after the weekend the boy approached Mr C for his personal 
identification number (PIN) and online banking details. Mr C didnt want to provide this and 
offered to withdraw the funds from the account himself. But the boy accused him of 
attempting to steal his money and he felt intimidated into doing what the boy wanted. This 
was also why he didnt tell anyone else about what had happened at the time. Upon 
reviewing the complaint our adjudicator noticed that the activity in question took place over 
the Christmas holidays and put this to Mr C. Mr C said that he might have handed over 
everything to the boy a couple of weeks before the holidays and that all the transactions 
which took place on his account after the fraudulent activity took place werent carried out by 
the boy.  
Ive thought about what Mr C has said. But Im afraid the available evidence doesnt support 
his version of events being plausible. Firstly, Nationwide has provided us with Mr Cs 
statements leading up to the activity in question. And the statements show that the account 
was being used regularly from at least September 2019. So this doesnt support Mr C having 
handed over his card and all his details because he wasnt using his account at this time.
Secondly, apart from the fraudulent activity itself (the transfers in, cash withdrawals and 
transfers out), the pattern of usage on Mr Cs account doesnt appear to alter too drastically 
after the fraudulent activity. The purchases made arent too dissimilar from those made as 
far back as September 2019. Indeed, there is at least one purchase using Mr Cs card which 
is made to an online retailer hed used previously. This doesnt support Mr C having 
unwittingly compromised his account in December 2019 either. 
Furthermore, there is at least one payment into Mr Cs account, after the fraudulent activity, 
which appears to have been made by a family member. I accept it is possible these funds 
were credited because Mr C was afraid to tell anyone what had happened. But I think its just 
as if not more likely that the funds were credited because Mr C had access to his account 
and the funds at this time.Im afraid the inconsistencies in what has been said, the incompatibility between Mr Cs 
version of events and the available evidence as well as Mr Cs inability to provide anything at 
all to corroborate what hes told us means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an 
unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in his 
account receiving fraudulent funds. So I dont think that Nationwide acted unfairly towards   
Mr C and Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr C  especially as he believes it is unfair that 
he is being burdened by something which took place a number of years ago and while he 
wasnt an adult. But even taking into account Mr Cs age and the impact he says the marker 
is having on him, I cant ignore the fact that the available evidence appears to support him 
having been complicit in fraudulent activity. So I hope Mr C will understand the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, Mr C might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman