DRN-4079215
The complaint
Ms P has complained about her car insurance broker, Carol Nash Insurance Consultants Ltd 
regarding how it handled her newly arranged policy, ultimately causing it to cancel.
Ms P has sometimes been represented by Mr B. In the main though, as Ms P is the 
policyholder and complainant, Ill refer only to her.
What happened
Ms P was looking to change insurer in May 2022. This wasnt long after shed been involved 
in an accident which was not her fault. Her broker, CN, asked her for various validation 
information such as her and Mr Bs driving licence records. But CN then became aware that 
whilst Ms P had told it of the non-fault accident, this was showing as a fault accident on the 
industry database. It told Ms P that an extra premium of around £45.00 would have to be 
charged. Ms P asked for time to make enquiries with the insurer that was handling the claim.
Ms P then sent CN details from the claim insurer but CN felt that wasnt enough. Ms P paid 
the extra premium and asked CN, if further detail was provided from the claim insurer, would 
that be enough and nothing else would be needed. CN said that was correct. Following 
further detail being received CN then refunded the additional premium. But it then asked 
Ms P for the other details it had requested previously. On 20 July CN said it would cancel the 
policy on 29 July if details werent received. Ms P was perturbed by this but did provide the 
information. However, the policy was cancelled, confirmed by CN in a letter sent to Ms Ps 
home. Ms P was on a driving holiday at the time though and only found the letter upon her 
return. She complained to CN.
CN felt it had adequately informed Ms P that the policy might and then did cancel. But it also 
accepted that the cancellation  instructed by the insurer because validation details hadnt 
been received  had occurred because it had erroneously thought certain validation 
documents were outstanding. It corrected that with the insurer and the insurer agreed to 
reinstate cover but wouldnt backdate it. CN said it would pay Ms P £100 for the upset 
caused. It also said if there was any incident whilst the policy was cancelled, it would look to 
cover that itself via its own insurers, and/or liaise with the police if necessary.
Ms P was unhappy with CN. She felt very upset by everything that had happened, and 
believed the cancellation stemmed back to the issue of the claim. Ms P felt CNs 
communication had been poor  not even confirming cancellation by email, but also 
constantly threatening cancellation whilst being vague about what information was felt to still 
be outstanding. She noted shed incurred costs for a missed course and counselling too.
Ms P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. When our Investigator contacted 
CN, it acknowledged its communication had been poor, it said it would pay a further £200 
compensation and confirmed it had since allowed Ms P to cancel the policy without charge 
(normally £115). It said it would also consider paying the cost of the course Ms P missed but 
felt it wasnt liable for her counselling. Ms P forwarded detail of the course to CN.
Our Investigator felt CN had failed Ms P. But that its updated offer was fair and reasonable.
Ms P said it was inconceivable that the policy was cancelled without certain contact being 
made with her  anything could have happened. She explained that the date is incorrect on 
the receipt for the course she missed. Ms P said if CN could just agree to pay for the course 
and her counselling to date, totalling £670, plus an amount for upset, she could draw a line 
under everything and move on. Her complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I totally understand why Ms P became so frustrated with CN and was so disappointed with it. 
Having seen the correspondence which occurred I think CN failed to manage the situation 
properly and it even misled Ms P at times. I think that was only due to a misunderstanding 
on CNs part. But it wasnt unreasonable for Ms P to rely on what CN told her. So, for 
example, when CN very clearly assured her that she did not need to provide anything else 
once the claim issue was resolved, Ms P relied on that. However, that assurance was really 
only limited to the claim issue  the validation documents were, at that time, outstanding and 
still required. So when CN resumed asking for those, that caused upset and confusion for 
Ms P.
It was a further mistake over the validation documents which caused the policy to be 
cancelled though  the cancellation didnt occur on account of the previous claim or that 
insurers actions in respect of that. CN did have concerns about the claim and that did 
generate the need for Ms P to go to extra effort with that insurer to assuage CNs concerns 
and maintain the original premium price. But CNs enquiries in this respect were reasonable. 
And it did accept the claim situation, refunding the additional premium Ms P had paid it in 
connection with that. CNs activity then moved on to refocus on the validation documents it 
had asked Ms P to provide, some of which were still outstanding. And whilst everything was 
then provided  CN didnt find everything and thought some hadnt been provided. Its final 
response explains that some ended up in different areas of the business, meaning it had 
missed them. 
I appreciate that when Ms P found out that her policy had been cancelled several days 
before, she was worried. Not only about what would happen going forward, but also about 
what might have happened had an accident occurred or the police had stopped her whilst 
driving without insurance. Thankfully though, nothing serious had happened during the 
period the policy was cancelled, and it was reinstated about a week later. CN also agreed, in 
its final response, that it would look to assist Ms P with any claim had there been one whilst 
she was without cover. Of course, getting the policy reinstated did not occur without effort 
and worry being expended on Ms Ps part. All of which could have been avoided if CN had 
managed the provision of documents better. 
CN facilitated the reinstatement of cover. But it couldnt make the insurer do that for any 
specific date. CN also explained in its final response letter that the policy had been cancelled 
because it had failed to note detail which had been sent to it. If Ms P wants to show any 
future insurers that this cancellation was not her fault, she can use the final response letter 
to do that. I think the final response, teamed with CNs revised view on its communication 
during this episode, does show that its accepted it failed Ms P.
In total CN has offered £300 compensation and has agreed to consider the cost of the 
missed course. I know Ms P underwent counselling but the main reason for that was the 
accident which occurred before CN began managing Ms Ps insurance needs. Whilst 
I understand that the added stress of the policy cancellation would not have helped, I think CNs view that it isnt responsible for this cost is fair and reasonable. I think it offering to 
agree the cost of the missed course is fair of it. So I wont say anything more about that 
here. I think the total of £300 compensation is also fair and reasonable. It reflects, in my 
view, that Ms P was caused quite a lot of upset by CN over a fairly limited period, including 
knowingly being without insurance for around a week. 
Putting things right
I require CN to:
Consider reimbursing Ms P the cost of the missed course.
Pay Ms P £300 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Carol Nash Insurance Consultants Ltd to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman