The complaint 
B, a limited company complains that HSBC UK Ban k Plc unfairl y closed it s bank accounts,  
which caused financial problems. 
Bs complaint has been brought to our service by its director, C. 
What happened 
B had two business accounts with HSBC  a GBP account and USD currency account. 
In August 2020, HSBC reviewed Bs account and wrote to C asking them to provide 
information.  C provided all the information requested. Following its review, HSBC decided to 
close Bs accounts and wrote to C in January 2021 giving B 60 days notice to make 
alternative banking arrangements. HSBC issued a cheque to B for the closing balances of 
its accounts in April 2021. 
C complained to HSBC and asked for an explanation for why it had closed Bs accounts.  
They believe that HSBCs decision to close Bs accounts was based on political 
discrimination. HSBC wouldnt give C much information about why it had closed the 
accounts. And said it had closed the accounts in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions. Unhappy with this response C brought Bs complaint to our service. 
C said HSBC closed Bs accounts unfairly and the banks decision was based on political 
discrimination or bias, based on information content B hosts as part of its business activities. 
They want HSBC to reopen Bs accounts. 
C has explained that B was badly impacted as a result of HSBC closing its accounts. 
They've said that they were put to a significant amount of trouble to try and secure new bank 
accounts for B, during which time it has encountered issues with suppliers, meeting its tax 
obligations, and paying staff wages. They've also pointed out that the timing of HSBCs 
actions, in the middle of the COVID-19 global pandemic, made an already difficult situation 
much worse, due to the limitations on contact and travel, including hindering its access to 
Government-backed COVID-19 relief programmes. To put things right, along with reopening 
Bs accounts, C on behalf of B wants compensation for the damage and trouble caused by 
HSBC actions. They also want any discriminatory practices within the HSBC banking group 
to be stamped out and stopped. 
C also says they weren't able to cash the cheque for Bs closing balances as the account 
they had managed to open for B, didnt support cheque deposits. They also said that the 
balance of Bs USD account (£10,000 USD) hadnt been returned to B. They explained that 
this had been sent to an overseas bank, but then returned to HSBC, but Bs HSBC account 
had been closed by the time the money had been sent back. And the money appears to 
have been lost in the system. So, they wrote to HSBC in September 2022 asking the bank to 
return both account balances by bank transfer.  
DRN-4026859Since Bs complaint has been with our service, HSBC acknowledged that it had received  
Cs September 2022 letter and said it had released the balance of Bs GBP account to B in 
December 2022. However, this account was also closed, so the payment was rejected.  C 
was reluctant to provide further bank account details to HSBC. So, the investigator arranged 
for a cheque to be issued in Cs name for the balance, which was done in February 2023.  
The investigators looked into Bs complaint. They didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong when it had closed Bs accounts and they explained that the bank didnt have to 
provide an explanation for why it no longer wanted B as a customer. The investigator also 
said that there was no evidence HSBC had carried out any black-listing activities or were 
responsible for the actions of other financial institutions towards B.  
The investigator said that there were delays in HSBC returning Bs GBP account balance. 
So, said the bank should pay 8% interest for loss of use of the funds between the date of  
Cs letter in September 2022 until the date the funds were returned to B in December 2022. 
The investigator didnt recommend any further compensation as C on behalf of B hadnt 
provided any evidence to support what they'd said about the impact being without these 
funds had on B. 
C, on behalf of B disagreed with the investigators findings. They maintained that HSBC 
closed Bs accounts unfairly and, although they couldnt provide any direct evidence, that 
HSBCs decision was based on political discrimination. They also said that t hey are very 
concerned that HSBC has carried out black-listing activities against B which has prevented 
B from being able to open other accounts both in the UK and overseas. They want HSBC to 
provide evidence that this is not the case. They have suggested that even if HSBC hasnt 
officially taken adverse action against B, its possible an individual could be working within 
HSBC independently, considering the fact that B began encountering banking issues around 
the same time as HSBC closed its accounts. 
C also wants to know what information HSBC relies on, when deciding to close a customers 
account, whether this is publicly available information, and if it does so, what measures 
HSBC takes to ensure that this information isnt biased or politically motivated. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
This decision will focus on Bs complaint regarding the closure of its accounts and return of 
the balance in its GBP account. The return of Bs USD balance is being dealt with under a 
separate complaint. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that C and 
HSBC have said before reaching my decision. I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for exampl e, if it contains 
security information, or commerciall y sensitive information. Some of the informatio n HSBC 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I 
havent been able to share a lot of detail with C, on behalf of B, but Id like to reassure them 
that I have considered everything. 
Its clear from what C has told our service and HSBC that they believe B is a victim of 
political discrimination by HSBC. While I can appreciate this is their perspective, it is not the 
role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide whether the business has acted 
unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Im required to consider a number of factors 
in order to decide Bs complaint in accordance with what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of the 
Equality Act 2010 . And after looking at all the evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that HSBC decided to close the account for an improper reason.  
Banks are entitled to decide for themselves wheth er to do busine ss or continue doing 
busine ss with a customer. Each financial institution has it s own criteria and ri sk assessment 
for deciding whether to continue providing account s and providing an account to a customer 
is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. That s because it has 
the commercial freedom to decide who it wants a s a customer. And unles s there s a good 
reason to do so, thi s service wont usuall y say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without prop er reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly. 
At times, following a review, banks sometime s choose to en d their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reason s and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if B decided to stop banking with HSBC, it wouldnt have 
to explain why. I understand C wants HSBC to explain the reason it reviewed and closed Bs 
accounts. But HSBC doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. Its under no obligation to tell C the reasons behind the account review and 
closure, as much as theyd like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not 
giving C this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
I appreciate that it cant be pleasant being told youre no longer wanted as a customer. And I 
acknowledge what C has said about HSBCs motivation behind its actions. But HSBC have 
relied on the terms and conditions of C's accounts when it decided to close them. The terms 
explain that the bank can close the account with notice by providing a customer 60 days 
notice. Having looked at all the information available to me, including HSBCs actions and 
the information its provided Im satisfied that HSBCs decision to close Bs accounts was 
reached legitimately and fairly. Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions and 
circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied HSBC acted in line with them, so, it was 
entitled to close the accounts as it has already done. And I wont be directing HSBC to 
reopen Bs accounts. 
C has made a number of serious allegations against HSBC  that it or an individual within 
the bank is actively engaged in black-listing activities against B, which has led to a number 
of other accounts B had, being closed.  But I have not seen any evidence that this is the 
case. Weve also asked HSBC about this. And it has assured this service that it hasnt 
recorded any markers against B or been party to any blacklisting activity. And I accept that.   
HSBC cant be hel d responsible for the decision s being made b y other financial institutions. 
These financial institutions will have their own criteria, terms, and conditions which the y work 
to and would have to explain to the customer if an y services were being withdrawn. B is 
clearly unhapp y about other accounts it held being closed, so the correct approach would be for C on behalf of B, to approach these financial institutions for more information and raise a 
complaint if they are unhappy. 
HSBC closed Bs accounts in April 2021 and sent a cheque for the closing balance of Bs 
GBP account. But B couldnt pay this into its new account, as it didnt accept cheques. C 
wrote to HSB C in Septembe r 2022 , asking for the fun ds to be relea sed to B via bank 
transfer . HSBC recei ved the letter but didn t release t he balance unti l 29 Decembe r 2022. 
HSBC has acce pted that it shoul d have relea sed Bs money soone r than it did. And it has 
agree d to pay 8% interes t for loss o f use of these funds to B. Im satisfi ed that this is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Bs complaint. In reaching this conclusion Ive 
kept in mind that C hasnt provided any evidence to demonstrate the impact being without 
these funds had on B. S o, HSBC should pay B 8 % simpl e interes t on the balances of Bs 
GBP accoun t from 29 Septembe r 2022 until 29 Decembe r 2022 , for loss o f use of these 
funds.  
In summary, I m satisfi ed that HSBC treated B fairly when it closed its account s. But B 
waited three months for HSBC to return its account balance. I think adding interest to the 
balances of their account fairly compensates B for the loss of use of this money.  
My final decision 
For the reason s Ive explaine d, my final decisi on is that to pu t thing s right HSBC UK Bank 
Plc should: 
Pay B 8% simple interest per year for the sum in Bs account s between 29
September and 29 December 2022
Under the rules of the Financi al Ombudsm an Servi ce, Im requir ed to ask B to accep t or 
rejec t my decisi on befor e 27 Septembe r 2023 .  
HM Revenue & Customs require HSBC Bank UK Plc to withhold income tax from the 
above  mentioned interest. HSBC should give B a certificate showing how much is taken off 
if they ask for one. 
Ombudsman 