DRN-4312658
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy about the charges applied to her accounts by AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB). 
She says the charges caused her financial hardship. 
What happened
Mrs O held an account with AIB with an overdraft facility. The account was closed in 
February 2018 with a nil balance when Mrs O switched providers. 
Mrs O complained to AIB regarding the charges applied to her accounts dating back to when 
they were opened. AIB says that all charges were properly charged and were not excessive. 
AIB confirmed the only account Mrs O was charged for was her current account and that she 
was only charged for when the account wasnt in credit. This being the case Mrs Os current 
account is the only account that is being looked at regarding her complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Os concerns and reached the conclusion AIB hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mrs O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mrs O raised her complaint in March 2021 in relation to bank charges dating back to when 
the account opened. Six years before she raised his complaint is March 2015. And as Mrs O 
wouldve been notified of any charges being applied to her account around the time they 
were being applied I think Mrs O ought to have known enough to decide whether the 
charges AIB applied were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three 
years from when she ought to be reasonably aware she had reason to complain provides 
Mrs O with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at Mrs Os 
overdraft usage and the charges applied from March 2015.
I can still look into Mrs Os complaint about overdraft charges outside this time if Im satisfied 
the failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. But as Mrs O hasnt 
made us aware of any exceptional circumstances that apply this means I am unable to look 
at the charges applied to Mrs Os account before March 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mrs O has complained about the fees applied to her account when she says she was in 
financial difficulty. Just to be clear I havent considered whether the various amounts AIB 
charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs 
of the service provided  as how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision 
and not something we get involved with. 
That said, while Im not looking at AIBs various charging structures per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs O if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs 
Os account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have 
been aware Mrs O was experiencing financial difficulty.  
So Ive considered whether there were instances where AIB didnt treat Mrs O fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that AIB did treat Mrs O unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say 
this because having a detailed look at Mrs Os statements from March 2015 until the account 
closed when Mrs O switched providers in February 2018, I dont think there was anything to 
suggest that AIB ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty 
or that her overdraft wasnt sustainable.
Whilst I accept that Mrs O used her overdraft for the period between March and September 
2015 and had some returned direct debits, following this her financial situation improved and 
she was able to see and maintain a credit balance for some months. And following this - until 
Mrs O closed her account - she once again used her overdraft but regularly saw a credit 
balance and mere use of an overdraft facility isnt necessarily a sign that someone is having 
financial difficulties or enough  I think  to say that AIB ought to have stepped in and 
offered assistance. Indeed, what would be the point in having such a facility if it couldnt be 
used.  
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for AIB to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Os account was being used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that AIB treated Mrs O unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman