DRN-2538845
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that their claim to have a damaged sewage pipe repaired under 
their home insurance policy with QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) was declined as it wasnt covered 
by their policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a problem in their house which led them to having a survey done of their 
sewage pipe. The cause of the problem was located after inserting a camera in the pipe and 
it showed there to be a crack in the pipe. Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their insurance 
policy for repairs to be made to the pipe.
QIC appointed a surveyor to assess the damage to the pipe. QIC said its surveyors report 
advised as the problem is attributable to gradual deterioration and there was no evidence of 
any accidental damage they advised for the claim to be declined. QIC explained how Mr 
and Mrs W policy was set-up to insure them for certain one-off events, such as accidental 
damage.
QIC said the damage to the pipe was not consistent with the policy definition of accidental 
damage or any other defined one-off events in the policy, so they declined Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim. Mr and Mrs W say they did not see a copy of QICs report. They said they couldnt 
understand how the damage to the pipe was caused by wear and tear and they wanted QIC 
to put the pipes right and refund them for the costs they had incurred.
When Mr and Mrs W complained to QIC they explained that their contractor had said the 
break in the sewage pipe is clean and not covered in debris, indicating it is a fairly recent 
crack. QIC reviewed the images from the contractors report, but still declined the claim, as 
they said the report confirms gradual deterioration with displaced joints and cracks 
throughout the drain.
Our investigator reviewed the case and didnt think that QIC had done anything wrong. She 
thought the sewage pipe was likely to be past its lifespan, so didnt think the damage was 
covered by Mr and Mrs Ws policy. They disagreed so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From reading through the case file, I can imagine the stress this issue will have caused Mr 
and Mrs W, as the damaged pipe has led to some unfortunate circumstances. However, I 
must be fair, and I am going to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs W. I think QIC have acted 
reasonably in declining this claim and Ill explain why.
When reviewing a claim, its important to understand that insurance providers will all have 
different wording in their policies which amounts to them offering different levels of cover. 
Policyholders have different choices to make between how much in premiums they pay 
versus how much risk they take on by not having every eventuality covered in their policy. 
Therefore, when we review a claim, its key we understand what is covered by the insurance 
policy. Mr and Mrs Ws policy does provide cover for accidental damage to mains services, 
but it also states some exclusions where the policy doesnt provide cover. The policy says:
We will pay the costs of repairing accidental damage to underground pipes, tanks, 
cables and services that reach from the buildings to the public supply and septic 
tanks, which you are legally responsible for:
This cover does not include:
a. Loss or damage due to wear and tear or gradual deterioration:
b. Loss of damage caused by gradual deterioration which means an installation has 
come to the end of its useful life.
I dont see that Mr and Mrs W could make a claim under any other part of their policy 
for the damage.
QIC have said that a one-off event hasnt caused the damage to the sewage pipe but wear 
and tear or gradual deterioration has which is excluded from Mr and Mrs Ws policy. 
Therefore, I have looked and relied upon the reports and accounts from the available experts 
to see if QIC have assessed this claim fairly.
Our investigator spoke with Mr and Mrs Ws own contractor.  The contractor advised that 
there are several factors that could lead to the cracking and displacement of the pipe. 
However, he said the pipe was in very bad condition and its not something which has 
happened because of a one-off incident, but likely it had happened over a period of time. He 
said the cracks and joint displacement were in multiple places and if this had deteriorated a 
bit longer then the whole pipe would have needed replacing.
QICs appointed surveyor gave a similar summary the problem is attributable to gradual 
deterioration and there was no evidence of any accidental damage.
Both accounts indicate that the damage is long standing in nature and not caused by a one-
off insurable event. Therefore, I think QIC have been reasonable in assessing the available 
evidence and as such they have fairly applied the exclusion clause for accidental damage. In 
summary, I dont think they have done anything wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require QIC Europe Ltd to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman