DRN-4198933
The complaint
Mr  D complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) declined a Section 75 
request. He would like a refund of the goods purchased.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ds frustration. The air monitors he bought provide temperature and 
time readings but dont provide data to a project which was his reason for buying 
them. Nationwide considered both a Chargeback request and a Section 75 claim on 
Mr Ds behalf which is what I would have expected it to do.
As our investigator explained there are strict rules governing Chargeback requests. 
Unfortunately, Mr D raised his dispute outside of the 120-day time limit to do so. On 
this basis Nationwide were correct in not pursuing a Chargeback request for Mr D.
Nationwide then went on to consider a Section 75 claim for which there needs to be a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. Mr D bought the goods via a link on a 
website from another company - which I shall refer to as P - so that he could provide 
data readings for Ps project. The relationship between the merchant and P broke 
down so Mr D cant use his monitors to provide data for Ps project. It seems to me 
that it was P who induced Mr D to purchase the monitors for use in its project not the 
merchant.
From the evidence available, it seems the merchant had business reasons to end the 
relationship with P. I have seen no evidence that the issues between the merchant 
and P were live before Mr D made his purchases. So, I dont think the reason Mr D 
cant use his monitors for the reason he bought them is down to either 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract by the merchant. I think Nationwide acted 
correctly in declining Mr Ds Section 75 request so on this basis I cant reasonably 
ask Nationwide to refund the cost of the goods Mr D purchased
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman