DRN-2194280
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2000 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs C if they couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended the policy to 
Mr and Mrs C, so the key question I need to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs C information that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order to put them in a position where they could make an informed choice about the 
insurance they were buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs C are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as not taking out 
the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide gave them the impression buying the PPI would improve their 
chances of getting the mortgage they wanted. The say the society didnt give them a proper 
choice about buying the policy. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs C have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs C and 
Nationwide when the policy was taken out. Im also mindful that these events took place 
many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide much paperwork from the time the policy was sold, 
which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed. But without anything else to 
support what Mr and Mrs C have told me, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that  
Nationwide didnt make them aware they had a choice about buying the PPI.
Mr and Mrs C say they were entitled to employer sick pay if they couldnt work because of 
sickness or accident, so they dont consider the policy was any use to them.
But as Ive already said, I dont think Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs C on whether or not to 
take the PPI. So it wouldnt have had to check whether their existing arrangements meant 
the policy was suitable for them. 
But even if Nationwide had advised Mr and Mrs C to buy the policy, it doesnt look as though 
it was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of their circumstances. The policy wouldve paid 
out in addition to their employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the 
policy in place wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs C to use their employer sick pay to cover other 
expenses. So I think the policy wouldve been useful to them, despite their existing 
arrangements.
I cant be sure that the policy cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs C before they agreed to 
buy it. But they took out the policy knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Mr and Mrs C satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And their
circumstances dont suggest they would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting 
the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-
existing medical conditions). 
I understand Mr C has undergone a number of medical procedures in recent years, but it 
seems these occurred after the policy was taken out. So they wouldnt have affected his 
ability to make a disability claim on the policy.
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have to. 
And given it provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think 
they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had 
been better informed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman