DRN-3112112
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1997. Mrs S says the PPI was mis-sold. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility 
for the sale. So to keep things simple Ill refer below to AXA, rather than any other business.
background
AXA has told us Mrs S paid less than 50p in total in PPI premiums over the life of the policy.
The card and policy were taken by Mrs S in her sole name, so my decision is addressed to 
her accordingly.
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs Ss representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think AXA made it clear Mrs S didnt have to take the PPI and she agreed to take it. I 
say this because Mrs S hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt clear or that 
she didnt agree to buy the cover. Also, her card application form had a box to tick if 
cover was wanted  so it looks like the PPI was presented as optional.
Mrs S has told us she took the cover because of sales pressure but I havent seen 
enough to make me think she was pressured, bearing in mind that, while I give her 
recollections some weight, they were set out for us around 20 years after the sale and 
Ive nothing else to suggest she was pressured.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and her application form said the PPI 
was cover for the account repayments in case of sickness, accident or involuntary 
unemployment - so it looks to me like she wanted this type of cover. It wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her  for example, she was eligible for it and, from what shes 
told us, she was entitled to no more than statutory pay for sickness or redundancy and 
didnt have anything else, like savings, to help pay her card with if she couldnt work. 
Also nothing about Mrs Ss job or employment wouldve made it hard for her to claim, I 
think it unlikely she wouldve thought she might want to claim in future for the childhood 
health issues shed had many years earlier and she hasnt told us of having any other 
health issues the policy mightve excluded. Overall, I think it likely the cover wasnt too 
different to what Mrs S thought she was buying from the information its likely she was 
given  and, with this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think she wouldve declined 
it had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her - and I think she 
wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mrs S wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, I think it couldve provided 
a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick 
to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of 
making a claim.
Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Im grateful to Mrs and Mr S for their courtesy and the assistance theyve given us during the 
course of our consideration of this matter.
my final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.  
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman