DRN-2285524
The complaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) held him at fault and settled another 
drivers claim against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D confirmed to UKI that he had collided with the rear of another car. But he said no 
damage had been caused. UKI held Mr D at fault and settled the other drivers claim for 
repairs. This will now affect Mr Ds No Claims Discount (NCD) and premium at renewal.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI hadnt 
obtained any evidence to support the other drivers claim, despite Mr Ds objections. So she 
thought UKI hadnt shown that it had settled the claim fairly. She thought UKI should record 
the claim as for notification only and restore Mr Ds NCD. 
UKI replied that it had no reason to doubt that this was a genuine claim. It was settled for a 
low amount and it hadnt questioned this. It said Mr D could buy back the claim if he wished.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D said hed bumped into the rear of another car at very low speed. He said the parties 
had exchanged details, but no damage had been caused to either car. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr D the same as someone else in his position. 
UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr D to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr D has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision.
In Mr Ds case, I can see that he accepted that he had made contact with the rear of the 
other car. But he said no damage had been caused and he sent UKI photographs to show 
this. UKI considered the photos but couldnt see whether damage had been caused or not. 
The claim was low value and Mr D had confirmed that contact had been made. So UKI 
settled the other drivers claim in keeping with an agreement between insurers to minimise 
paperwork. 
Our approach is that we think such good-will agreements are fair, except where the 
consumer has raised concerns about the damage caused. In these cases, our approach is 
that the insurer should ask for further evidence based on the consumers concerns before 
settling. An insurer could ask, for example, for an engineers report on the damage claimed 
for. We think this is fair even with low value claims because of the impact having a fault 
claim recorded will have on the consumer. 
UKI thought the claim would be recorded as fault in any case because Mr D had admitted 
making contact with the other car. But I dont agree. A claim is recorded as fault when the 
insurer hasnt recovered its outlay. Hence UKI made an offer to Mr D, which he declined, to 
buy back the claim and change how it would be recorded.
Mr D had disputed that any damage had been caused. Hed provided photographs of the 
other car taken some metres away. He had evidence of his speed recorded in his black 
box. So I think UKI should have asked the other insurer for further evidence, such as an 
engineers report, to support the claim before deciding to settle it. 
So I cant say that UKI reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence 
before settling it. And so I think it hasnt treated Mr D fairly and reasonably. The result of this 
has been that Mr D has had a fault recorded against him and his NCD affected when this 
may have been avoided
.Putting things right
So, to put things right, I think UKI should record the claim as for notification only on any 
internal and external databases where its been recorded and restore Mr Ds NCD.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to 
carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman