DRN-2222199
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske at the time) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2000 when they took out a loan. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold when Mr and Mrs S took out a loan in 2000. 
Northern Bank says the policy would have cost £29.62 per month and it would have provided 
a monthly benefit of £239.00 if a successful claim was made. Northern Bank says it would 
have covered Mr S only as he was the first named borrower.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that the costs and the 
benefits werent made clear. If they had been clearer then she didnt think Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken out the policy. 
Northern Bank disagreed with this view and asked that the matter be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Northern Bank says that as the policy probably only covered Mr S, Mrs Ss circumstances 
dont need to be taken into account. I dont think thats correct, as both Mr and Mrs S were 
responsible for repaying the loan, so any decisions about the PPI would have affected both 
of them. 
Northern Bank advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the policy over the phone. So that meant it 
needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI was suitable. It also needed to give 
clear enough information so that Mr and Mrs S could decide for themselves whether or not 
they wanted the policy. 
I cant say what Mr and Mrs S were told when they applied for the loan and the PPI. But 
Northern Bank says a structured interview would have been carried out subject to the 
applicable guidelines in 2000 and it says Mr and Mrs S would have been given all the 
relevant information. It also says its adviser would have known the policy cost £0.95 for each 
£5 of cover and would have told Mr and Mrs S this at the time. Northern Bank cant provide 
any information about how it carried out these telephone sales in 2000, so theres no 
suggested script that the adviser would have used.
Without some evidence of how the phone call was conducted, I dont think Northern Bank 
can show me that Mr and Mrs S would have understood the cost and benefits of the PPI, 
during the call, which is when they applied for the loan and bought the PPI.
Northern Bank also cant provide the actual application form Mr and Mrs S completed at the 
time. But it has provided some paperwork which includes a sample loan illustration as well 
as an example of a credit agreement. 
The loan illustrations are from 2000 onwards. The credit agreement is from an earlier date 
but Northern Bank confirm they are consistent in format and content to those that would 
have been provided to and signed by Mr and Mrs S. I have carefully looked at these forms. 
The credit agreement doesnt mention the cost of the PPI, and  because this was a 
telephone sale  would have been sent out after the call. 
The loan illustration provided sets out a quotation for the loan. Again its likely this was sent 
to Mr and Mrs S after theyd agreed to buy the PPI. At the foot of the second page there is a 
section headed Payment Protection Plan. The cost is set out as a cost per £5 or £100 
repayment and the monthly amount but it doesnt set out the benefit it would give for the 
premium Mr and Mrs S would have to pay. Overall I dont think the costs are clear, especially 
as the cost and benefits dont match with the amount Northern Bank says Mr and Mrs S 
paid. I say that because Northern Bank says Mr and Mrs S would have paid £0.95 per £5 
benefit  but also that they paid £29.62 for the PPI. Based on what Northern Banks says Mr 
and Mrs S paid, a premium of £29.62 should have provided a benefit of £155.89. That 
doesnt match the amount of the loan repayment which was £239, so it appears there was a 
substantial shortfall. 
The information about PPI payments appears at the end of the loan quotation so I dont think 
Mr and Mrs S would have been focussed on the cost of the PPI. And I dont think they would 
have understood they would need to keep paying the premiums if they had to make a claim. 
The credit agreement sets out the cost of the loan but theres nothing on the form about the 
cost and the benefit of the PPI. Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, I dont 
think Mr and Mrs S would have thought it was worthwhile paying for the cost of the policy for 
the benefit it gave. So I dont think it was suitable for them. 
Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs S were given enough clear information to decide whether 
they wanted the PPI. That means I think they lost out financially because of what Northern 
Bank did wrong and I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Northern Bank Limited should put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. 
Northern Bank Limited should: 
 Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each month for the PPI 
 Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year . 
 If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Northern Bank Limited can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Northern Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Northern Bank Limited must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Northern Bank Limited should pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman