DRN-2862597
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Yorkshire Building Society didnt tell it that it doesnt 
lend to family trusts. Because of this policy it had to repay two secured loans and incurred 
early repayment charges (ERCs). T is represented by its director, who Ill call Mr C. Mr C 
asks for more of the ERCs to be refunded and compensation for the costs of refinancing.
What happened
T took out two secured loans with YBS in 2017. The terms of each loan said an ERC was 
due if it was repaid within four years. 
In 2019 T told YBS it intended to sell some properties and repay part of one of the loans. 
YBS agreed. YBS then asked for the loans to be repaid in full. The loans were repaid within 
the period that the ERC applied, and YBS applied the ERCs.
In response to Ts complaint, YBS said while the loan terms said it was entitled to ask for the 
loans to be repaid in full, doing so wasnt proportionate. YBS said it should have explored 
other options with T instead of requesting a full redemption. It said it was fair to apply an 
ERC for the amount that T had chosen to repay. YBS offered to refund the ERC on the 
remainder of the amount repaid and £500 compensation. 
Our investigator said the offer to refund part of the ERC was fair. 
Mr C says YBS was unfair. He says its policy not to lend to family trusts is unfair, especially 
as it didnt tell him about this policy. He says it should refund more of the ERC. Mr C said 
YBS hadnt calculated the ERC properly and should refund an additional £7,500. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should say that YBS is entitled to make a commercial decision about its lending 
policies. Its entitled to change lending policies from time to time, and didnt have to tell T 
when it did so. YBS didnt have to give T a copy of its lending policy, which is commercially 
sensitive.
The terms of the loans taken out by T say its shares cant be transferred without YBSs prior 
consent. If there was a plan to transfer Ts shares into a family trust when T took out the 
mortgages, Id have expected Ts directors to raise this with YBS at the time.
Both of the loans taken out by T included an ERC of 3%. This ERC applied if the loan was 
repaid in full or to any overpayment (a payment in excess of the monthly payment). 
T repaid £700,000 in August 2019. It paid an ERC of £21,000. This was 3% of the amount 
repaid, in accordance with the loan terms.
Mr C says YBS should refund part of the ERC paid in August 2019. He says that T was 
required by YBS to repay more of the loan at that time than he considers fair. 
Mr C says T sold three properties in August 2019. These were valued when the mortgage 
was taken out at £450,000. The value of the security properties for that loan totalled 
£865,000. So I think what Mr C is saying is that T shouldnt have been required to repay 
£700,000 of the loan at that time, and so YBS should refund some of the £21,000 ERC it 
applied.
The loan terms say that if T wants to make a repayment to release part of the security 
properties YBS has the right to call for repayment of such capital sum as the society may 
determine. 
YBS said the properties being sold had higher rents than the ones retained. It said while T 
would meet loan to value covenants after the sale and part repayment, it didnt meet 
repayment cover covenants. Mr C told YBS that T had agreed to sell the properties for 
£880,000, and had costs of about £50,000. Mr C told YBS he was in the process of 
arranging finance to repay the remaining loan. On this basis, YBS agreed to part repayment 
of £700,000 to allow the sale to go ahead. 
YBS provided copies of emails exchanged with Mr C before the sale and part repayment to 
support what it said. It said it discussed the £700,000 part repayment with Mr C and didnt 
receive any objections from him or Ts solicitors. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think YBS 
made an error or acted unfairly when it said it would accept £700,000 in part repayment. It 
follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require YBS to refund all or part of the 
ERC paid in August 2019.
When T took out the loans all of its shares were owned by one of its directors. While 
considering the part redemption YBS found out that shares in T had been transferred without 
its consent: this was in breach of the loan agreement. It also found out that T was now 
owned by a family trust which was outside its lending policy.
YBS said while it was entitled to ask for repayment in full it didnt act fairly when it did so. It 
said it should have explored with T whether there were other options. It offered to refund the 
ERC paid when T repaid the loans in March 2020 (about £7,300) with 8% interest, refund 
premiums paid between 31 March and 23 June 2020, and pay £500 for inconvenience. I 
must take into account here that Mr C had told YBS he was in the process of arranging 
finance to repay the remaining loan. And T was in breach of the loan terms. Overall, I think 
the offer made by YBS is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
YBS says it hasnt paid the redress to T as it hadnt accepted its offer. It said, if T accepts my 
decision, it will apply interest to the ERC refund from March 2020 to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My decision is that Yorkshire Building Society should pay the redress it offered, that is:
Refund the ERC paid by T when it repaid the loans in March 2020 with 8% simple 
interest from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
Refund premiums paid between 31 March and 23 June 2020.
Pay £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman