DRN-1503483
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the high level of commission and profit share that Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited received from selling a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
to her in 1998.
What happened
Shop Direct says it refunded the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premiums Mrs H paid. 
Mrs H is unhappy because Shop Direct said the refund covered a period starting in 2007, 
when she had the PPI for a long time before this. 
Our adjudicator thought that Shop Direct's settlement of the claim was fair. Mrs H remained 
unhappy, so I've been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit share 
Shop Direct got due to the PPI. I havent considered how the policy was sold because we 
looked at a complaint about that under a separate reference and found it had not been 
bought to us in time. So, Ive only looked at whether the offer Shop Direct has made is fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didn't tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Shop Direct said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra Mrs H paid each month 
because the commission and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mrs H for the time she was out of pocket. 
Mrs H has said she should receive more back. But Shop Direct has done what the rules it 
must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about Mrs Hs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Shop Direct  should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont think there is. I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont be telling Shop Direct to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons above I think Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has correctly worked 
out what it needs to pay Mrs H.
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited should update and pay its offer to Mrs H if it hasn't 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman