DRN-3043082
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around July 2015, Mrs B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mrs B decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In December 2016 the CMC made a claim on Mrs Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £9,487 to 
mislead Mrs B  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so 
the true cost was £18,547.20;
Mrs B was promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £952.28 and this didnt take into 
account that after making her loan repayments Mrs B had an actual annual deficit of 
£670.27;
the credit agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments alone;
the system would not cost her a penny;
she would make savings on her electricity bills; and
she was pressured into signing the agreement.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mrs B and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided; a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated December
2013, copies of marketing material used by P, a job advert for P, the loan agreement with 
Shawbrook and some of Mrs Bs electricity bills.
In its final response letter Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to 
Mrs B or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it said:
the contract P had provided Mrs B set out the expected total returns from the system 
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved;
the FIT statements show that the system is performing slightly better than the 
estimates provided; 
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
the system wouldnt increase Mrs Bs electricity consumption, and any increase in 
her electricity bills would be due to a change in lifestyle;
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Mrs B to it.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mrs 
B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
the quotation is unsigned and was not seen by Mrs B; 
the self-consumption used when predicting the benefits should be at a rate of 37% 
and P exaggerated the savings by using a higher rate; 
the repayments section doesnt make it clear that Mrs B would need to make a 
contribution each month; 
the table on page 13 doesnt compare the benefits to the loan repayments; 
the graph on page 7 is hard to understand; 
the sales representative told Mrs B numerous times that the system would be self-
funding; 
the quotation was generated post-purchase and Mrs B did not have the relevant 
expertise to understand its contents; and
an OWL device is not guaranteed to save any money and they dont believe its 
reasonable to use this in the benefit calculation.
It also suggested that we speak to Mrs B for her recollections. When our investigator spoke
to her, she told us:
she was told that the system would be self-funding; 
she had been looking around to buy panels and chose P due to the finance options 
offered; 
she was shown a diagram telling her what the benefits would be which showed shed 
be making a profit; 
she purchased the system as she thought shed be making enough the pay the 
monthly loan payment and more; and
the system would be inspected every three years, but this hasnt happened.
As agreement couldnt be reached between Shawbrook and Mrs B, the case has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the
debtor.
As Mrs B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. I am also satisfied that it applies and that the required 
debtor/creditor/supplier relationship is in place. This means that Mrs B could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it has the effect in this particular arrangement 
that any antecedent negotiations between Mrs B and P, as the supplier, were deemed to 
have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters
relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Mrs Bs recollection of the sale
Ive listened to the call that Mrs B had with our investigator and considered this along with 
the complaint the CMC submitted to Shawbrook. Ive noted that Mrs Bs recollections do 
differ in some respects to the complaint letter submitted by the CMC. As an example, the CMC refers to the quote not being seen by Mrs B whereas she remembers being shown the 
graphs and tables in the quote.
Having said that, there are some similarities between the complaint submitted by the CMC
and Mrs Bs recollection of the sale, for example that the system would be self-funding.
Mrs B has decided to be represented, by a CMC, in her complaint to Shawbrook. The 
complaint letter submitted to Shawbrook was seven pages and set out in great
detail the reasons for the section 75 claim and the alleged representations that were made
that induced Mrs B to enter into the contract.
The complaint letter is dated December 2016, approximately 17 months after the date of 
sale, and I would expect this to reflect Mrs Bs recollection of what happened at the time the 
system was sold.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs B has spoken to our investigator and provided additional information 
that wasnt included in the initial complaint made on her behalf, there is a significant time 
difference between the date the complaint was made and the conversation with our 
investigator. I think this may explain the inconsistencies Ive highlighted above. I
think that its reasonable to expect the CMCs letter to accurately reflect what Mrs B says she 
was told and her version of events at the time of sale, especially as the CMC has put the 
alleged representations in quotation marks. So, in so far as there are any discrepancies that 
have a material impact on my decision, Ive placed more weight on the submissions made in 
the original letter of complaint. Having said that, Im satisfied that Mrs B was told that the
system would be self-financing over the term of the loan.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mrs Bs solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Bs recollection of the sale.
In response to the investigators assessment, the CMC told us that Mrs B didnt receive the 
quote. Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This 
detailed that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly 
after the initial meeting via email. Based on our experience of what we have seen with 
similar complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this 
document to Mrs B and I have no reason to doubt thats what happened in this complaint. I 
also note that Mrs B has signed the quotation, so I think its clear shes seen the contents of 
the document. 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT paymentsMrs B has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or
self-funded by her FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and
considered whether this supports what she says she was told as I consider the quote was
central to the sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs B could expect to receive by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mrs B could expect to receive 
a total income in year one of £540.76 from her FIT.
Page nine of the quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs B could expect from her 
system as well as any savings she would make from taking out any optional extras including, 
a voltage optimiser. The expected year one electricity savings is £411.52 and the combined 
income and savings in year one is shown as £1,118.95. This is shown in a table titled 
Putting it all together.
Page 10 has a section titled Repayments. This has three tables set out over 60 months, 
120 months and 180 months. The table for 180 months is highlighted in orange as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs B entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 
180 monthly payments of £100.45 due and compares the overall expected grand total from 
the system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare her FIT income to her monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
her monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that her monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mrs B has said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,487. She has said that 
this was done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £18,547.20.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mrs B makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£9,487. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £9,487 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £18,547.20.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,487, it would cost Mrs 
B more than this as she had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs B that the system would not cost her a penny, and
that she could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £952.28.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mrs B was expected to have made a 
loss of £7.20 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £1.72 a 
month. It wouldnt be until the third year that the expected benefits would exceed her 
monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been until around year 
four that she would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses and the system 
would be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Mrs B was told that the system would not cost her a penny. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between her expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mrs B was told that shed receive a year one benefit of £1,118.95 as this 
was the expected combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on her 
energy bills. Having said that, taking into account the available evidence, Im not persuaded 
that Mrs B was led to believe that shed receive this sum in her hand. Im satisfied that the 
quote makes it clear that shed have to make loan repayments and overall there would be a 
deficit.
I also accept that Mrs B was told by P that the system would pay for itself over the term of
the loan. Page 12 of the quote has a table headed Estimated performance over 20 years:
This shows that by year 12 the overall benefits that Mrs B could expect to receive would 
have exceeded the total amount payable under her loan agreement. This table also sets out
the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made her aware that performance of the
system would deteriorate over its lifetime. The quote document also refers to any warranty
associated with the system or the inverter.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs B that the system would pay for itself by
year 12, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the
contract between P and Mrs B. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce
3,524 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments
and savings in her energy bills, that Mrs B could expect to receive.
Ive calculated that the system should generate 9.65 kWh of energy each day. Mrs B has 
provided her FIT statements which show that between September 2015 and September 
2016 the system generated 3,660 kWh which equates to 9.68 kWh a day. This is more than 
the estimates provided at the point of sale.
So, based on this, I would expect Mrs B to be close to recouping any initial losses from the 
system and for it to be paying for itself. Mrs B has said that this isnt the case so Ive gone on 
to consider whether P have overstated the potential income and savings Mrs B could expect 
to receive by, for example using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote P provided to Mrs B was personalised to her specific circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits she could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system that Mrs 
B would use rather than buying it from her energy provider, therefore leading to savings on 
her energy bills and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the expected annual 
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were based
on the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
The quote sets out that Mrs B was expected to use, or self-consume, 75% of the kWh 
generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual saving of 
£411.52. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS data Ive
mentioned above.
The CMC responded to the investigators view and explained that they believed a 37% self-
consumption rate would be fair. This is based on a report completed by a solar expert 
several years after Mrs Bs system was sold.
Shawbrook have provided detailed information about Ps sale process in relation to 
calculating the amount of energy a consumer would self-consume from the system. They 
explained that they would ask a consumer what their current electricity consumption and 
cost was and then use this information to estimate the potential savings.
At the point of sale, it seems that Mrs B told P that her current electricity spend was £100 
(£1,200 per year) and P used this to calculate the potential savings of the system. This 
appears to be consistent with the bills provided at the point of sale which show a combined 
gas and electric direct debit of £171.
However, it looks like Mrs B used around 4,500 kWh of electricity in the year pre installation 
of the system which equates to around £570 per year. Her direct debit amount appears to 
have been too high and her energy provider subsequently reduced the monthly payment 
amount.
I think Ps method for calculating the self-consumption rate is reasonable and personalised 
to Mrs Bs personal circumstances, based on the information she provided at the time of the 
sale. I dont think its unreasonable for them to ask their consumer what their current electricity spend is and then rely on this information to calculate the electricity savings the 
system would generate.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy that Mrs B was expected to self-consume were 
both reasonable assumptions for P to have made.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mrs B could expect to receive 
from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line with the 
available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 8.38% 
and for RPI was 3.22%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 2015 to 
2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the estimates 
provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have increased by 3.7% 
and RPI by 2.56%. Both figures are lower than the assumptions used by P and in my view 
explain why she isnt receiving the financial returns from the system that she may have 
expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2005 to 2014. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the 
view that this goes some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding by year 
12 and certainly by the end of the loan term. Although I appreciate Mrs B will be 
disappointed by the financial returns from her system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P 
using unreasonable assumptions when she entered into the contract for the system.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had provided
hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P along
with the findings of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel
hearing from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mrs B, or that it relates to the time her panels were sold. Whilst it does 
refer to the system paying for itself and being self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place as 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mrs Bs personalised quote. 
And, as I have explained above, at the time Mrs B entered into the contract with P Im 
satisfied that her system would have been self-funding and would pay for itself by year 12 
of the loan.The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, over a year before Mrs 
B entered into her contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from Trading 
Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve Ps sales 
process. This work included Trading Standards helping P to enhance their business 
paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. This has 
ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Mrs B entering into her contract and I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances of this case, along with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Mrs B raised some concerns about Ps sales process, said that he was pressurised into 
entering the contract and fixed sum loan agreement.
Based on the available evidence that has been provided Im of the view that the sales 
process wasnt unreasonably pressured and taking account of the overall cost of the system 
alongside the length of the loan term, I dont think the length of the meeting with P at
Mrs Bs home was unreasonable.
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that the quotation is unsigned and was 
not seen by Mrs B. As explained above, Im satisfied that the quote was likely emailed to Mrs 
B and she saw a copy at the point of sale. Mrs B confirmed this in her conversation with the 
investigator.
The CMC has also explained that they believe the quotation is generated post-purchase and 
was not provided to Mrs B at the point of sale. I note that the quotation is signed by Mrs B 
and dated 1 July 2015. I have seen no evidence to support the fact that the quotation is 
generated post purchase. I also note that Mrs B signed some of the pages of the quotation 
which I think demonstrates that it was generated and seen by her at the point of sale.
The CMC has also explained that they believe that P exaggerated the electricity savings that 
Mrs B could expect to receive from the system. P used a 75% self-consumption rate 
whereas the CMC thinks a fair rate would be 37%.  I have explained my thoughts on Ps 
process for calculating this earlier on in my decision. But its also worth mentioning that the 
system has reduced Mrs Bs electricity bills by 62% therefore I dont think using a standard 
rate of 37% is reasonable when the evidence suggests otherwise. 
Mrs Bs later recollections
As previously explained, Mrs B has provided additional information that wasnt included in 
the initial complaint made on her behalf and there is a significant time difference between the 
date the complaint was made and her later recollections. And as I think that its reasonable 
to expect the CMCs letter to accurately reflect what Mrs B says she was told and her 
version of events at the time of sale, Ive placed more weight on the submissions made in 
the original letter of complaint.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs B to
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this
complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman