DRN-3277647
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he has received from Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd. In 
particular he says it:
-  incorrectly told him that fund valuations it had provided were guaranteed;
-  delayed providing the documentation he had requested in order to take his pension 
benefits for one pension pot and to transfer a second pension pot; and
- may have made errors in the calculation of the fund value of one of his pension pots 
as he believes that a family member, who was also invested in the same with profits 
fund, did not suffer a reduction in their fund value.
Mr P says he has lost out financially because Wesleyan has refused to honour the fund 
values it provided in March 2020.
Mr P is represented in this matter.
What happened
Mr P held two pension plans with Wesleyan. Both pension plans were invested in with profits 
funds, one of the plans had a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) attached. The plan with a GAR 
attached was invested in a unitised with profits fund. The other (non-GAR) plan was invested 
in a traditional with profits fund.
I understand that in 2019 and early 2020, Mr P had been in touch with Wesleyan requesting 
up-to-date valuations for his pension plans as he was considering taking benefits from the 
plans. 
In mid-March 2020, Mr P told Wesleyan he wanted to take his benefits. The representative 
Mr P spoke to said they would arrange for pension packs to be issued to him. On 18 March 
2020, the representative gave Mr P a current valuation for his non-GAR plan of around 
£120,000, but said he was still waiting for a current valuation for the other plan. It is not in 
dispute that the representative told Mr P that the valuation was guaranteed once the 
pension packs had been ordered and that he should expect to receive the pension packs 
within the next week or so.
The pension packs did not arrive on time and I understand that Mr P chased Wesleyan 
several times. 
Mr P says he received the packs on 6 April 2020. However, it appears the correct 
information had not been sent and the current valuation given in the pack for the non-GAR 
plan was over £10,000 less than the amount Mr P had been told was guaranteed. Mr P 
queried this with Wesleyan. It then came to light that it had not sent Mr P options packs so 
he did not have the correct forms to give Wesleyan his instructions. Wesleyans 
representative apologised for its failure to send the correct forms and said that the valuations 
in the packs Mr P had received werent correct and would be re-checked.
The representative then contacted Mr P again to say that the valuations he had been given 
were not guaranteed. Mr P decided to take his pension benefits from the pension plan with 
a GAR attached to it and he transferred his other pension pot to another provider.
Mr P was not satisfied with the service he had received from Wesleyan and complained to it 
about the delays and confusion it had caused. He also complained about the drop in the 
value of his pension plans between the valuations he was given in mid-March 2020 and the 
amount he actually received.
Wesleyan upheld Mr Ps complaint. It accepted that its representative had wrongly told Mr P 
that the value of his pension plans was guaranteed from the date the pension packs were 
ordered. It also accepted that it had provided poor service and caused unnecessary delays. 
In order to put matters right it offered to pay Mr P £250 for the trouble and upset its poor 
service had caused. It also said it would carry out a redress calculation to see if Mr P had 
lost out financially as a result of the delays it had caused. 
It noted that the value of Mr Ps pension pots had reduced between the date he requested 
the necessary forms to take his pension benefits and the date he was able to go ahead. It 
explained that the value of Mr Ps pension plans had fallen as the terminal bonuses had 
been reduced.
It said it would honour the fund values Mr P would have received, if it had not caused any 
delays. It said it felt 1 April 2020 was the earliest date Mr Ps instructions would have been 
processed if he had received the correct documentation on time, in order to complete his 
retirement process. 
Having carried out the redress calculation Wesleyan contacted Mr P to say that its workings 
showed he was, in fact, £299.17 better off than he would have been if it had not delayed the 
process and it had been in a position to act on Mr Ps instructions on 1 April 2020. 
Mr P did not accept Wesleyans response and referred the matter to this service. He said he 
felt Wesleyan should honour the valuation he was given on18 March 2020, as it had told him 
this figure was guaranteed. He also said that a family member who was also invested in the 
same with profits fund as his GAR pension pot had not had the value of their pension pot 
reduced by the same percentage.
Having carefully considered Mr Ps complaint our investigator said he felt the offer Wesleyan 
had made to put matters right was fair and reasonable and he didnt think it needed to do 
any more.
He noted that Wesleyan accepted that its representative had wrongly told Mr P that the 
valuations he was given in mid-March 2020 were guaranteed. But he said he didnt think it 
would be fair to require Wesleyan to honour these valuations as they were not guaranteed, 
and its representative had made a genuine mistake on this point.
He said that the calculations Wesleyan had carried out to check whether Mr P had lost out 
as a result of the delays it had caused showed that Mr P was actually around £300 better off. 
As this was the case, he said he thought the £250 it had offered to pay Mr P for the poor 
service he had received was fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P did not accept our investigators view. His representative said, in summary:
- he wanted to know when the terminal (final) bonus on the traditional with profits funds 
Mr P was invested in was confirmed. He said he had received conflicting information as to whether it was confirmed on 1 or 2 April 2020. He explained that he was 
concerned that Wesleyan had used a date of 1 April 2020 in its redress calculation to 
coincide with a reduction in the terminal bonus; and
- the investigator had not addressed the concerns he had raised regarding the value of 
a holding a family member also had in the same with profits fund. He said it appeared 
that the value of the family members holding had not reduced by the same 
percentage and he wanted Wesleyan to explain this discrepancy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that the service Mr P received from Wesleyan in March and April 2020 
was below the standard he could reasonably have expected. Its representative gave Mr P 
incorrect information about whether his fund values were guaranteed. It also delayed 
providing Mr P with the necessary forms to take his pension benefits. These errors caused 
Mr P worry and inconvenience.
What is in dispute is whether the redress Wesleyan has offered is sufficient in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, where a business makes a genuine error, this service would 
usually expect the business to put the customer back in the position they would have been in 
but for the error, or errors. As this is the case, I cant reasonably require Wesleyan to honour 
the valuation it gave Mr P in mid-March 2020 as this valuation wasnt guaranteed and there 
was no option to guarantee a valuation by requesting a pension options pack.
But I do agree that Mr P should be compensated for the loss of expectation he suffered 
when Wesleyan subsequently told him that the valuations it had provided werent 
guaranteed. 
Likewise, I dont think that Mr P should lose out financially as a result of the delays Wesleyan 
caused. In order to determine whether Mr P had lost out financially, Wesleyan carried out a 
redress calculation to see if Mr Ps pension pots had fallen in value during the period it 
delayed sending him the forms he needed to take his pension benefits.
I have carefully considered whether it was reasonable for it to use the date of 1 April 2020 
for its redress calculations. This date assumes that Wesleyan would have promptly issued 
the necessary forms when they were requested on 18 March 2020, and that Mr P would also 
have completed and returned them promptly. I think ten working days for the forms to have 
been issued and returned is reasonable and I dont think I can safely say the process would 
have happened any faster, even if everything had gone smoothly.
Mr Ps representative has queried when the lower final bonus rate was applied for the 
traditional with profits fund. He has said he thinks the date of 1 April 2020, was chosen for 
the redress calculation so that the calculation was based on a lower final bonus for Mr Ps 
traditional with profits fund holding. 
Wesleyan has confirmed to this service that the lower final bonus for the traditional with 
profits fund was applied from 2 April 2020. As Wesleyan has confirmed that the final bonus 
rate was changed from 2 April 2020, I dont think Mr P has been disadvantaged by Wesleyan 
using 1 April 2020 as the date for its redress calculation. This lower final bonus rate for his traditional with profits holding was reflected in the redress 
calculations Wesleyan provided to Mr P in August 2020. It showed that Mr P would have 
received £109,691.37 on 1 April 2020, but the value he actually received for this plan was 
£108,900.16. As Mr P is aware this fall in value was offset by the increase in his unitised with 
profits fund from £355,447.87 to £356,538.25 giving an overall increase in the value of his 
pension pots of £299.17, over the period of the delay caused by Wesleyan.
At the time Mr P took his benefits from the plans, stock markets around the world had fallen 
significantly and this would have been reflected in the terminal bonus that was applied to 
Mr Ps funds.
As Mr P may be aware, final bonuses are not guaranteed and the final bonus received will 
not necessarily be the same amount as that show in previous statements or valuations. A 
business determines whether to add a final bonus by comparing the underlying value of the 
plan with the value of guaranteed benefits at the time the plan matures, or benefits are 
taken. In simple terms, if the underlying value of the plan is more than the value of the 
guaranteed benefits a final bonus is added. 
In the complaint he referred to this service Mr Ps representative also said that he thought 
Wesleyan may have made errors in its calculation of the value of his unitised with profits 
pension pot. He said calculations he had carried out indicated that a family member who was 
also invested in the same with-profits fund did not suffer the same percentage reduction in 
their holding. As our investigator explained, if Mr P thinks Wesleyan has not applied the 
same bonus rates to all investors in the same fund, at the same time, he will need to refer 
this matter to Wesleyan in the first instance and give it the opportunity to respond to his 
concerns. 
That said, if Mr Ps family member did not take the benefits from their pension plan at the 
same time as Mr P, then the valuation Mr P has referred to for his family member may not 
reflect the final bonus they would have received if they had taken their benefits at the same 
time as Mr P. 
Having carefully considered this matter, I think the £250 Wesleyan has offered to pay Mr P 
for the poor service it provided and for the loss of expectation he experienced is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In reaching this view, I have taken into account that it notified Mr P as soon as it came to 
light that it had given him incorrect information about whether his fund value was 
guaranteed. It also carried out a redress calculation to ensure that Mr P had not lost out 
financially as a result of the delays it caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I think the offer Wesleyan has 
made to resolve this complaint is fair and I dont think it needs to do any more to put matters 
right.
I simply leave it to Mr P to decide if he now wishes to accept Wesleyans offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Suzannah StuartOmbudsman