DRN-3778274
The complaint
Miss C and Mr S complain that AmTrust Europe (AmTrust) has treated them unfairly in 
relation to their buildings warranty.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In June 2019 Miss C and Mr S purchased a new build property which included an 
AmTrust warranty.
Miss C and Mr S raised concerns about damage to the property and AmTrust 
considered this under its conciliation scheme producing a technical report in August 
2020 outlining the issues it identified as defects and those which required further 
investigation. In August 2021 a second technical report was produced.
Miss C and Mr S raised concerns about a range of issues, including specific defects, 
data protection, policy exclusions, claims handling amongst others. The complaint 
was brought to this Service and a final decision was issued.
A further complaint was made about events and AmTrusts claims handling that 
followed. AmTrust answered this complaint in December 2021. This was also brought 
to this Service and a final decision has been issued separately. 
In January 2022, Miss C and Mr S raised another complaint about outstanding 
defects. They listed a range of items highlighted in the technical reports that they say 
were identified as issues and not resolved by the propertys developer and that 
AmTrust shouldve stepped in in line with the warranty. They asked AmTrust for 
£3,291 to account for lost wages, administration and distress and inconvenience.
Our Investigator looked into things. She said this Service could only consider defects 
which were already accepted by AmTrust. And for the issues that were accepted as 
defects, AmTrust hadnt stepped in when the developer failed to act and the claim did 
not progress. She directed AmTrust to pay £650 compensation, and either cash 
settle for all accepted defects or arrange for the remaining repairs to be carried out. 
And this should be done within one month of acceptance by both parties.
AmTrust responded to say it agreed. But Miss C and Mr S didnt, in summary:
oCompensation should be increased taking into account the number of defects 
present and unresolved, as well as the time, efforts and stress AmTrust had 
caused them, including extensive back and forth correspondence. The £650 
would also not act as a deterrent for AmTrust, nor compensate them for the 
quality of the property theyve had to live in.
oThey had missed many appointments due to issues with the developer, and 
these matters wouldve been avoided if AmTrust had stepped in earlier. And 
administration costs theyve incurred in bringing their complaint.
oThey request a written apology from AmTrust that recognises its failings. And 
for this Service to recognise AmTrusts poor complaint handling.
oMiss C and Mr S raised concerns about the information provided to them after 
the warranty was taken out. This matter will be considered separately by this 
Service in a complaint theyve raised about the mis-selling of the warranty.
Our Investigator considered these points but didnt change her mind. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made 
by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont 
consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
The crux of this complaint is the impact of AmTrusts inaction on Miss C and Mr S, 
and a way forward with the outstanding defects that are still unresolved.
Following our Investigators view, AmTrust has accepted to either cash settle the 
remaining identified defects or arrange for necessary repairs/works for such defects 
within a month of Miss C and Mr Ss acceptance. As our Investigator has outlined, 
any such settlement or repairs will need to allow for full effective and lasting repairs, 
and factor in any temporary works or repairs that may have already taken place. I 
think this is a reasonable solution and will hopefully bring this matter to a close for 
Miss C and Mr S, so I will direct it to do this.
So, Ill turn to compensation. In this complaint I want to be clear Im just considering 
the issues that are outstanding, and that Im not compensating for any matters that 
have been previously decided with this Service.
Miss C and Mr S have no doubt had a difficult time throughout this claim. And theyve 
provided a detailed account of the impact on their wellbeing, and time. 
AmTrust has now accepted it shouldve intervened earlier than it did on the defects in 
question. So, its clear to me that it is responsible for many delays in relation to these 
specific defects. And in reaching my decision, Ive taken into account all of the factors 
Miss C and Mr S have described about the extensive time spent dealing with this 
claim, and the impact it has had on their lives.
Miss C and Mr S have argued the actions, or inaction, of the developer across this 
time in relation to these matters should be directly attributable to AmTrust. And while 
I hold it responsible for delays in the claims progression, I dont think it follows that it 
should be held entirely responsible for each and every of the missed appointments or 
frustrations caused by the developer or developers agents that Miss C and Mr S 
have detailed. I say this as the developer is a separate entity to AmTrust.
I also want to be clear any compensatory award directed by this Service is not 
intended to act as a deterrent to a firm  it is intended to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience in the particular circumstances.
Taking everything into account - Im satisfied an award of £650 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and recognises the delays 
caused by AmTrust not intervening earlier than it has. My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. AmTrust Europe Limited must:
Pay Miss C and Mr S £650 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused them in relation to the outstanding defects under this complaint. 
For the remaining defects in question under this complaint, AmTrust must either cash 
settle these matters in line with the policy terms, or arrange for the works to be 
carried out promptly. And within a month of receiving Miss C and Mr Ss acceptance 
of this decision, AmTrust must be taking forward either of the above options.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman