DRN-3636688
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Calpe Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy and that his policy was cancelled. 
What happened
Another driver said Mr N had damaged his car. Calpe sent an independent assessor to 
examine Mr Ns car. Mr N said he was unable to respond to Calpes requests for information 
due to illness and issues with his post. He said hed told Calpe that he had changed his 
address temporarily. Calpe then settled the other drivers claim. Mr N said his policy was 
then cancelled and he had to pay his outstanding premium. Mr N said Calpe then told him 
the claim had been changed from damage to personal injury. Mr N wanted the decision 
about the claim changed, a refund of his premium and the cancellation record removed. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Calpe 
was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to settle the claim as it thought best as it 
didnt think it could defend the matter in court. She thought it had tried to keep in contact with 
Mr N by email and post. And she thought the cancellation of the policy should be taken up 
with Mr Ns broker, so she couldnt consider that. 
Mr N replied that he disagreed and wanted to submit further evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr N is adamant that he was a victim of a fraudulent claim. I was sorry to hear 
that he has been unwell. Mr N said that he would submit further evidence for me to consider. 
But the response date has passed, and Mr N hasnt provided anything further. So I will make 
my decision based on what has been provided so far.
Calpe said it was notified by another driver that Mr N had collided with the rear of his parked 
car and caused damage and personal injury. I think Calpe then had to reasonably 
investigate the claim. Mr N denied involvement. Calpe asked Mr N by phone, email and post 
for his version of events and other documents. But Mr N didnt provide these within the 
requested time.
Calpe instructed an independent assessor to inspect Mr Ns car. He said there was no 
damage to the car that corresponded to the reported incident and there was no evidence of 
recent repairs. But the other drivers representatives provided photographs of Mr Ns car at 
the scene. An engineers assessment was made on damage to the other drivers car that 
was consistent with his report. 
Mr N said he didnt respond to Calpes requests because he was ill at the time due to the 
pandemic. But I can see that Calpe requested this information before the pandemic and also 
Mr N was able to arrange to meet the independent assessor without problem. I can also see 
that Calpe tried to contact Mr N by letter and email. And I cant see that Mr N told Calpe that 
hed changed his address temporarily. 
Calpe is obliged to settle claims promptly. It decided that it didnt have evidence to enable it 
to defend the matter if it went to court. So it said it settled the other drivers claim on the best 
possible terms. I can see that it reached a compromise with the other drivers 
representatives in order to keep costs low. The other driver later decided not to go ahead 
with repairs, but a personal injury claim remained. A fault was recorded against Mr N. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing an accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr N the same as someone else in his position. 
Im satisfied that Calpe is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr N to 
take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr N has to follow its advice in connection 
with the settlement of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common 
term in motor insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
And I think, due to the lack of co-operation from Mr N, Calpe didnt have sufficient evidence 
to defend the claim. The other drivers claim for damage was consistent with the reported 
incident. His claim was modest, and he didnt want a courtesy car. There was no doubt that 
Mr N was at the scene. Mr N said his family would provide statements, but they wouldnt be 
regarded as independent. And so Calpe settled the claim on the best possible terms, as its 
entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. So I cant say that Calpe did anything 
wrong in this. 
Calpe said Mr Ns policy had been cancelled due to a failed direct debit and he should take 
this up with his broker. I think its for Mr N to do this if he so wishes. But I cant consider this 
here as its a separate business to Calpe. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman