DRN-3858873
The complaint
Ms W complains that Vitality Life Limited trading as Vitality Life breached her data to a third 
party and caused her significant distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
The third party is not a party to this complaint and will be referred to as Mr X. 
Ms W took out a joint life policy in July 2015 with her ex-husband who has since sadly 
passed away. Mr X called Vitality on 9 December 2021 and again on 10 December 2021. 
During the initial call, Vitalitys call handler confirmed some details about the policy which 
involved discussing Ms Ws personal information. 
Ms W was unhappy about this and complained to Vitality. 
Vitality considered the complaint and upheld it. In summary, it apologised for the errors it 
made, whilst it maintained that it hadnt committed a data breach it did acknowledge the 
distress its errors caused Ms W. To put things right it offered £500 compensation and a 
hamper, however Ms W didnt accept this and referred her complaint to our service.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, he explained that the complaint about the 
possible data breach wasnt something our service could consider, and it was best placed for 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to investigate. However, he did look at the 
impact Vitalitys error had on Ms W and concluded that its offer of £500 compensation along 
with a hamper was fair. 
Ms W disagreed and is seeking an increased amount of compensation. In short, she said our 
investigator hadnt considered the amount of time and distress Vitalitys errors had caused 
along with the legal fees she has paid. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint, and awarding Ms W the same amount already 
recommended, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. Before I explain why Ive 
reached my decision I think it would be useful to explain exactly what Ive been able to 
consider. I recognise Ms W has raised concerns about the possible data breach caused by 
Vitalitys errors, but these issues fall within the ICOs remit. I am aware that Ms W has 
already referred her complaint about this, so I wont comment on it further. But what I can, 
and have considered is the impact Vitalitys error has had on Ms W. 
Ms W has said she is unhappy that her information had been shared with Mr X in error. 
Shes explained this has caused her significant stress and inconvenience in trying to sort the 
matter out. 
As Vitality has made an offer to resolve Ms Ws complaint, it falls to me to decide whether 
that offer is fair. And in doing so Ive taken careful note of what Ms W has said about the 
wider impact this has had on her. I think Vitality has made an error here so Ive thought 
about what I think it should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
I do understand that Ms W wanted a higher award than Vitality has offered but I must also 
bear in mind that Vitality accepts fault and has made an offer of compensation. What I must 
now think about is whether or not this should be increased and include, as Ms W suggests, 
an amount to cover her legal fees.
Ive looked at the evidence Ms W has provided, including an invoice from her solicitor billing 
for legal fees. I appreciate Ms W has said shes had to instruct a solicitor to sort out Vitalitys 
mistake, but Im not persuaded by this. Im satisfied that Vitality has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer which I think fairly reflects the level of inconvenience caused. 
I also think the issue was resolved within a reasonable amount of time, further the invoice is 
issued to the executors of the estate and so I think there would have been work incurred by 
solicitors in any event in dealing with the estate.  
Ive considered the distress Ms W wouldve felt after learning about the data breach, as I 
think it would be natural for her to have concerns about other information Vitality held and 
this reoccurring in the future. Ive thought about this against the fact that the actual 
information disclosed during the phone calls, which while personal, wasnt what the ICO 
would class as high-risk personal information. 
This means Ms W wasnt exposed to potentially significant fraudulent activity due to the 
breach. Having thought about this all together, I think the £500 and hamper already offered 
by Vitality is a fair one that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve 
recommended, had it not already been made. Whilst I know Ms W had dietary requirements, 
she doesn't need to accept the hamper, but I think the £500 on its own is sufficient to 
compensate her for the mistakes Vitality made. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that the offer made by Vitality Life 
Limited trading as Vitality Life is fair and reasonable. 
As I said above, Ms W can decide whether she still wishes to accept the hamper and the 
money, but I'm satisfied what it has offered is fair and reasonable. So, I order Vitality Life 
Limited trading as Vitality Life to pay Ms W £500 and a hamper.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman