DRN-3861735
The complaint
Mr C complains UK Credit Limit irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
UK Credit approved Mr C for a £5,000 loan in July 2011. The term of the loan was 60 
months, with repayments of effectively £200 per month. Mr C says UK Credit lent this loan 
irresponsibly to him. He says UK Credit did not complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks; and had it done so it wouldve realised the loan was not affordable to him. The 
purpose of the loan was to help Mr C with funding towards his wedding. The loan was repaid 
in 2016.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He didnt think UK Credit had 
completed proportionate checks. Our investigator went on to say that had further checks 
been completed UK Credit wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable. This was because 
he was not persuaded that the loan could be sustainably repaid by Mr C. 
UK Credit disagreed with our investigator. It maintained it had lent responsibly to Mr C. It 
says had further checks been completed it wouldve still lent. This is because it maintains the 
further information wouldve likely shown Mr C could sustainably afford the repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
UK Credit and Mr C are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail here. 
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr C. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time UK Credit lent effectively required it to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Cs 
ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, without causing him financial 
difficulties.
There wasnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they shouldve been 
effectively proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total 
cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it wasnt sufficient for UK Credit to just complete proportionate checks  it also had to 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Our investigator didnt think UK Credit had completed proportionate checks. This was in 
essence because the information which was presented at the time raised suggestions that 
Mr C was not managing his finances in line with the information which had been provided (in 
this instance a copy of his payslip and an income and expenditure assessment). This was 
highlighted by negative markers such as one of Mr Cs credit cards being two months in 
arrears and a previous default from three months prior to the application for a bank account 
(the amount defaulted was approximately £250).  Mr C also had a credit card which had 
sustained arrears and seemingly a delinquent amount on it which had been reduced but was 
still showing as being in arrears. This prompted our investigator to concluded that 
proportionate checks wouldve involved gaining a better insight into Mr Cs finances before 
making a decision to lend. 
UK Credit did not raise new objections to this finding in the response to our investigators 
assessment; and as such I can reasonably conclude it is in agreement with it. But for the 
sake of completeness; Im also satisfied that the checks which UK Credit completed were 
not proportionate in this instance. This is for effectively the same reasons that our 
investigator outlined to UK Credit. Im satisfied there was sufficient information to 
demonstrate that Mr Cs outgoings needed further checks before UK Credit could make a 
fair decision to lend. 
As Im satisfied that proportionate checks werent completed; Ive gone on to consider what 
further proportionate checks wouldve likely shown. In this instance Mr C has provided 
copies of his bank statements. And in the absence of any contrary information Im satisfied 
that this information should carry sufficient weight. As such Ive used this information when 
coming to my decision.
The statements show that Mr C was receiving the level of income he disclosed on his 
application. However, the statements suggest his outgoings, or at least the way he was 
managing his finances, was such that he was not in a position to sustainably repay the 
amount being advanced by UK Credit.
UK Credit says the loan was affordable to Mr C; as the statements suggest he had sufficient 
income to meet the repayments. At this point I do think its important for me to set out that 
UK Credit was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably make the loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
The statements show Mr C was utilising his overdraft heavily; and that his income was not 
sufficient to place him in a credit position for any sustained period of time. And whilst utilising 
an overdraft may, in itself, not be enough for a case to be considered unaffordable, Im 
satisfied in this instance it suggested sufficiently that Mr C wasnt managing his finances in a 
sustainable way.
The statements suggest that Mr C was using other forms of credit to help supplement his 
income such as a bank loan, and a recent short term loan. Whilst UK Credits searches 
showed the unsecured loan, they did not show the short term loan. This is in addition to the 
previously highlighted recent default; and the fact Mr C had arrears on multiple accounts. 
Taking this into account Im satisfied that it demonstrates Mr C was struggling to meet his 
existing repayments sustainably without having to borrow further or incurring financial 
difficulties. 
As such it follows that, Im satisfied he likely couldnt have sustainably afforded this loan 
either. Im persuaded that UK Credit shouldve reasonably come to this conclusion too had it completed further proportionate checks. As such Im satisfied UK Credit acted unfairly when 
it approved this loan to Mr C. 
Putting things right
Mr C has had to pay for additional interest and charges on a loan he should not have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied Mr has lost out as a result of UK Credits actions and as such 
it needs to put things right. 
Having considered all of the information I require UK Credit to:
refund all of the interest and charges Mr C has paid related to this loan; 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information in relation to this loan from Mr Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK  Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman