DRN-3213800
The complaint
Mr M says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Moneyboat provided to Mr M in December 2020. 
Mr Ms loan for £200 was to repaid in four monthly instalments, with the highest being 
£73.85. Mr M repaid his loan
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
Moneyboat disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
Moneyboat said its affordability checks were proportionate for this first loan. It said Mr Ms 
credit report didnt show any signs of financial difficulties.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Moneyboat asked Mr M for information about his monthly income and outgoings, and it 
carried out a credit check. Mr M said his monthly income was £1,663 and his monthly 
outgoings totalled £900. So Mr M looked to have a monthly disposable income of £763, 
which would be sufficient to meet his loan repayments.
But, as our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for the loan would most likely have 
shown that Mr M was having problems managing his money:
This was the first loan that Moneyboat approved for Mr M. But Mr M had applied for at 
least 20 earlier loans from Moneyboat, many where he had a higher income, and these 
applications had all been declined. 
So I think Moneyboat should have realised that Mr M was having financial difficulties and 
so verified the information he had provided. The credit check it carried out showed one 
unpaid loan. But I think it wasnt enough for Moneyboat to rely on just the checks it had 
carried out. So I think Moneyboats affordability checks werent sufficient in Mr Ms 
particular circumstances. 
Mr M has provided us with his bank statements from the time and these show that Mr M 
was having financial issues. And so Moneyboat should have realised, if it had made 
sufficient checks, that further lending would be irresponsible.
So I think that if Moneyboat had carried out sufficient and proportionate checks it would have 
realised that its loan to Mr M wasnt sustainable, and so it shouldnt have approved the loan. 
So Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about his loan and I think Moneyboat should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Moneyboat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had not lent to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I require Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to do the 
following:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on his loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to carry out the redress 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman