DRN-3209520
The complaint
Ms J complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid Mastercard (NewDay) was irresponsible 
in raising the credit limit on her account.
What happened
In April 2019, Ms J opened a credit card account with NewDay. The credit limit was £900. In 
August 2019, NewDay increased the credit limit to £2,150. In February 2020, NewDay 
increased the credit limit again, to £3,150.
In 2021, Ms J complained to NewDay. She said that these increases hadnt been 
appropriate and that, if NewDay had made suitable checks at the time, it would have seen 
that her financial position didnt support them. She said they had the effect of increasing her 
monthly minimum payment and putting her under increased financial hardship.
NewDay didnt uphold the complaint. It said that, as a second chance lender, it accepts 
some negative information on a customers credit file when assessing credit card 
applications, because its accounts are designed to help customers with a lower credit rating. 
It said it carried out an in-depth evaluation before each increase to Ms Js credit limit and 
that the increases had been made correctly, in line with its lending policy. NewDay also said 
that Ms J had the opportunity to opt out of each increase but didnt do so.
Ms J wasnt happy with NewDays response and asked this service to look at the complaint. 
Our Investigator didnt think the increases had been affordable. He recommended that 
NewDay refund the additional interest and charges which Ms J has paid from the date of the 
first credit limit increase in August 2019. NewDay didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are industry rules and best practice guidelines which apply to credit limit increases for 
credit cards. In line with these, Id expect a business to assess a customers creditworthiness 
and consider how their financial situation may be adversely affected before significantly 
increasing their credit limit.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that NewDay made checks before increasing 
Ms Js credit limit. But I need to consider whether those checks were appropriate and, if so, 
whether its decision to increase the limit was reasonable, based on the information it 
obtained.
NewDay says that both the credit limit increases were made in line with its lending policy. It 
says that at no time did Ms J incur late payment fees or over-limit fees. It says there was no 
large retail spending or cash spending by Ms J, and she didnt use up all the available credit 
when the increases were made. It says that the large part of Ms Js initial spending on the 
card was from balance transfers. Ive thought about what NewDay says and I think all these 
factors were relevant considerations. But I dont think they told the full story of Ms Js 
finances or meant that the increases would be affordable.
When Ms J applied for the credit card, NewDay set a credit limit of £900. It said in its final 
response letter You met our acceptance criteria and as a result, you were provided with our 
card and a credit limit of £900 was given, which we believe was appropriate given your 
circumstances. It says that, before the credit limit was increased, it carried out adequate 
checks to ensure the new limits were affordable. It says that neither Ms Js card use nor 
information from the Credit Reference Agencies indicated that the credit limit shouldnt be 
increased. 
But the information Ive seen doesnt show any significant change in Ms Js finances from 
the time the account was opened to the time of the first increase, or in between the two 
increases. I havent seen anything which suggested that she had become able to afford a 
higher level of borrowing, particularly taking into account the amount of borrowing compared 
to her income. 
Im not satisfied that NewDay did enough to establish that the credit limit increases were 
affordable, especially as they were significant increases. NewDay thought that £900 was an 
appropriate credit limit in April 2019. I dont think the data showed Ms Js financial situation 
to have changed by August 2019 so as to make a limit of £2,150 affordable. Likewise, Im 
not satisfied that the data showed £3,150 to have become affordable six months later. Ms Js 
circumstances hadnt changed in a way which supported these increases and she says they 
werent affordable.
I realise that lenders may sometimes grant a small initial credit limit and then increase it in 
stages. But Id only expect the lender to increase the limit if the card was used responsibly 
and other data indicated that the customer would be able to manage a higher limit. Here, the 
initial credit limit wasnt particularly small. And, although Ms J was using the card 
responsibly, Im not satisfied that the other information available to NewDay indicated that 
she could manage a higher level of borrowing. 
In light of this, I dont think it was reasonable for NewDay to increase the credit limit on either 
occasion.
Im satisfied that NewDay gave Ms J notice of the credit limit increases and that she had the 
chance to opt out of them. But, if a customer is struggling financially, I dont think its 
necessarily reasonable to expect them to turn down an unsolicited increase in credit. 
I think the fair outcome here would be for NewDay to refund the interest and charges which 
Ms J has paid as a result of the credit limit increases and ensure that no such interest or 
charges are applied going forward. This means that Ms J shouldnt be charged interest on 
any balance over £900 from the date of the credit limit increase in August 2019 onwards. 
Any charges which wouldnt have arisen if the credit limit had remained at £900 should also 
be refunded. The refunds should be applied to any outstanding balance. If the amount to be 
refunded exceeds the outstanding account balance, the surplus should be paid to Ms J with 
interest.
Ms J has also complained that, while she was on a payment plan, NewDay reported her 
account as being in arrears which negatively affected her credit file. Our Investigator 
suggested that the parties should await the outcome of the refund calculation (as set out 
above) to see how that affects Ms Js account balance. I think thats a sensible approach. 
Once the issue of the credit limit increases has been resolved in the way I have set out, the 
parties should review the status of the account and work together to agree how the credit file should be dealt with. If the parties cant reach agreement and Ms J wishes this service to 
look into it, that issue will need to be investigated separately by this service. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid Mastercard 
should:
refund any interest paid by Ms J on any balance over £900 from the date of the credit 
limit increase in August 2019 onwards;
refund any charges paid by Ms J which wouldnt have arisen if the credit limit had 
remained at £900;
recalculate Ms Js account balance and remove any such interest or charges which 
have been applied but not yet paid by Ms J;
ensure that no such interest or charges are applied to the account going forward;
apply the refunds to any outstanding balance on Ms Js account; and
if the amount to be refunded exceeds the outstanding account balance, pay the 
surplus to Ms J together with simple interest at 8% a year on the surplus from the 
date of this decision until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman