DRN-3267588
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car shed acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. Miss H wants to now reject the car and cancel 
the agreement. 
What happened
In August 2020 Miss H entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement for a used car 
with Close Brothers. The car was around three years old and had a mileage of about 43,300.
Miss H says that when she acquired the car the supplying dealer informed her that it was 
covered by a warranty and so if she had problems she would be able to take the car to a 
local manufacturer approved garage for any repairs.
In February 2021 Miss H began to experience issues with the cars electrics and the 
infotainment system stopped working and there were intermittent issues with the indicators 
and hazard lights. Miss H arranged for the car to be seen at her local garage.
The garage diagnosed an issue with the cars fuse box and also advised that there was a 
recall on the cars fuel pump. It ordered the necessary part and kept the car. Unfortunately, 
there was a delay in the part being delivered and so in May 2021 Miss H complained to 
Close Brothers about the faulty car.
Close Brothers spoke with the supplying dealer who said it would be happy to investigate the 
issues with the car. The car was collected and returned to the dealer who said it couldnt find 
a fault. Close Brothers arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car in August 
2021.
The independent engineer reported that although they found the infotainment system didnt 
work, they couldnt find any issues with the indicators and hazards. They also said that as 
the car was able to be started several times without any problem, they werent able to find 
any issue with the fuel pump. The independent engineer said that in their opinion the fault 
with the radio wouldnt have been present at the point of supply and was likely due to wear 
and tear. They said electrical faults can develop instantaneously and often without warning 
and were usually caused by sudden shorts due to failures with insulators or open circuits 
due to soldier issues.
Close Brothers didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. It said that the issues with the car had 
arisen through wear and tear and hadnt been present at the point of supply and so it wasnt 
liable for any repairs. It said the car had been of satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss H.
The car was returned to Miss H and Close Brothers also reimbursed her the monthly 
payments shed made during the period the car had been at the garage. Miss H says since it 
was returned, the car has suffered further issues with its heating, locking system and lights.
Miss H disagreed with Close Brothers view and complained to this service. She said the 
faults with the car, save the infotainment system, were all intermittent in nature and shed 
been advised there was an electrical fault with the car. She said the manufacturer approved 
garage had diagnosed an issue with the fuse box which hadnt yet been repaired. 
The independent engineer was asked to provide a further opinion as to the diagnosed fault 
with the fuse box. This was because at the time of the independent engineers original 
report, they hadnt been aware that the manufacturer approved garage had made this 
diagnosis following an inspection of the car in March 2021. 
The independent engineer agreed that the intermittent faults complained of by Miss H could 
be due to an issue with the fuse box but said that the only way to be sure would be by 
replacing this part. They also said it was unlikely this was a fault that would have been 
present from the point of supply when looking at the amount of time that had passed 
between the inception of the agreement and when the issue had arisen. The engineer said 
electrical issues can arise at any time.  
Our investigator recommended that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. He said he was 
satisfied that although this was a used car, a reasonable person wouldnt have expected 
electrical issues with the car to have developed as soon as they had, and he didnt think the 
car had been durable.
Our investigator said that he thought it would be fair for Miss H to now reject the car, have 
her deposit repaid and receive £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused having to deal with the faulty car.
Close Brothers disagreed with the view of our investigator. It said that the independent 
engineer had provided clear evidence as to the unique nature of electrical faults and their 
impact. Close Brothers said the issues had arisen between three and six months after Miss 
H had acquired the car, it said it had been reasonably durable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Miss H is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers is also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasnt new being around three-years old and with a mileage of about 43,300. I think that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have 
expected there to be some issues over time with maintenance and repair since 
components of the car would have been subject to some wear and tear through use. So, 
unlike a new car, there wouldnt be expectation that the car was fault free.
Miss H raised issues with the car with her local manufacturer approved garage around 
February 2021. She says many of the problems were intermittent such as the indicators 
and hazard lights not working on occasions. Miss H has also reported an increase in the 
faults with the car that all appear to be electrical in nature such as the locking system.
Miss Hs local manufacturer approved garage diagnosed a fault with the fuse box and 
ordered a new part. Unfortunately, it has taken several months for this part to be delivered 
so this repair hasnt yet been undertaken. It also appears that when the independent 
engineer first inspected the car in August 2021, they were unaware that the issues with 
the car were intermittent and that an issue with the fuse box had already been identified 
by another garage. However, although no problems with the cars lights were found the 
engineer did confirm the fault with the infotainment system and that this was potentially an 
electrical issue.
It appears that following the independent engineer reviewing the additional evidence, they 
now accept the problems Miss H describes having with the car could be linked to issues 
with the fuse box. Though they also said electrical faults can be difficult to diagnose and 
they only way to test if the fuse box was the source of the problems would be to replace it 
and see if that resolved the issues. So, there is a possibility that replacing the fuse box 
may not address the issues reported by Miss H.
However, looking at the evidence, I am satisfied that there is a current fault with the car. I 
also think its reasonable to conclude that the problems Miss H is experiencing are 
electrical in nature. Further, that these electrical issues appear to have started around 
February 2021 meaning Miss H had had the car for around five months before they 
appeared.
Close Brothers says that due to the nature of electrical faults which can arise suddenly 
and at any time, that the car didnt have this fault either present or developing at the point 
of supply. It also says that the nature of the faults with the car do not mean that the car 
wasnt as durable as would reasonably expected.
However, Ive seen that although electrical problems can suddenly arise without warning 
these failures can, as set out by the independent engineer, be due to failures of insulation 
or circuits. And I think that when taking into account the cars age and mileage when the 
faults became apparent, that a reasonable person wouldnt have expected electrical 
issues to arise with the car so soon. Particularly as a number of different components 
appear to have been affected. Just because electrical issues can happen instantaneously 
doesnt necessarily mean that the car should be considered as durable. I dont think I can 
say the issue with the car has arisen through expected wear and tear. 
Ive seen that Miss H has had to wait several months for the fuse box to be repaired and 
that there is no guarantee that the issues with the car will all have been fixed when that 
new part has been fitted. I think in these circumstances that its fair for Miss H to now 
reject the car and for the agreement to be unwound. As Miss H has been reimbursed for 
the period she was without the car already by Close Brothers Im not asking it to 
reimburse further payments. Ive seen that Miss H has been able to make some use of the 
car once it was returned to her, but she has suffered distress and inconvenience having to 
deal with the faulty car. I agree with our investigator that £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.So, for the reasons set out above Im upholding Miss Hs complaint.
  
Putting things right
Im asking Close Brothers to do the following: 
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss H
Reimburse Miss H her deposit of £2,000 together with added interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss H £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having 
to deal with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Miss Hs credit file. 
My final decision
As set out above, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint. Im asking Close Brothers Limited to do 
the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss H
Reimburse Miss H her deposit of £2,000 together with added interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss H £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having 
to deal with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Miss Hs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman