DRN-4014865
The complaint
Mr C has complained Santander UK plc has closed his account and added a fraud-related 
marker to his record.
What happened
In mid-2022 Mr C was asked to help out a friend (who Ill call Mr W) by another friend. 
Although this wasnt someone he knew, he agreed £320 could be paid into his account and 
hed repay Mr W. 
Mr C then had to go elsewhere to buy a dog. 
Mr W complained to his bank that hed been defrauded. His bank asked Santander to repay 
£320. After reviewing what had happened, Santander decided to tell Mr C they would be 
closing his account. They also lodged a fraud-related marker with CIFAS, the industry fraud 
body, that Mr C had misused his banking facility.
Mr C found it difficult to open another account and asked Santander to remove the marker. 
They wouldnt do so as they felt theyd taken appropriate steps to check the information 
theyd received. Mr C brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator felt that Mr Cs story to our service had changed on a couple of occasions 
and thought he wasnt credible. He confirmed he wasnt going to ask Santander to remove 
the CIFAS marker.
Disappointed, Mr C has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator wrote a detailed view on 8 March 2023. I feel no need to rerun a lot of what 
was said there.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Santander must be able to 
provide clear evidence that a financial crime was being committed and Mr C was part of this.
Santander has been able to provide us with notes of their discussions with both Mr C and 
Mr Ws bank at the time. Weve also been able to discuss what happened with Mr Ws bank. 
Theyve got clear concerns about what was happening.
Ive also looked at what Mr C has told us. His story has changed on a few occasions, and 
despite reassuring us that Mr W was telling his bank all that had happened was a mistake, I 
dont believe this ever happened.
I also find it too convenient that just after receiving £320 into his account, instead of taking 
steps to give this cash straight to Mr W (whose money all parties agree it was), Mr C 
travelled to another city to buy a dog. He then withdrew all the funds hed been given by 
Mr W without, as far as the evidence suggests, trying to repay him.
I appreciate the difficulties a CIFAS marker may have caused Mr C in finding another bank 
account. However there is a requirement that hed be able to get a basic bank account 
despite there being a marker against him. So I dont accept that hes not been able to get an 
account at all.
Overall Im not going to ask Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman