The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc is holding him liable for five mobile phone payments 
made from his account, after he says his phone was stolen. The five payments amount to 
nearly £1,900.
What happened
In September 2019 five payments were made between 2am and 3am on the same day using 
Mr L's mobile banking app. In addition, money was transferred between his accounts, which 
in part funded the payments to two new payees. Nearly £1,000 of the payments was made 
using Mr L's overdraft facility. 
Mr L said he hadn't made the payments. His phone had been stolen, and he believes 
someone must have observed him using the code to unlock it before taking it from his 
pocket. His phone allowed him to store passwords securely, and he believed this had 
enabled a thief to gain access to his accounts. He thought it possible too that someone could 
have added their own fingerprint to his phone to gain access, since it can be unlocked using 
a passcode or a fingerprint.
HSBC didn't accept what Mr L had said. It thought that he had either made the payments 
himself or, if he hadn't, he hadn't kept his security information safe - in breach of the account 
terms.
Mr L referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. Initially he 
concluded that it was more likely than not that Mr L had, as he said, been a victim of fraud. 
That is, he hadn't made the payments himself. He didn't consider either that Mr L had been 
so careless with his security information that the bank could hold him liable for any of the 
payments made from his account. 
HSBC didn't accept the investigator's initial findings. It said that the banking app had been 
accessed using a digital secure key. The security features of the app prevent that key from 
being stored on a phone in the way Mr L had suggested. In addition, the bank said, if the 
fingerprint is changed, the app will require the passcode to be entered. 
Having considered this further information, the investigator reviewed his earlier findings and 
concluded that, on balance, Mr L probably had been responsible for the payments. He didn't 
recommend that HSBC refund them. Mr L didn't accept the investigator's revised 
conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1902471reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I'm broadly in 
agreement with the investigator's revised conclusions about Mr L's complaint. That is, I think 
it more likely than not that he made the disputed payments himself or authorised someone 
else to make them.   
Mr L says that somebody must have watched him using the passcode for his phone and 
then stolen it in the early hours of the morning. It's not clear though in what circumstances 
that might have happened. 
However, even if Mr L did have his phone stolen and someone was able to gain access to it, 
they would then have needed to gain access to the mobile banking app. I accept the bank's 
evidence that that wouldn't have been possible without the digital secure key and that it 
wouldn't have been possible to store that on the phone. I also accept that a changed 
fingerprint would have required a secure key to be entered as well. I don't believe therefore 
that someone who was able to take Mr L's phone without his knowledge would have been 
able to access the app and make the transfer and payments.    
In his initial view of this case the investigator discussed whether or not Mr L had been 
grossly negligent in failing to keep his security details safe. He explained that was relevant to 
those payments which weren't made using a credit facility (in this case, the overdraft). But, 
because I'm satisfied that Mr L made the payments himself or authorised someone else to 
make them, I don't need to discuss that further.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I don't require HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr L's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman