DRN-3439270
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way in which Sainsbury's Bank Plc handled complaints he made 
about defective goods which he bought using his credit card.  
What happened
In July 2020 Mr L bought a ladder online from a retailer, which Ill call L. He paid just over 
£100 for the ladder. After hed had it a few weeks, Mr L complained to L that he did not think 
the ladder was safe. He provided photographs which, he said, showed that it was unstable. 
L said that it did not believe there was anything wrong with the ladder and that Mr L was 
outside the 14-day limit for returning goods bought online. It replaced the ladders stabiliser 
but would not accept its return. 
Mr L referred the matter to Sainsburys Bank, and it raised a chargeback claim with L. L 
defended that claim and Sainsburys Bank decided not to take matters any further. Mr L 
asked Sainsburys Bank to take matters further, but it said that it was by then too late to do 
so. 
On 2 October 2020 Mr L bought a bed from a retailer which Ill call B. It cost £108.00. The 
bed was delivered on or about 13 October. Mr L had to self-assemble it, but he found that 
some of the parts did not fit properly. B sent replacements, but Mr L said that it should also 
pay him compensation. B refused to do so. On or about 6 November he said that he wanted 
to reject the bed and invited B to collect it. B refused to do so.  
Mr L complained to Sainsburys Bank, which raised a chargeback claim. B defended the 
claim, and Sainsburys Bank decided not to pursue matters any further. 
Mr L referred both matters to this service, but our investigator thought that Sainsburys Bank 
had acted fairly. There was, she thought, insufficient evidence to show that either item was 
faulty. Mr L did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review matters. She noted that Sainsburys Bank had offered a total of £55 in recognition of 
failings in the way it handled the complaints. She thought that was fair in the circumstances.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
General principles
Sainsburys Bank did not supply the goods in either case. The suppliers were L and B 
respectively. But, where goods are paid for with a payment card, the card provider may be 
able to request a refund under the chargeback scheme. That scheme provides a mechanism 
for resolving payment disputes where, for example, payments are taken fraudulently, 
duplicate payments are made, or where goods are not delivered or are not satisfactory. 
Quite short time limits can apply. 
We generally take the view that a card issuer should  as a matter of good practice  seek a 
chargeback where there are reasonable prospects of obtaining a refund. 
In addition, where the card used is a credit card, one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 is that, if the cardholder has a claim for breach of contract against the 
supplier, he has a like claim against the card issuer. Section 75(1) is subject to certain 
financial limits, but I am satisfied they are met in both cases here. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that a sale contract to a consumer is to be read as 
including a term that goods will be of satisfactory quality. 
In addition, The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) 
Regulations 2013 say that a consumer has 14 days from delivery in which to cancel a 
distance contract  which includes a contract where goods are bought online. 
I have considered each contract with these principles in mind. 
The contract for the ladder
I note what Mr L says about the information he was given about chargeback and the way in 
which Sainsburys Bank handled the chargeback claim. At the heart of his complaint 
however is the question of whether the ladder was of satisfactory quality. I would need to be 
satisfied that it was not, whether I consider the matter under chargeback or under section 75. 
I do think that Sainsburys Bank should have considered whether a section 75 claim might 
be successful, even if Mr L had not raised it. His overriding concern was that the ladder was 
of unsatisfactory quality and that Sainsburys Bank should provide a refund, and it should 
have addressed that under both processes. 
However, I do not believe it makes any real difference in this case. That is because I agree 
with the investigator that Mr L has not provided any evidence to show that the ladder was in 
any way defective. He has provided some photographs, but they do not, in my view, show a 
defect. So, the only evidence is Mr Ls assertion of a defect. In the absence of any 
persuasive evidence showing a defect, I cannot fairly conclude that the bank should have 
provided a refund. 
Mr L had 14 days in which to reject the ladder. He could do that without having to show a 
defect. He did not however seek to reject the ladder within that time. 
The contract for the bed
B appeared to accept that the bed was not of satisfactory quality when it replaced some of 
the parts. After it had done so, however, Mr L said only that the bed was of poor quality. He 
has not elaborated or expanded on that assertion. As with the ladder, therefore, there is very 
little evidence on which I can fairly conclude that it was defective. Any specific problems, 
rather than general dissatisfaction, appear to have been resolved by the supply of 
replacement parts. 
For this reason, I do not believe that Sainsburys Bank acted unfairly by deciding not to 
pursue the chargeback claim any further; it could only succeed if the bed were shown to be 
defective. For the same reason, I am satisfied that a section 75 would not succeed. So, 
whether or not Sainsburys Bank actually addressed section 75, I do not believe it would 
have made any difference to the overall outcome. 
Mr L did say very clearly that he wanted to reject the bed. But he did so on 6 November 2020, more than 14 days after delivery.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Sainsburys Bank Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman