DRN-3464834
The complaint
S, a charity, complains that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc wont provide cover for a 
claim it seeks to make for legal expenses. Its represented by its trustee, Mr W.
What happened
S holds an insurance policy with Ecclesiastical. Part of the policy provides cover for 
reputational damage and legal expenses in respect of libel.
Mr W, on behalf of S, believes that defamatory statements have been made by a third party. 
He sought to make a claim on the policy in order to pursue a legal claim for libel against the 
third party.
Ecclesiastical declined cover for the claim. It said the cover in S policy for libel only 
extended to circumstances where an alleged defamatory statement was first made by S, or 
one of its representatives, and a claim had first been made against S. 
S complained to Ecclesiastical. It said that a policy summary it had been sent didnt include 
this condition and was vague. It argued that on that basis, the claim should be covered. 
When Ecclesiastical rejected the complaint, S referred it to our service. Our investigator 
thought that Ecclesiastical had acted fairly. Mr W, on behalf of S, didnt agree and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here has been to consider the documents available to S and what they say 
in relation to cover for libel proceedings. The three relevant documents are the policy 
schedule, a document with the title Summary of cover and one with the title Reputational 
risks.
The policy schedule says Please read this schedule alongside your Charity and Community 
Insurance policy document. It goes on to give details of how to obtain a copy of the policy 
documents.
The Summary of cover document, in the introduction, says This document summarises the 
main covers, features and exclusions of the Charity and Community policy. If you wish to 
see the full terms and conditions a policy document is available by contacting us or your 
broker.
In the Reputational risks section, the summary of cover goes on to say:
What is covered
Damage to the organisations reputation including:
Libel and slander
How much will you be insured for
Libel and slander - £250,000 in any one period of insurance.
The Policy document, in the Reputational risks sections says:
Libel and slander
This insurance only covers those losses which arise from claims made against you during 
the period of insurance.
We will indemnify you against your legal liability to pay damages and legal costs arising out 
of or caused by
(i) The publication or utterance by you or on your behalf of a libel or slander
(ii) Infringement of a trademark registered design copyright or patent right
Provided that a claim is first made against you during the period of insurance.
A point not in dispute here is that no claim has been made against S for any alleged libel or 
slander. It also isnt suggested that any representative of S has libelled or slandered a third 
party. Instead, S seeks cover in order to initiate legal proceedings for libel against a third 
party for what it considers to be libellous statements. 
Mr W, on behalf of S, says that the policy document and summary of cover are 
contradictory. He says the summary of cover says theres cover to take legal proceedings for 
libel, and so the policy should provide cover for the proceedings S wishes to take.
I dont agree with Mr W here. Im not satisfied that any of the information available could 
reasonably suggest that the Summary of cover is intended to fully detail all of the terms 
and conditions of the policy, or detail the previse details of the cover provided by the policy. 
The title of the document clearly sets out that its a summary, and the introduction repeats 
this, with a specific direction to refer to the policy document for the full terms and conditions. 
I also note the policy schedule says it should be read alongside the policy document. The 
schedule doesnt indicate that the summary of cover is intended to act as comprehensively 
detailing the full extent of the cover available.
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions as detailed in the policy document confirm that 
for cover to be provided under the libel and slander section, there needs to be a claim made 
against S in the first instance  that isnt the case here.
I conclude that Ecclesiastical could fairly rely on the policy terms and conditions when it 
concluded S claim wasnt covered. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman