DRN-4033592
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about the penalties applied by Skipton Building Society for switching his 
ISA.
 
What happened
Mr B held a five year fixed rate ISA with Skipton. In February 2022 he contacted Skipton to 
explain he wanted to have access to some of his funds before the term ended but didnt 
want to incur the charge which was 365 days worth of interest. Although Skipton considered 
Mr Bs request to waive or reduce the charge, they concluded this would still stand. Mr B 
then funded a 30 month fixed rate ISA and wanted to take funds out of this account. Mr B 
was unhappy there would be a charge for this, and that overall, hed incur a double charge 
for simply wanting to access his funds. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Skipton made it clear in the terms and 
conditions and during webchats that there would be a charge if Mr B withdrew or transferred 
his funds early from the five year ISA, and that they confirmed this to him prior to the 
deadline for funding the 30 month ISA.
Mr B disagreed. He said whilst he was discussing whether Skipton would waive the first 
charge, Skipton put pressure on him stating an incorrect deadline to complete the transfer 
for the 30 month ISA. He also said the only time he had access to his funds was after they 
were placed in the 30 month ISA and this shouldnt mean he incurs a double charge. To 
resolve his complaint, hed like the second charge refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
five year ISA
I can see that Mr B contacted Skipton in February 2022 explaining that he wanted access to 
his funds but didnt realise the charge that would be imposed. He said hed reinvest most of 
his funds back into the 30-month ISA and asked whether Skipton would reduce the charge.
Although I sympathise with Mr B that he hadnt realised the charge hed incur, having looked 
at the terms and conditions and the online application I think Skipton made it clear partial 
withdrawals werent available and that early closure would incur a charge.
Skipton said their admin team would be prepared to consider reducing the charge but that 
hed need to submit this request with evidence of financial hardship. This was received by 
Skipton on 25 February. Skipton considered Mr Bs request but decided not to reduce the 
charge and informed him of this on 7 March. 
Im satisfied this was a reasonable decision. I say this because it doesnt seem Mr Bs 
circumstances were along the lines of the circumstances outlined in Skiptons terms and 
conditions regarding when they may waive the charge. So it follows that I dont think it was 
unfair Skipton declined his request.
I understand Mr B felt that Skiptons response was simplistic and that no one had properly 
considered his circumstances. I appreciate Skipton may not have given the level of detail Mr 
B may have wanted but Im satisfied Skipton did understand why Mr B wanted the charge 
waived/reduced. Skipton did give a clear answer that the charge would still stand, and this 
was in line with previous messages and the account terms and conditions. So Im satisfied 
they communicated the position clearly to him on 7 March, and I dont think this was 
unreasonably long.
There were additional conversations between Mr B and Skipton via webchat and secure 
messages regarding the charge. Skipton re-iterated that there would be a charge for an early 
withdrawal or transfer from Mr Bs five year ISA. Mr B feels it was inappropriate and 
premature for any other Skipton staff (such as those on webchat and answering his 
messages) to advise him that it was unlikely his request regarding the charge would be 
accepted, particularly as he hadnt received a response from the admin team by that stage. 
But I dont think Skipton did anything wrong as they outlined their process and the 
information they provided him with was correct.
Mr B said he felt pressured into funding the 30 month ISA because he was provided with a 
false deadline. In one of his online messages he said on 1 March he was incorrectly told the 
deadline was 2 March. However, having looked at these messages I can see on 2 March 
Mr B was told, correctly, that the deadline was 9 March. Whilst I can understand why Mr B 
may have initially been alarmed at the deadline of 2 March, Skipton corrected this quickly 
with the right information. 
Mr B has also said that he felt compelled to transfer prematurely before he had a response 
from the relevant team and that even if he received the response before the deadline he still 
felt under pressure. But Skipton gave their response regarding the charge on 7 March, which 
was prior to the deadline of 9 March, so I think this gave Mr B time to make a decision 
regarding his next steps. 
Ultimately the five year ISA was closed early and Skipton imposed the penalty. For the 
reasons Ive explained above I find Skipton acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.
30 month ISA
When Mr B funded the 30 month ISA, he transferred the full balance of his five year ISA 
straight into it. He didnt withdraw funds for his own use, which is why he says he made the 
change in the first place. And it meant later in the year, when he wanted access to the funds, 
he paid a further charge  this time 180 days interest. 
Having looked at the terms and conditions for the 30 month account and the online 
application, I think Skipton made it clear partial withdrawals werent available and that early 
closure would incur a charge. 
I note that Skipton advised Mr B online (in February) if he wanted to access his money hed 
have to withdraw the whole amount from the five year ISA and transfer it to an easy access 
ISA so he could withdraw a partial amount and put the remaining funds into a 30 month ISA. 
Im therefore satisfied Skipton told Mr B what was needed.
I realise Mr B is unhappy he didnt get a response about the charge hed incur for the 30 
month ISA when Skipton replied to him on 7 March. Although they didnt comment on the charge for the 30 month ISA, Skipton made it clear through the terms and conditions and 
online application a charge would apply for early access to his funds.
 
The webchats and Skiptons response on 7 March also explained the charge for the five year 
fixed ISA would still stand so given this, I dont think it would have been reasonable to think 
there was a guarantee the charge for the 30 month ISA would be waived. I also note that 
Skipton advised Mr B of an alternative option to avoid the double penalty prior to him funding 
the 30 month ISA but Mr B went ahead with it anyway knowing this charge would apply if he 
accessed his funds early. 
Mr B has said the terms and conditions dont cover the scenario when a customer switches 
from one fixed ISA to another. But the terms do clearly explain what will happen if a 
customer wishes to move their funds early. In addition to this, Mr B was aware of the 
charges hed incur before he decided to change his ISA from the five-year fixed to the 30 
month ISA.
I understand this will be incredibly disappointing for Mr B as he feels strongly that he 
shouldnt have incurred a double charge, and that its excessive to be charged 545 days 
interest as a charge to access his funds for the first time. He also says the spirit of a 
withdrawal penalty is to provide liquidity. Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs point of view, Mr B 
wanted to access his funds at an earlier date to what hed signed up to and the terms 
surrounding this were made clear to him upfront. Skipton also provided a helpful alternative 
to avoid the double charge. It follows that I dont think Skipton need to provide Mr B with a 
refund of the charge he incurred for accessing the funds in the 30 month ISA early.
Other issues 
Skipton agree that there had been some short comings in the service it offered to Mr B. 
Having read the online messages, it seems Skipton offered £125 in compensation which 
Mr B accepted in April 2022. 
It appears that a further £75 was offered as Skipton didnt specify the response time from the 
admin team, it overlooked one of Mr Bs queries and there were technical issues during one 
of the webchats. Mr B rejected this offer. Although I accept some of these service issues 
caused Mr B inconvenience, I dont think it is to the extent that Skipton need to increase this 
offer. I say this because Mr B did receive a response about the charge prior to the deadline, 
he received a response to his query and the technical issue seemed to be short lived. 
Skipton should pay this if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
Skipton has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that Skipton Building Society should pay 
Mr B £75 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman