DRN-3429657
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complaint that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money), unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act (1974) (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a points-based timeshare membership from a business, (business 
A), in April 2007. The cost of the timeshare was £15,509 funded by a loan provided by GE 
Money. The loan was in joint names and set to run for 15 years. 
Mr and Mrs M have said that when they took out the timeshare there was a number of 
misrepresentations made by the business A including:
- Being told they could only exit the agreement if they purchased a fractional 
points membership  they later became aware there were other reasons that 
would have allowed them to do this.
- That business A made statements and promises about the product that were 
false  although theyve not provided a specific detail to support this. 
In short though, I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs M feel like the benefits of the 
product and how to cancel the agreement were misrepresented when the timeshare 
was purchased.
In 2017 and again in 2018, Mr and Mrs M, with the support of a representative, complained 
to GE Money. It responded to say as the sale took place many years before the complaint, 
GE Money said that meant the complaint had been brought too late under the relevant 
provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 had been brought too late, so they 
didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They also looked 
s.140A CCA, but thought this had been brought too late too.]
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the 
matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mr and Mrs M, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its 
not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs M said business A [misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE 
Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it 
would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it 
clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs M may have to bring 
these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision 
Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down their 
claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 
1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action 
brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a 
claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of 
action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs M brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim 
was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means they had six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ms case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
April 2007. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of business A. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, 
as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 26 April 2007, so Mr and 
Mrs M had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money 
about their claim until 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I 
think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs M could have made a claim under s.140A 
CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their credit agreement. 
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act 
sets out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement 
had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of that credit agreement.
GE Money has shown that Mr and Mrs Ms agreement was paid off on 9 August 2007, so 
some time before 6 April 2008. Because of this, I dont think they are able to make a claim 
under s.140A.
Mr and Mrs Ms arguments on limitation
Mr and Mrs M, via their representative have argued that the time limits set out in LA 
shouldnt apply. They feel s.32 LA states that in a case of fraud, concealment or mistake, the 
limitation period only starts to from when a claimant discovers the fraud (or could have 
discovered it using due diligence). They feel the correct information about the amount of 
commission paid on the timeshare was concealed and GE Money should have told them 
about this. So its fair to extend the start time of LA because of this concealment.
Based on what Ive seen though, I cant say there was any concealment which would mean 
the start time of LA can be extended.
GE Money has provided the details of what was paid in Mr and Mrs Ms case and I can 
see the amount of commission paid represented 5% of the total purchase price. 
From what Ive seen across the industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be low 
and of less than 10% - which was the case here. Im satisfied GE Money didnt breach 
any duty in making such a payment  nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose 
the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. And I dont think the levels of 
commission that are normally paid in this situation were sufficiently high to mean that GE 
Money should have appreciated not disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs M risked the 
relationship being unfair under section 140A. Nor do I think this commission amount not 
being shared represented a concealment applicable under s.32.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M are able to rely on s.32 LA here. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that Ive seen nothing to show 
that business A was acting as agent to Mr and Mrs M. I cant see that its role was to make 
an impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan. And I dont think 
business A needed to disclose the fact that it might have received a commission to Mr and 
Mrs M.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim 
was brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr and Mrs M may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, 
as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that they might have against 
the supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I 
think it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not 
persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims
Unaffordable lending 
Mr and Mrs M have also said that GE Money was irresponsible to provide them with this loan 
and proper credit checks werent carried out. But they havent provided much to show why 
they feel further checks would have shown the loan wasnt affordable and that the lending 
decision was irresponsible.
GE Money has provided the details of the income and expenditure details reviewed when the loan was taken out. And on the face of it, it looks like Mr and Mrs M had a healthy 
disposable income from which the loan repayment could be made. But even if I were to find 
GE Money didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, Id still need to be satisfied 
that the lending was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs M and they lost out as a result in order to 
uphold this part of his complaint. 
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs M had any affordability issues during 
the life of this loan. Theres nothing to suggest that they struggled to meet the loan 
repayments - for example - or otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. 
So I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against GE 
Money Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman