DRN-3005226
Complaint
Mrs O has complained about Lloyds Bank PLCs (Lloyds) decision to withdraw her 
overdraft. She doesnt think that Lloyds should have removed the facility.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Os complaint. She thought Lloyds was entitled to 
withdraw the overdraft when it did and therefore it hadnt treated Mrs O unfairly. Mrs O 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs O got in contact with Lloyds, in October 2018, and made it aware 
she thought the charges on her overdraft were too high. Lloyds completed an income an 
expenditure assessment with Mrs O and offered to convert the overdraft into a loan with 
affordable monthly payments. But Mrs O didnt take up Lloyds offer at this point. 
In December 2018, Mrs O once again got in contact to say that she was experiencing 
financial difficulty. And once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty 
we would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory 
obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of 
their circumstances and the assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
As a result of its conversations with Mrs O, Lloyds agreed to stop adding interest, fees and 
charges to her overdraft and also put her on a three-month repayment plan. This was to 
provide some breathing space while more appropriate longer-term options were explored. 
This plan couldnt be a long-term solution in itself because it wouldnt reduce the overdraft 
enough to repay it within a reasonable period of time. 
In April 2019, Lloyds placed a further temporary freeze on interest being added and agreed a 
further six-month repayment plan. But as an income and expenditure assessment, which 
showed Mrs Os outgoings exceeded her income, was completed in October 2019, Lloyds 
decided to begin corrective action in relation to the overdraft and withdrew it in December 
2019.
I know Mrs O says that she was misled by Lloyds and that she wouldnt have agreed to any 
repayment plans had it been made clearer to her that her overdraft would be withdrawn. But 
her account conduct as well as the income and expenditure assessment suggested that her 
difficulties were likely to be longer-term and werent temporary. I do sympathise with what 
Mrs O has told us. I fully appreciate shes gone through a difficult time and understand why 
shes unhappy with her overdraft being withdrawn. 
That said, I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate to continue 
ignoring Mrs Os obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become 
demonstrably unsustainable for her, indefinitely. So even if Mrs O hadnt agreed to a 
repayment plan or wanted Lloyds to withdraw the overdraft, I would have expected Lloyds to 
have taken corrective action in relation to the facility anyway.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. And asking Lloyds to reinstate the overdraft here when it 
seems unlikely Mrs O will be able to repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, 
would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mrs Os interests or that of any future 
lender.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that Lloyds did exercise forbearance and due 
consideration when Mrs O initially got into contact and it offered appropriate temporary relief. 
However, when it became clear Mrs Os difficulties were longer-term and temporary short-
term measures were no longer appropriate, it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to begin the 
process of taking corrective action in relation to Mrs Os overdraft. And as Mrs O wasnt able 
to take steps to repay the overdraft within a reasonable period of time, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds was entitled to withdraw Mrs Os overdraft when it did. 
So overall and having considered everything, while I appreciate there may have been some 
miscommunication initially, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mrs O unfairly or unreasonably. 
And this means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs O. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman