DRN-3991100
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complaint about delays by National Savings and Investments (NS&I) when 
retuning funds.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr and Mrs M have told us they sent a large sum to NS&I by way of a CHAPS payment on 
4 May 2022. NS&I says its bank received the funds on 5 May 2022 but the payment 
instruction didnt contain a valid reference number for Mr and Mrs Ms account so couldnt be 
added. Mr and Mrs M checked NS&Is online banking facility in the days that followed and 
called it on 11 May 2022 when the funds werent showing in their account. NS&I said the 
funds hadnt been applied and that its agent called a back office team which advised the 
funds shouldve gone back on 9 May 2022, when they couldnt be applied to the account. 
NS&Is notes also say the account information it needed to return the funds was missing 
from the original CHAPS instruction it received.
Mr and Mrs M spoke with NS&I again on 13 May 2022 when the funds werent received back 
by their bank. A complaint was raised.
On 17 May 2022 NS&I advised Mr and Mrs M it was waiting for information from the issuing 
bank required to send the funds back. NS&I have said the sending banks account 
information was missing from the CHAPS instruction. But NS&I was able to send the funds 
back later that day.
NS&I responded to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and said the funds werent returned in line 
with its normal approach. NS&Is final response didnt say why the funds took so long to 
send back. NS&I apologised and sent Mr and Mrs M £130. NS&I also said that if 
Mr and Mrs M returned the funds it would backdate the interest to the date the payment was 
originally received.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In its file submission, 
NS&I says it shouldve been able to return the funds to Mr and Mrs Ms bank sooner. NS&I 
said it wanted to add a further offer of £118.36 in interest which covered the period between 
9 May 2022 and 17 May 2022. The investigator thought NS&I had dealt with the issues 
raised fairly and didnt ask it to take further action or increase the award.
Mr and Mrs M asked to appeal and said the compensation paid wasnt reasonable and failed 
to take into account the level of distress and inconvenience caused over an extended period. 
Mr and Mrs M also said NS&I had received the funds on 4 May 2022 and returned the 
payment on 17 May 2022, a period of 14 days. Mr and Mrs M said they thought NS&I should 
also pay 8% interest on the funds that were sent back, not the 1.2% the account wouldve 
paid. As Mr and Mrs M asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by noting Ive set out the background above in less detail than the parties 
involved. I want to assure Mr and Mrs M as well as NS&I that Ive read and considered all 
the available information, including the responses to the investigator. Im not going to 
comment on every point made and raised. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which 
reflects the informal nature of this service as an alternative to the courts.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning how to fairly resolve Mr and Mrs 
Ms complaint. But I havent been persuaded to award compensation in line in with Mr and 
Mrs Ms response to the investigator. Ill explain why.
The funds were delayed because the sending account details were missed. But NS&I has 
confirmed the information was available within the original payment instruction its bank 
received so it shouldve been possible to send the funds back sooner. I agree there was an 
avoidable delay in returning the funds to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M have told us they think interest should be paid from 4 May 2022 to the day the 
funds were returned, 17 May 2022. But I think its fair to note that the payment couldnt be 
applied to Mr and Mrs Ms account with NS&I as it was missing the reference number 
required. So there would always have been a delay to Mr and Mrs M receiving interest on 
their funds. In addition, the systems information Ive seen doesnt show NS&I or its bank 
received Mr and Mrs Ms funds on 4 May 2022. The systems information shows NS&Is bank 
received funds in the afternoon of 5 May 2022. And its confirmed the funds wouldve been
forwarded to it either on 5 May 2022 or the following day if the necessary reference had 
been included. I note NS&Is offer to refund interest from 9 May 2022. That date takes into 
account a weekend. NS&I says that, if everything had been processed correctly, thats the 
earliest point Mr and Mrs M wouldve received their funds.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms view that the funds shouldve been sent back on receipt. But I 
think its fair to say that even if the return account details had been located at the outset, the 
refund wouldve taken some time to arrange and process. NS&I says it aims to complete the 
process within three working days of receipt. Im satisfied that a period of three working days 
is a reasonable amount of time for NS&I to take to return the funds it received without a 
reference. Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied 9 May 2022 is reasonable date 
to use when calculating the interest. NS&I has calculated the interest to 17 May 2022  the 
date the funds were returned. Im satisfied thats a fair approach.
NS&Is final response offered to backdate interest if Mr and Mrs M decided to proceed. And 
in its file submission, NS&I said it wanted to offer £118.36 to reflect the interest Mr and Mrs 
M wouldve received during the period of the delay. Mr and Mrs M have told us they think we 
should use 8% interest on the award. But, here, we know what return Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve received on their funds if theyd been paid into the account as planned. There are 
circumstances where we will tell a business to pay 8% interest. However, in this case, Im 
satisfied a fairer approach that more accurately reflects Mr and Mrs Ms financial loss would
be to tell NS&I to use the interest rate that was payable on their account. I havent been 
persuaded to award 8% interest or increase the interest payment offered by NS&I.
NS&I offered Mr and Mrs M £130 to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ive reviewed the full circumstances of their complaint and agree that figure doesnt take into 
account everything that happened or the level of distress and inconvenience caused. The 
sums here were substantial and I think Mr and Mrs M shouldve been able to rely on NS&I and its agents to act without avoidable delays. Im satisfied there was a lack of clear 
guidance from NS&I on what was happening to a large amount of money and Im not 
persuaded £130 reflects the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Based on the 
information Ive seen, I intend to increase the award for Mr and Mrs M to £300. In my view, 
that figure more fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs 
M.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional information or comments they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. NS&I confirmed it was willing to proceed in 
line with my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs M responded but didnt accept and provided further context concerning the level 
of calls theyd had to make to NS&I to try and locate the missing funds. Mr and Mrs M also 
gave further comment concerning how NS&I had handled the transfer and the delays 
involved. Mr and Mrs M told us they didnt think £300 fairly reflected the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused. In addition, Mr and Mrs M highlighted information from our website 
that talks about awarding 8% interest and said they thought an award of that nature is 
appropriate in this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs M for the level of detail given in their response. Ive read and 
considered the additional points made, but I havent been persuaded to change the 
settlement I noted in my provisional decision. Im going to start by looking at the interest 
award. 
As I set out in the provisional decision, there was always going to be a delay (and degree of 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs M) because the transfer NS&I received from their bank didnt 
contain a valid reference. The funds were received by NS&I on 6 May 2022, a Friday, and 
the earliest N&SI says it couldve applied them to Mr and Mrs Ms account was 9 May 2022, 
the following Monday. Despite NS&I having to send the funds back to the issuing bank, its 
agreed to backdate the interest to 9 May 2022. Given there were issues with the transfer that 
were outside NS&Is control, Im satisfied its offer to backdate the interest to 9 May 2022 is 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs M have pointed to a section of our website that talks about awarding 8% interest. 
But there is other information for consumers on our website that talks about how we 
approach compensation for a financial loss. We dont award a standard 8% interest in all 
cases. Our approach is to try and put the consumer as closely as possible back into the 
position they wouldve been in had no errors been made. Here, had the transfer been made 
as intended, Mr and Mrs Ms funds wouldve been paid into their account on 9 May 2022 and 
NS&I wouldve paid interest at the rate payable from that date. So we know what Mr and Mrs 
M wouldve received. As we know what Mr and Mrs M wouldve received, Im satisfied 
awarding compensation that reflects their loss is the fairest approach. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs M, but Im satisfied the interest offer NS&I has made is fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs M have also highlighted the sorts of award we make to recognise the trouble and 
upset caused by a business mistake. Mr and Mrs M gave us details of the level of contact 
theyd made with NS&I as well as the assistance they received from their son. I can see that 
Mr and Mrs M contacted NS&I throughout the period in question and its contact notes reflect 
what theyve told us. I accept that Mr and Mrs M were frustrated and distressed by the lack 
of information concerning an important and substantial amount of money. Ive taken everything Mr and Mrs M have told us into account when deciding what I think is fair 
compensation for the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
Whilst I agree the original offer of £170 didnt go far enough, Im satisfied the increased 
settlement of £300 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr and Mrs M. Im very 
sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I havent been persuaded to increase the award 
further. In my view £300 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Having considered all the available information, I still think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should 
be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and direct National Savings and 
Investments to settle by paying them £118.36 plus £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman