DRN-4186516
The complaint
Ms D has complained about the level of service provided by U K Insurance Limited trading 
as Churchill (UKI) under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both Ms D and UKI so I wont repeat it here. 
Instead, Ill summarise my understanding and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Ms D held motor insurance with UKI. She complains they registered claims against her 
policy despite her never making a claim. And her premiums with UKI and future insurers 
were impacted. She says in 2020 a third-party collided with her vehicle and drove off. And 
despite paying for repairs to her vehicle herself, and UKI failing to obtain CCTV, theyve 
recorded a claim against her policy. And she was informed by UKI this would be wiped off 
her record, but that hasnt happened. She thinks UKI provided her with poor service and 
treated her unfairly. 
UKI say the 2020 claim was recorded as notification only given Ms D correctly reported the 
incident. And the claim remained open while they attempted to obtain CCTV  which 
impacted her renewal price  until Ms D requested the claim be closed and the premium 
reduced. They acknowledge an agent incorrectly told Ms D the claim would be wiped off her 
record. But they maintain theyve correctly recorded incidents on the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange database. And say these records could only be removed in instances such as 
mistaken identity, for example. 
Ms D complained to UKI, but they maintained their position. They say the information 
recorded for Ms Ds driving history is accurate, and theyre unable to control how other 
insurers use this information to price policies. Ms D remained unhappy and asked our 
Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. While he accepted UKI 
incorrectly informed Ms D a claim would be wiped, he thought the incidents were correctly 
recorded, and didnt think Ms D had been treated unfairly. 
Ms D didnt agree. She said, broadly, that UKI failed to obtain CCTV following the 2020 
incident, an insurer shouldnt be able to say something then retract it regarding wiping the 
incident, and shes been financially impacted having to pay for repairs to her vehicle, and her 
premiums impacted by UKIs failings. As she didnt agree, the case was passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
The policy says a policyholder must tell UKI about any incident which may lead to a claim. 
Its helpful to explain that the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) is a database for 
insurance incidents and claims. An insurer will make a record of any incident theyve been 
made aware of and whether it leads to a claim or not. And they have a duty to make 
accurate records. In this case, Ms D contacted UKI in 2020 to make them aware of an 
incident where a third-party caused damage to her vehicle and left the scene. 
The claim status remained open for a period while CCTV was attempted to be obtained. UKI 
say Ms D told them she would only make a claim if the third-party was established. Ive seen 
from the claim notes UKI attempted to contact the footage owner by email and phone, so I 
cant agree with Ms D that they failed to action this. The claim remained open while this 
happened, until it was closed as it impacted Ms Ds policy renewal price. Ms Ds no-claims 
discount was reinstated. 
I find the failing here was UKI informing Ms D because she wasnt making a claim, the 
incident would be wiped from the records. This was incorrect information because, as 
mentioned above, Ms D had made UKI aware of an incident. And although this didnt lead to 
a claim, UKI had a duty to make accurate records of incidents and claims. I note Ms D says 
in business, once a firm says something they shouldnt be able to retract that and have to 
stand by it. As such, she says UKI should wipe the 2020 record because they said they 
would. I disagree. If an insurer has made an error  such as they did here  Id expect them 
to put matters right. In this case, however, the error was in the communication and not the 
record of the 2020 incident. 
So, while I find Ms D would have experienced a loss of expectation here, Im not satisfied 
this has prejudiced her position. I say this because Im satisfied UKI fairly recorded Ms Ds 
driving history on CUE. It follows I dont find compensation is due here. 
The process an insurer will go through to rate the risk of a policy will differ. And its for an 
insurer to determine the risk and price they wish to charge for a policy. As such, although I 
acknowledge Ms D has told us about her premiums with other insurers have been impacted 
because of the information on CUE, Im unable to hold UKI responsible for this. 
In concluding, while I accept UKI could have handled matters better at times  and with a 
higher level of customer service  Im not satisfied UKI made any errors when recording 
incidents on CUE. And Im not persuaded based on the evidence that Ms Ds position has 
been prejudiced because of an error UKI made. So, I dont require UKI to take any action 
here. 
I acknowledge this wont be the outcome Ms D was hoping for, but this decision ends our 
Services involvement in attempting to informally resolve her dispute with UKI. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman