DRN-3444599
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the poor service she received from Scottish Widows Limited when 
updating her address details.
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs B completed a change of request online. No response was received so 
she sent another change of address request by post. Again, no response was received, so 
her representative sent another change of address request. As no responses were received 
to her requests, Mrs B complained to Scottish Widows.
In its response of 30 July 2021, Scottish Widows apologised for the poor customer service 
Mrs B had received. It said the first contact it had from her about the change of address was 
8 April 2021. And it arranged for her to be paid £250 for the delay in responding to her 
concerns, and for the distress and inconvenience she had suffered. It went on to say that no 
letters had been issued to her old address. 
Scottish Widows provided evidence to show that the address change had been made on 2 
August 2021. Mrs B responded to Scottish Widows letter and explained that she had moved 
again and asked for her records to be updated. She also explained that she had incurred 
solicitors costs of £240 in relation to the problems she had in changing her address, and 
Royal Mail redirection costs of £33.99. The letter she supplied from her solicitor dated 20 
July 2021 said:
To whom it may concern. We represent B in connection with legal matters. We confirm 
our hourly rate in relation to work carried out by a qualified solicitor is £200 plus VAT (£240). 
We trust this information is of assistance.
Scottish Widows updated Mrs Bs address again on 6 August 2021. It then wrote to her 
again. It agreed to pay the Royal Mail redirection costs. But it said it couldnt at that point pay 
the solicitors invoice as it didnt specifically evidence that she contacted the solicitor due to a 
lack of communication from it.
In response Mrs B said the invoice was dated 2 days after the Royal Mail redirection fee 
which supported that the invoice was in relation to that issue. She didnt want her solicitor to 
be contacted, as she would incur more charges.
Scottish Widows wrote to Mrs B again. It explained that the letter from the solicitor wasnt in 
its opinion an invoice, and it didnt evidence what legal matters she contacted them to 
discuss.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs concerns. He explained why he thought Scottish 
Widows offer was fair and why he wasnt going to ask it to cover legal costs. And he hadnt 
seen any evidence that correspondence had been sent to her old address.
In further exchanges of correspondence with the investigator, Mrs B explained why she 
didnt agree with the investigators assessment.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand given the concerns Mrs B has described about correspondence from 
Scottish Widows going to the wrong address, why she was worried and upset. Scottish 
Widows accepts that it provided Mrs B with poor customer service. And its paid her 
compensation to reflect that. I need to decide whether it has done enough to put things right 
for Mrs B. And having thought about everything Ive been given; I think it has. Ill explain 
why.
Im satisfied that Scottish Widows didnt deal with Mrs Bs change of address request in a 
reasonable period of time. Even if I were to accept what Scottish Widows has said about the 
first record it had of receiving Mrs Bs request to change her address on 8 April 2021, that 
request was only processed on 6 August 2021. That is far too long a period of time in my 
opinion for such a request to be actioned.
Scottish Widows has paid Mrs B a total of £250 for the inconvenience and distress shes 
been caused by the delays. And its paid the cost of the Royal Mail redirection service she 
paid for. Ive thought about what Mrs B has said regarding the impact this has all had on her. 
I accept she has found this all upsetting. But Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest that 
correspondence to her from Scottish Widows was sent to her old address. 
I cant make a punitive award against Scottish Widows. I simply dont have the power to do 
so and it isnt my role to make such an award. And having considered everything Ive been 
provided with; I think the payment of £250 Scottish Widows has made to Mrs B, is an 
appropriate sum to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
Ive also thought about the direct costs Mrs B says shes incurred. Scottish Widows has 
offered to pay the cost of the Royal Mail redirection service and I think its right that it has 
done so. Mrs B also wants it to pay the cost of her having to consult with a solicitor regarding 
this issue. Shes provided what she says is an invoice from the solicitor for work done in 
relation to this issue.
I dont disbelief what Mrs B has said. And I know she will be disappointed with my finding on 
this point, but I dont have sufficient evidence to be able to safely say that what she has 
provided from her solicitor, is evidence of an invoice in respect of legal costs she has had to 
incur in respect of this issue with Scottish Widows. 
I say this because in my opinion the letter from the solicitor isnt an invoice. It simply records 
that the solicitor firm acts for Mrs B in relation to legal matters and sets out what its hourly 
charge out rate is for a qualified solicitor. It doesnt record what work has been done and in 
respect of what. Ive thought about what Mrs B has said concerning the proximity of the letter 
to the Royal Mail redirection, but that doesnt change my opinion for the reasons Ive set out 
above.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 June 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman