DRN-3424785
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc continued to contact him about a debt that had 
been included in a Debt Relieve Order (DRO).
What happened
Mr H says a debt he owed to Sainsburys was included in a DRO in 2017. He says 
Sainsburys continued to contact him for the balance and sold the debt to a different 
business. Mr H says he has existing health issues which were exasperated by Sainsburys 
actions and would like it to stop contact with him. He would also like £10,000 compensation 
and says his credit file has been affected. Mr H says he has spent some time trying to speak 
to Sainsburys about this and says a debt collector attended his property. 
Sainsburys accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It says it has updated its records 
and Mr Hs credit file. It has also offered Mr H £500 compensation for what took place.
Mr H had brought his complaint to us and says Sainsburys is discriminating against him as it 
says he had pre-existing health issues. Our investigator accepted Sainsburys had made 
mistakes but thought the compensation offer appropriate.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and maintains he should receive £10,000 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Sainsburys has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Sainsburys made a mistake about what ought to have been a 
straightforward matter of updating its records when Mr Hs debt was included in the DRO. I 
have no doubt Mr H was caused frustration and inconvenience in telling Sainsburys and the 
other business that the debt was part of the DRO. And that he should not be asked to repay 
it. I have no doubt Mr H was caused distress as well as inconvenience and accept this issue 
went on for some time. I also accept that Mr Hs credit file did not have correct information 
on it and Mr H had health issues.
The only issue for me to consider is the compensation amount. It may be helpful to Mr H if I 
explain that we are not Sainsburys regulator and so its not our role to punish a business. 
We also publish information on our website about the types and amount of awards we make 
and have to be consistent in our compensation awards. Im satisfied that Mr H didnt suffer 
any financial loss that I have seen evidence of as a result of what took place and am 
satisfied that Sainsburys has fairly apologised for what took place. I can see that it has 
updated Mr Hs credit file as well as its own records. So, Im satisfied there should no longer 
be any further contact by it about the debt.
I have made clear that I accept Mr H suffered a considerable level of stress and 
inconvenience. But Im satisfied Sainsburys compensation offer is fair and reasonable and is 
in line with the type of award we would order for this type of mistake and impact. I appreciate 
Mr H says Sainsburys has discriminated against him by suggesting his health issues are 
pre-existing. I make clear that it would be for a court to decide if any discrimination rules are 
broken and further make clear I have accepted that Sainsburys mistake had a greater 
impact on Mr H due to his medical position.
Overall, I find that Sainsburys compensation is fair and reasonable and in line with our 
awards. I cant fairly order Sainsburys pay the £10,000 compensation Mr H would like and 
appreciate he may not wish to accept my decision. If Mr H does wish to accept the offer, 
then it would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Putting things right
Sainsburys should pay Mr H £500 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Sainsbury's Bank Plc to pay Mr H 
£500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman