DRN-4233684
The complaint
Mr M complains because a Society of Lloyds syndicate declined his claims under his 
absence insurance policy. 
All references to Society of Lloyds include the scheme administrators named in the policy 
terms and conditions as being appointed to deal with claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr M held an absence insurance policy (also marketed as locum insurance), with the
benefits provided by Society of Lloyds. Mr M was sold the policy in 2015 by, and the policy
subsequently renewed through, a broker who Ill call P.
Mr M says he has always been a self-employed partner in a medical practice. In October
2018, Mr M took 24-hour retirement but continued to work at the practice. In March 2020, Mr
M left the practice and intended to work as a locum. However, as Mr M received a Covid-19
shielding letter, this didnt happen.
In August 2020, Mr M asked P whether he could claim under the policy as he was unable to
work because he was shielding. P said this wasnt something that was covered under the
policy.
In October 2020, Mr M told P he was unable to work because of an exacerbation of Crohns
disease the previous month. Mr M completed a claim form, which P sent to Society of
Lloyds in January 2021. In February 2021, Society of Lloyds wrote to Mr Ms GP to ask
about Mr Ms medical history. Society of Lloyds also asked Mr M for evidence of his
earnings in the 12 months leading up to his inability to work due to Crohns. Society of 
Lloyds chased Mr Ms GP for the information it had requested several times but, ultimately, 
this was never received. In July 2021, Society of Lloyds asked Mr M for confirmation of his
employment details. Mr M said he had already sent this to Society of Lloyds in February
2021. In September 2021, Mr M sent Society of Lloyds a letter outlining his employment
history.
On 24 September 2021, Society of Lloyds wrote to Mr M and said his claim wasnt covered
because he hadnt been working since April 2020.
Unhappy, Mr M complained to both P and to Society of Lloyds.
Society of Lloyds sent Mr M a first response to his complaint on 23 November 2021. It said
Mr Ms claim for shielding wasnt covered under his policy, and his claim for inability to work
due to Crohns wasnt either. Society of Lloyds refunded the premiums which Mr M had paid
for the policy between 1 April 2020 and 29 October 2020. Society of Lloyds sent Mr M a final
response letter in September 2022. It said Mr Ms policy should have been amended when
he retired from the medical practice but, despite this, it had considered his claim. Society of
Lloyds maintained its position that the claim relating to Crohns wasnt covered but paid Mr
M £350 compensation for its delays and communication failings.
As Mr M remained unhappy, he brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our
investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Society of Lloyds had
acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Ms claims. She said she thought the £350
compensation which Society of Lloyds had paid was fair and reasonable for the trouble and
upset Mr M experienced.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators opinion so the complaint was referred to me. I made 
my provisional decision about the complaint in June 2023. In it, I said:
When making this provisional decision, I can only comment on the regulated activities that
Society of Lloyds is responsible for. These are the decision to decline Mr Ms claim and the
delays in doing so.
P is a different financial business to Society of Lloyds and is regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority in its own right. Society of Lloyds isnt responsible for anything P did. So,
if Mr M is unhappy with how this policy was sold or renewed, with any of the information
given to him by P or with Ps delays, then hed need to bring a separate complaint to our
service about P. If Mr M wishes to do this then he should let our investigator know when
responding to my provisional decision.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly,
provide appropriate information on the progress of a claim and shouldnt unreasonably reject
a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my provisional decision.
I understand Society of Lloyds says the purpose of this insurance is to provide benefits to a
medical practice if Mr M was unable to work. And the policy does say this is the aim.
However, as Mr M has correctly pointed out, the policy is held in his own name. According to
the 2019 policy schedule, Mr M is both the insured and the insured person. So, any benefit
due under the contract of insurance would be payable to Mr M as the insured.
But I dont think any benefit is due to Mr M, as I dont think either of his claims are covered
under his policy.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy provide for payment of a weekly benefit (after a
deferred period) if an insured person is totally unable to carry out their usual occupation due
to illness or accidental bodily injury.
I understand Mr M says shielding isnt mentioned in his policy. It doesnt need to be. Its not
possible for a policy to list every risk that is and isnt covered. I dont think isolating to
prevent or reduce the risk of contracting Covid-19 (even if an existing illness is the reason
why isolation is advised) can fairly be categorised as an illness (or an accidental bodily
injury) which this policy covers. The fact that some employers may have paid employees
sick pay for shielding and/or that another of Mr Ms insurance policies may have covered a
claim for shielding isnt relevant to my decision about whether I think Society of Lloyds
needs to pay Mr Ms claim under this policy. Mr Ms other insurance policy may have
different terms and conditions and/or the other insurer may have chosen to honour claims for
shielding as a commercial decision. The terms and conditions of Mr Ms contract with
Society of Lloyds set out its obligations to Mr M, and I dont think a claim for shielding is
covered.
Mr M didnt have a usual occupation at the time he became unable to work due to Crohns.
He wasnt working at the time and therefore had no income at the time for this policy to
protect. This means Mr Ms second claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of his
policy either  regardless of the reason why he wasnt working or what his intentions were
when he left the medical practice in March 2020. I understand Mr Ms accountant hasconfirmed his earnings for the 12 months up to the point he became unable to work due to
Crohns and Mr M wants Society of Lloyds to pay him a percentage of these earnings, but
this isnt how the policy operates. The policy pays a weekly benefit in respect of each
complete week that Mr M would ordinarily have worked were it not for his incapacity. The
policy has no provision for the payment of a claim based on historic earnings or loss of
income which was envisaged but never earned.
So, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I dont think either of his claims are covered under his
policy. I think the position Society of Lloyds took in giving Mr M a refund of premiums from 1
April 2020 to 29 October 2020 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Society of Lloyds isnt responsible for any delays by P in sending information to it. Society of
Lloyds also isnt responsible for Mr Ms GPs failure to respond. However, even leaving
these issues aside, I dont think Society of Lloyds handled Mr Ms second claim within a
reasonable timeframe and I dont think Society of Lloyds communicated with Mr M as clearly
as it could have about what information it needed and why. Society of Lloyds has
acknowledged these issues and has paid Mr M £350 compensation. Ive taken into account
our published guidance on the payment of compensation for distress and inconvenience and
Im satisfied that a payment of £350 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the
impact of Society of Lloyds actions on Mr M.
Mr M didnt respond to my provisional decision. Society of Lloyds replied and said it agreed 
with the outcome Id reached. However, Society of Lloyds said my statement that Mr M was 
both the insured and the insured person under this policy was factually incorrect. Society 
of Lloyds said the absence insurance proposal form, of which it provided me with a copy, 
stated that the proposer was Mr Ms practice, at the practice address. Society of Lloyds said 
the insured noted on the policy schedule was therefore Mr M in his capacity at the practice, 
at the practice address. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Society of Lloyds has said about the insured and the insured person, but I 
dont agree with its submissions that Ive made a factual inaccuracy in my provisional 
decision. While its clear from the new evidence which Society of Lloyds has now provided 
(the absence insurance proposal form) that the proposer of the insurance was Mr Ms 
practice, I still dont think its clear from the 2019 insurance policy schedule that any benefits 
would be payable to the practice rather than to Mr M directly. 
But, in any event, and regardless of why Society of Lloyds agreed to consider Mr Ms 
claims, I dont think the claims are covered under this policy for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. So, I wont be directing Society of Lloyds to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman