DRN-3592619
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with how HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) handled his claim against an 
investment company, E, whos services hes dissatisfied with.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Mr I had been using a trading platform run by E, funded by payments from his HSBC 
account. But he then found out E no longer had authority to operate in the UK. He says he 
wasnt able to get his money back from E directly. So in late 2020, he contacted HSBC to 
raise a claim, submitting information about his dispute with E.
Ive seen that HSBC issued its final response in September 2020 explaining it couldnt 
proceed with the information provided. But it then issued an updated final response in 
March 2021 which said the outcome of his claim hadnt been determined yet. It also paid 
Mr I £250 compensation for how things had been handled. 
Unhappy with this, Mr I referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
it. They thought HSBC had no reason to block the payments at the time, and that a 
chargeback claim wouldnt have succeeded. They also thought the compensation was fair 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by HSBCs handling of the claim. 
Mr I didnt agree that the compensation adequately accounted for all the delays, nor the 
impact this had on him. Hes unhappy with Es service  and that HSBC didnt do more to get 
his money back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
To start, Ive considered if HSBC should have processed these payments at all. In 
line with the relevant regulations, it should process authorised payment instructions 
without undue delay. That has to be balanced against its duties to help protect 
customers from financial harm from fraud. If E were a scam, and HSBC ought to 
have identified that Mr I was at risk, then Id generally expect it to have intervened 
with the payments. But I wouldnt expect it to intervene if E werent a scam  or if 
HSBC didnt have reasonable cause to be suspicious of the payments.
E were regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySec). And 
they had passporting rights to operate under that authorisation in the UK. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was Es host regulator; E appeared on the FCA 
register. It would be unusual for a scammer to comply with all the various 
requirements of becoming regulated. It also means Mr I may have recourse against E 
directly, or through the Cypriot Financial Ombudsman scheme. 
 
Theres a high legal threshold for fraud. It wouldnt necessarily be enough that E 
were promoting high-risk investments using methods that were arguably unethical 
and/or misleading. Overall, Im not persuaded theres enough to show E were 
running a scam at the time of these payments. So I dont consider there to have been 
an obligation on HSBC to have intervened with the payments Mr I requested. 
However, it seems the crux of Mr Is concerns relate to HSBCs actions after he 
reported his dispute. As these were VISA card payments, they were covered by the 
chargeback scheme, which offers (limited) recourse for settlement disputes. Its a 
voluntary scheme, so banks arent obliged to raise chargeback claims. But Id 
consider it good practice to do so if the claim was likely to succeed. This is 
determined by the scheme rules, set by VISA rather than HSBC. 
In Mr Is instance, it doesnt appear that he had sufficient evidence for a chargeback 
claim. In line with VISAs rules, he would have needed evidence of his withdrawal 
requests being declined, along with evidence that he had the available funds to 
withdraw dated to match his request. He would also need evidence that he tried to 
resolve things with E  and cancelled their services if that was unsuccessful. As Mr I 
hasnt provided this information, Im not persuaded HSBC missed an opportunity to 
retrieve his funds. Id also note that the claim would be limited to the lower of the 
available balance or what Mr I paid in. There are also time limits for such claims.
That said, HSBC has admitted failings in how it handled his claim. I thank Mr I for 
sharing details about the impact this had on him. When considering if the 
compensation is fair, Id stress that I need to separate the service issues from the 
actual claim outcome  as Ive not found grounds to hold HSBC liable for his loss. 
And that is ultimately the main cause of his dissatisfaction. Similarly, Im not 
considering whether E did anything wrong. Im considering whether HSBC made any 
mistakes, and if so, whether its done enough to put these right. 
I think HSBCs communication could have been better. It ought to have given Mr I a 
clearer answer sooner. In line with our services approach to this type of 
compensation, Im satisfied the £250 HSBC has already paid is a fair reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience its poor communication caused Mr I  given that Ive not 
found he was entitled to a refund from HSBC. This would always have been a 
disappointing outcome for him, but I accept it would have been less distressing if 
HSBC had communicated better. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr I was hoping for. But, as outlined above, I havent 
found that HSBC contributed to the money he lost to E. And Im satisfied its fairly 
compensated him for the service issues. So Im not awarding anything further.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman