DRN-1829482
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the service she received from Nationwide Building Society when she 
asked for her credit card balance.
What happened
Mrs A has a credit card account with Nationwide. In December 2019 she made a call to find 
out what her outstanding balance would be. Mrs A also asked Nationwide to calculate her 
balance after some refunds had cleared. Nationwide did this but Mrs A felt the figures were 
incorrect.
Mrs A had to call back a few times and was told different figures. She complained about this 
and felt the staff she had spoken to had been rude and condescending. Nationwide upheld 
Mrs As complaint. It admitted that errors had been made when it gave the figures to Mrs A. 
It also felt one of the calls could have been handled better. It paid Mrs A £175 compensation.
Our investigator felt this compensation was fair. She explained that whilst Nationwide hasnt 
been able to provide the call recordings, she has looked at the call notes and can see that 
there were errors made. But she also explained that Mrs A was asking the advisors to 
calculate her balance based on transactions that hadnt yet cleared. And that mistakes do 
happen. The investigator also explained that the errors hadnt impacted Mrs As ability to 
make her repayment. So, she felt the compensation awarded was fair for the impact the 
errors caused.
Mrs A disagreed. She says she was advised to call in before her payments were due so she 
could make sure she had enough to cover her direct debit  after all the transactions had 
cleared. And she felt the advisor at Nationwide was rude when she did this. She feels £175 
doesnt compensate her for these errors so asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there have been mistakes made here, and Nationwide has accepted this. It has 
said that it did give Mrs A incorrect figures on some calls, and that one of its advisors 
couldve done better on a call. So, Ive considered whether the compensation it has given 
Mrs A is reasonable. I think that it is, so Ill explain why.
When Mrs A called Nationwide, she asked for her balance to be calculated after she gave 
them details of purchases shed returned for refunds. These transactions hadnt cleared on 
her credit card statement yet, so it wasnt coming up on the system. I can see that 
Nationwide advisor tried to calculate the balance taking on board the information Mrs A was 
giving them. But, as Mrs A was asking for manual calculations to be carried out, I can see 
why a mistake could happen. And it did as the manual calculations left room for human error. 
If Nationwide wasnt able to make these calculations for Mrs A, I think it couldve told her. But I can see one on occasion the advisor asked Mrs A what she wanted to calculate, as 
they were finding it confusing. 
The difference in the correct figure and the incorrect figure was around £20  and this was a 
fraction of the amount of the transactions that hadnt yet cleared. So, I dont think the error 
caused Mrs A a substantial impact. I can also see that Nationwide apologised for its error, 
and that Mrs A managed to make her payment after the transactions had cleared. So, I dont 
think Mrs A has been caused any financial loss by the errors made.
Mrs A has told us that Nationwides advisors spoke to her in a rude and condescending way. 
Ive not been able to listen to the calls, but I have seen a transcript and its clear in some 
calls that both parties were getting frustrated. And Nationwide has apologised for the way 
one of its advisors handled the call. I can see that Mrs A was talked over during this call. I 
think some of the frustration came out from the advisors attempting to do manual 
calculations based on the information Mrs A was giving them about transactions that hadnt 
yet cleared. And it appears Nationwide tried to get the right answers for Mrs A during these 
calls, to keep her informed of her balance  even though the transactions hadnt completed 
in the system.
When looking at the transcripts and the situation as a whole, I think that Nationwide has 
done enough to put things right. It has paid Mrs A £175 compensation for its errors here and 
I think this is reasonable for the mistakes it made in calculations, and the way the calls were 
handled. So, Im not asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as Nationwide Building Society has already paid Mrs A 
reasonable compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman