DRN-2495434
The complaint
Miss A has complained that TSB Bank plc wont remove a default from her credit reference 
files.
What happened
Miss A added her ex partner to her current account in April 2016. She said hed coerced her
into make her sole account a joint one. She said he then took control of the account and ran 
up debts. In January 2018, Miss A obtained a restraining order against him. She said she 
told a local branch about the restraining order in July 2018 and asked the bank to remove 
him from the account, but it didnt do this.
By September 2018, the account had exceeded the arranged overdraft limit. TSB passed the
account to its collections department. As the bank had received no response to its formal
demands for payment or notices of arrears, it sent the account to its recoveries team. In
January 2019, TSB registered a default in the credit reference files for Miss A and her ex 
partner.
Miss A complained to TSB. She said it hadnt told her it was going to register a default. She
said the default stopped her from opening a new account and she couldnt start her new
business. Consequently, she lost a business opportunity worth £250,000. She asked it to
remove the default and compensate her for her loss.
She also complained that:
TSB had allowed her ex partner to change the account into his sole name
it had provided him with bank statements before hed been added to the account
the local branch advised her to let the account fall into arrears
it didnt remove her ex partner from the account in July 2018.
TSB looked into her complaint. It discovered that it had sent the formal demands for
payment and the default notices to her ex partner, but not her. It rectified its mistake by 
taking back the account from its recoveries team. It updated her address and arranged for 
the default to be removed from her credit file. It reissued the default letter and formal 
demand for payment and told her she could repay the debt by instalments or in a single 
payment. It also paid her £375 in compensation. It didnt uphold her other complaints.
Miss A wasnt happy with TSBs decision, so she brought her complaint to this service. She
said the default was still showing on her credit reference files.
An investigator looked into her complaint and recommended that TSB remove the default
which it had registered in January 2019. She didnt uphold Miss As other complaints.
TSB didnt agree with the investigators view. It said it had removed the default temporarily 
but because Miss A hadnt settled the debt, which remained outstanding, the default was
registered again.
The case was referred to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
I completed a provisional decision on 18 November 2020. I concluded that, as the debt 
remained outstanding, TSB were entitled to leave the default on Miss As credit reference 
files. I didnt uphold Miss As other complaints as they were largely unsupported by the 
evidence and there was no evidence that shed been affected by TSBs decision not to 
remove her ex partner from the account.
Miss A has not responded to my provisional decision, despite being granted extra time.
This case has now come back to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid my decision remains the same. I dont consider there are any 
reasons why I should ask TSB to remove the default from Miss As credit files, if the debt 
remains outstanding.
The default letter and formal demand for payment were re issued on 31 March 2020. The
new letters told Miss A she could repay the debt in a single payment or by instalments. She
confirmed she received those letters. Miss A told our investigator she is willing to clear the 
debt herself. I understand she isnt waiting for her ex partner to pay half of it. She said she 
can pay it off. But she hasnt done this yet. And as she didnt make any repayments by the 
deadline given in the letters, TSB was entitled to register the default again. TSB also said 
that as long as the debt remains unpaid, the default automatically keeps re-reporting each 
month.
In these circumstances, I think TSB has acted fairly and reasonably with regards to the
default. I wont be asking it to remove it. 
I appreciate Miss A said she was waiting for an ombudsmans final decision. However, the
amount was never in dispute. She didnt ask this service to determine how much she should
repay. I dont know why she hasnt paid some or all of it. But I also understand that the last 
12 months have been exceptionally difficult for consumers and especially the self-employed.
TSB said once she pays off some or all the debt it will remove the default, although it is 
obliged to record information about the arrears. In the meantime, if Miss A cant now pay off 
the overdraft because of the coronavirus, then I would expect TSB to talk to her about what 
support it can give her.
In relation to the lost business opportunity, Miss A hasnt provided any evidence that the
default was the sole reason why she couldnt open another business account. It might have 
been a factor, but I think its unlikely it was the only reason. And besides, the fact remains 
that she and her ex partner owe the bank money. So, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold TSB responsible for her not being able to open another account.
Financial abuse and coercion
Miss A didnt disagree with our investigators decision not to uphold her other complaints. I 
also agreed with the investigators conclusions. TSB has shown it didnt send the ex partner any statements before he was added to the
account. And it said Miss A had signed the relevant forms adding him to the account and, 
therefore, it had no reason to suspect coercion.
TSB also said Miss A didnt tell it about the restraining order in July 2018. She only said she 
was going through a separation from him. There was a six months interval between the date 
of the order and her complaint to the bank about her partner. The interval suggests she 
wasnt too worried about her account at the time. However, having recently got the order, I 
think its more likely than not she wouldve mentioned it when she went into the local branch 
in July 2018.
There is now a greater awareness of financial or economic abuse and banks are
encouraged to help victims regain more control over their finances. Our investigator referred
to the industry guidance in her view. And removing an abusive partner from an account may
be an appropriate action in some circumstances. TSB didnt do this. I think TSB shouldve
done more to listen to her concerns. Had it done so, it might have decided to remove her ex 
partner from the account in July 2018. But Im afraid I dont think she was financially worse 
off because it didnt do this. Ill explain why.
By April 2016, the account was overdrawn by £867. The account continued to be in and out
of an overdraft until it exceeded the arranged overdraft limit and was passed to the
collections team in September 2018. Most of the expenses on the account were for rent and 
household expenses. Miss A confirmed the tenancy agreement and household bills were in 
her sole name. There are a few payments to the ex partner, but these are for comparatively 
small amounts of £20 to £50. From July 2018, there are a couple of cash withdrawals, which 
might have been made by the ex partner. Ive no way of knowing who made them and Miss 
A hasnt identified which transactions were made by him. All other transactions in 2018 are 
direct debit payments, which I assume she had set up. They seem to be payments to a 
credit card account. Again, I dont know whose card that was. There were no transactions in 
2019.
I dont doubt that the ex partner was abusive towards Miss A. This was proven by the
restraining order. It must have been distressing and frightening for her and Im very sorry she 
experienced this ordeal. But Im afraid I cant see any evidence from the statements that the 
ex partner was solely responsible for the debt, or that he exerted financial control or coercion 
over the account. And I cant see that Miss A suffered any financial losses or hardship as a 
direct result of his name remaining on the account after July 2018.
Ive also considered whether the staff member in the local branch misled into Miss A into 
letting the account go into arrears so that she could get help with her situation.  TSB said 
this isnt advice it would give a customer because of the impact on the credit reference files. I 
agree it would be unusual for a bank to give this advice officially. The account was already in 
arrears and looking at the statements it doesnt seem that Miss A acted on this advice 
anyway. Apart from two cash withdrawals, most of the transactions from July 2018 were the 
existing direct debit payments.
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Miss A was hoping for. I realise she hasnt responded to my 
provisional decision. Ive carefully considered her requests for extra time. I understand she 
has found it difficult to prioritise this complaint while caring for her children during periods of 
self-isolation and lockdown and while trying to work. I recognise these are unprecedented 
times and sympathise with her situation. Ive taken that into account and allowed her two 
extensions of time. However, having regard to the facts and that Miss A previously agreed to 
settle the debt, I think its unlikely she will have any new information which will make a material difference to the outcome. And its in her best interests for this dispute to be 
resolved. So, for these reasons, Ive decided to issue my final decision.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Miss A. I hope the reasons for my decision are
clear and that she is now able to rebuild her life.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman