DRN-4072386
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) refused to 
complete a direct debit indemnity on all direct debit transactions for service payments to a 
third party since April 2019. They are also unhappy about the customer service received 
regarding this issue.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a direct debit (DD) mandate with Halifax that had been running for a 
number of years. The regular monthly payment amount of the DD has varied by a small 
amount since they began. Mr D raised a direct debit indemnity (DDI) claim regarding this 
direct debit payment since it began. Halifax accepted the DDI claim for the December 
payment of £120 as it could see two payments were taken instead of one.
Mr D wished to raise a dispute under the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme regarding the 
amount of the DD payment collected since April 2019. Mr D was unable to confirm how 
much the DD should be for, but confirmed it was for a service he was invoiced for and that 
he was happy to pay for. 
Halifax told Mr D that he needs to discuss this with the beneficiary of the payment. Mr D 
says he has tried emailing it but hasnt receive a response. Halifax believes this to be a 
dispute that needs to be resolved with the beneficiary/originator of the DD payment and not 
something that falls within the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme.
Mr and Mrs D complained that Halifax refused to complete a DDI  they believe that the 
scheme entitles them to the right to reclaim all these payments under the schemes rules 
without question. Halifax says it needed to ask for further information to ensure that Mr and 
Mrs Ds claim falls under the scheme.
Mr and Mrs D complained further that Halifax had incorrectly concluded in its final response 
letter that the DDI refund payment of £120 was because a duplicate of the payment was 
taken in December. Mr and Mrs D say the DDI related to them not accepting the amount 
they were being charged and not this one payment. 
Halifax accepted that there had been some inaccuracies and compensated them £80 for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused and confirmed that their claim for the last four years 
over the value of the DD payments is not accepted as it doesnt meet eligible claim criteria 
as there hadnt been an error in the collection of the direct debit.
Mr and Mrs D were dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into their concerns but didnt think Halifax had treated them 
unfairly. Given the time that had passed since the DD had been in place, they thought it fair 
for Halifax to request further information surrounding the DD dispute before processing the 
DDI without question. Furthermore, they hadnt seen enough evidence to show Halifax had 
misinformed Mr D regarding the indemnity claim.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They say if the partial refund has been upheld for the correct 
reasons, then it must adhere to the full claim period and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint. 
I hope that Mr and Mrs D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  that Halifax refused to submit a direct debit 
indemnity on all payments requested by DD since 2019. Our rules allow me to do that.
My role is to look at the problems Mr and Mrs D have experienced and see if Halifax has 
done anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr 
and Mrs D back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I 
may award compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
As outline about Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Halifax refused to process a refund of all 
DD payments made since 2019 under the direct debit guarantee.  
It might be helpful here to explain that the direct debit guarantee entitles account holders to 
receive an immediate refund from their bank in certain circumstances such as when the 
payment taken is on the incorrect date or the wrong amount is collected. And it can not be 
used to address contractual disputes between the customer and the billing organisation. 
The purpose of this guarantee is to protect customers whove allowed third-party permission 
to take payments directly from their account. If a payment error is made  either by the bank 
or by the business collecting the payment (the originator)  then they should be able to get 
an immediate refund from the bank. And the bank will get repaid by the originator under the 
direct debit indemnity.
So the question I have to ask is whether Halifax has done anything wrong or treated Mr and 
Mrs D unfairly by not submitting a direct debit indemnity claim when Mr D asked it to.
And I dont think Halifax did treat Mr and Mrs D unfairly - as it wasnt able to establish from 
the information it had whether there had been a payment error. Indeed, Mr D agreed he was 
happy to pay for the service he was receiving but wasnt able to say how much the direct 
debit payment was meant to be or that an error had been made.  So I dont think it was 
unreasonable or unfair of Halifax to seek further information to ensure the scheme was being 
used for its intended purpose or for declining to process the DDI on the basis that it didnt 
think the eligibility criteria. 
Mr and Mrs D say that if a partial refund has been upheld for the correct reasons, then it 
must adhere to the full claim period. But from the evidence Ive seen, the initial refund was provided because it appeared there had been an error in that a singular DD payment had 
been taken twice  rather than all the payments under the mandate had been taken in error. 
So again, I dont think Halifax has made an error or treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly by not 
agreeing to process the DDI based on the information it had. Furthermore, although there 
may be some evidence of confusion surrounding the finer points of Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint, I havent seen anything to persuade me that this warrants further compensation 
above what Halifax have already provided. 
So it follows, that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman