DRN-3932748
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as E complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance 
Ltd turned down a claim on its commercial vehicle fleet insurance policy and cancelled the 
policy.
Mr A, a director of E, has complained on Es behalf.
What happened
E is a car rental business who hired a car to a customer, who Ill refer to as H. H paid cash 
for the deposit and the hire. While the car was in the possession of H it was stolen and 
involved in a crash with a third party. 
Berkshire reviewed the claim. It then declined the claim and cancelled the policy providing 
seven days written notice. Berkshire said this was because the policy didnt allow for cars to 
be hired in cash without prior authorisation. It said because of this E had breached the terms 
of the policy and so it was allowed the cancel the policy giving seven days notice. Berkshire 
said there would be a pro rata refund applied but said it would retain this to cover some of 
the claim costs. 
E didnt think this was fair and complained. It said the declined claim meant it had been 
financially affected by not having the settlement for its car. Because of this, E said it was 
also losing money by not having the car hired to other customers. Berkshire reviewed the 
complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. E didnt agree and referred its 
complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
Berkshire had acted fairly under the terms of the policy and so didnt recommended 
Berkshire do anything different. E didnt agree, it said it didnt think the claim would have 
been more likely just because the car had been hired in cash. It also said the deposit had 
been paid for by a debit card. E also referred to a similar complaint it had which had been 
found in its favour by our service. 
As E didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Es policy says:
G.      Payment for all hires must be by credit or debit card other than 
where your vehicle is being hired under a credit hire contract. We may, 
on request, give authorisation for a hirer to pay part of the hire cost in 
cash but only if the full deposit is paid for by credit or debit card. 
The policy goes onto say under the exclusions for self hire section:
No cover will be provided under this section for:
1. The hire of any self drive hire vehicle:
a) Paid for in cash other than as specifically allowed for under 
Conditions and clause G above;
When Berkshire looked into the claim it interviewed E and H. The witness statement for the 
interview with E says:
15) He paid a £500 deposit in cash for the hire and the actual cost of 
the hire for seven (7) days was £350 which was again paid in cash.
The witness statement goes onto say: 
32) Under the terms of hire, [H] has to pay the excess in the event of an 
accident. This excess is £5,000 and he has paid this in cash.
In response to our investigators findings E has now said the deposit was paid for by debit 
card. This clearly isnt consistent with the witness statement provided. However, Im not 
persuaded it makes a difference. I say that because even if the deposit was paid by debit 
card, the terms and conditions of the policy say Berkshire may upon request give its 
permission for a hirer to pay part of the costs in cash. This request was never made to 
Berkshire and so Im satisfied E breached the terms of the policy by allowing H to pay for 
the rental in cash.
I understand E said it doesnt think paying in cash makes a difference, but its for E to show 
that non-compliance of the term could not have increased the risk of the loss which 
occurred in the circumstances that occurred. Berkshire has said cash hires increase the risk 
and is the reason it doesnt generally allow them. Im not satisfied E has shown this isnt the 
case here and so Im not going to interfere with Berkshires decision to decline the claim.   
When Berkshire found out E was allowing rentals in breach of the terms of the policy, it 
decided to cancel the policy by giving seven days notice, as stated in the policy terms and 
conditions. As Berkshire notified E of the cancellation in line with the terms and conditions, 
Im satisfied it acted fairly and reasonably in doing so. 
I can also see Berkshire has said E would get a pro rata refund when it makes the decision 
to cancel. As there is an outstanding claim on the policy Berkshire said it hasnt refunded 
this to E as it intends to offset it against the third party claim costs it will have to pay. As 
there is an outstanding balance which E would be required to pay Im therefore not going to 
interfere with Berkshires decision to retain the pro rata refund of premium in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman