DRN-3051938
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs N complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) did not process their mortgage 
application.  
What happened
In February 2021, Mr N and Mrs N contacted Lloyds to say they wanted to borrow more 
money to buy a second home  which was going to an auction on 18 March 2021. They 
wanted to bid up to £250,000 and needed to borrow £150,000 to do this. 
On 1 March 2021, they had a telephone meeting with Lloyds mortgage adviser, and they 
discussed the possibility of arranging a mortgage on the proposed second home. But at the 
end of the meeting, they decided to look at borrowing the money as a further advance on 
their main residential property. 
There was a further call on 4 March 2021 where an application was started. During that 
meeting, it was discovered that their main house was wrongly designated as their second 
home, and this restricted the loan to value (LTV) ratio to 75% - which meant they couldnt 
borrow enough to buy the property. The mortgage advisor said she would need to get the 
marker removed and then progress the application  and call them back. There wasnt any 
further contact from Lloyds. Mr N and Mrs N tried to contact the mortgage adviser on 15 
March 2021, and again on 17 March 2021, but couldnt get hold of her. They called Lloyds 
main number later the same day and found out that the mortgage adviser had been taken ill 
shortly after the meeting on 4 March 2021. The application hadnt been progressed, and the 
second home marker was still showing.
Mr N and Mrs N complained. They said even though the mortgage adviser had been taken 
ill, her work shouldve been picked up and dealt with. Because it hadnt been, they lost the 
chance of buying their dream home. The second home marker shouldve been removed as 
the mortgage adviser had promised, and the application shouldve been taken forward. By 
the time they managed to contact someone in Lloyds  on 17 March 2021, it was too late to 
have a mortgage agreed, as the auction was taking place the following day. They said they 
raised money from their savings and their family, but this meant they could only bid up to 
£200,000. They said the property was sold for £202,000  so they couldve bought it if theyd 
had the mortgage offer from Lloyds. 
They said theyd suffered a lot of stress because of what happened and incurred a lot of 
expenses such as travel, hotel expenses, and work involved with scoping out the 
improvements needed to the property. They said that the further advance on their mortgage 
shouldnt have been a problem, as Lloyds later agreed to lend more than what they needed 
anyway  for another purpose.
Lloyds apologised for the poor service theyd given. The mortgage advisers work shouldve 
been covered by someone else, but it wasnt. They offered compensation of £300 for this but 
didnt accept responsibility for Mr N and Mrs N missing out on the purchase of the second 
home. They couldve called Lloyds earlier than they did - on Lloyds main phone number. 
And by the time they did, on 17 March 2021 - it was too late to produce a mortgage offer by 
the following day.
Mr N and Mrs N didnt accept Lloyds offer and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator said that Lloyds should have done better than they did. If someone else had 
picked up the mortgage advisers work, as they should have, then there was a chance that 
the second home marker wouldve been removed, and the mortgage might have been 
approved in time for the property purchase. But it wasnt a certainty.  She noted that Mr N 
and Mrs N didnt call Lloyds main number until 17 March 2021  and thought it was 
reasonable for them to have done that earlier than they did. She considered that taking all 
this into account, the compensation should be increased to £500.
Lloyds accepted this, but Mr N and Mrs N didnt, and asked that an ombudsman look at their 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls that took place on 1 March 2021, 4 March 2021, and 17 March 2021. 
When Mr N and Mrs N first spoke to Lloyds mortgage adviser on 1 March 2021, their 
intention was to arrange a mortgage on the second property they wanted to buy. They 
needed to borrow another £150,000 to bid up to £250,000 at the auction on 18 March 2021. 
On the call, the mortgage adviser took some details for the application  and said she would 
send an Agreement in Principle (AIP) that day. But at the end of the call, it was decided to 
borrow the money as a further advance on Mr N and Mrs Ns existing Lloyds mortgage  on 
their main home - and a further meeting was arranged on 4 March 2021 to go through that. 
In that meeting, the mortgage adviser discovered there was a second home marker on the 
main property. This meant that under Lloyds lending rules, the LTV was limited to 75% - 
which meant they could only lend £129,740, which wasnt enough. And so  the application 
couldnt then be taken any further. The mortgage adviser said that the marker was an error  
and she would arrange for it to be removed. She said this would take about 48 hours to do - 
and she would then contact Mr N and Mrs N again  so the application could be taken 
forward. 
But  unfortunately, the mortgage adviser was then taken ill, and wasnt contactable. Lloyds 
notes show that no further work was carried out on Mr N and Mrs Ns application after 4 
March 2021. Mr N and Mrs N say they called the mortgage advisers number and texted her 
on 15 March 2021  without any success, and therefore called the main Lloyds number on 
17 March 2021  when they found out the mortgage adviser had been taken sick. In that call, 
it became clear that their application hadnt been progressed and the marker was still 
showing on their main property. This meant that the maximum LTV was still 75% - which 
would still mean Mr N and Mrs N couldnt borrow enough to bid for and buy the second 
home. On the call, Lloyds advised Mr N and Mrs N not to go to auction with a simple AIP 
document. This was because there were many reasons why a mortgage couldnt be offered 
following an AIP  and this couldve meant that Mr N and Mrs N risked losing their 10% 
deposit of £25,000 if they were successful at the auction. And Lloyds said - they should have 
a mortgage offer in place for the auction. I think that was sensible advice  but by then it was 
too late for Lloyds to provide a mortgage offer in time for the auction the following day.
The crux of this complaint is  should Lloyds have covered the mortgage advisers job and 
progressed Mr N and Mrs Ns mortgage application; and if they had, would that have 
enabled them to buy the property at the auction.Lloyds have admitted that they should have picked up the mortgage advisers work when 
she was taken ill. The second home marker would then have been taken off and the 
application progressed.  But also  I think its reasonable to say there was still a lot of work 
before a mortgage offer could be agreed. Lloyds needed to complete affordability checks- 
including employment details, certification of income (I noted on the calls that Mr N needed 
to get an accountants certificate), and LTV checks. Also  the suitability of the proposed 
mortgage was yet to be agreed, including its term, repayments and interest rate. So  at that 
stage, it wasnt certain that the mortgage offer could be agreed. I appreciate that Mr N and 
Mrs N told us that a mortgage was later agreed for another purpose  but equally, I have to 
say that each mortgage is different, depending on the circumstances at time, and so its not 
reasonable to say that this would mean the further advance for the second home would also 
have been agreed.
Its also fair to say that Mr N and Mrs N may not have been successful at auction. Even 
though they told us that it sold for £202,000 - we just dont know how it may have played out 
on the day. Its also reasonable to say that Mr N and Mrs N couldve mitigated what 
happened by calling the main Lloyds number earlier than they did  on 17 March 2021, 
which was almost two weeks after their meeting with the mortgage adviser. 
And so  Im not persuaded that we can hold Lloyds to be directly responsible for the loss of 
the property, and so an award for that isnt reasonable. So, Ive then looked at the distress 
and inconvenience caused. I can see that Mr N and Mrs N were very disappointed and upset 
at not being able to bid at the auction. Theyve also provided us with a schedule of the time 
theyve spent on tasks preparing to go to it. These include a stay at a hotel, a long drive to 
the property, and preparatory work they needed to complete  such as dealing with the 
auctioneers, solicitors, and estate agents. Mr N and Mrs N have also said that Mr Ns day 
rate is £500  and so the amount of compensation should reflect that.
But  as a principle, our service doesnt make awards based on time or someones particular 
rate. Our guidance is that we will award up to around £750 if the impact of a mistake has 
caused considerable distress and upset, and where the impact lasts over many months. And 
I think this complaint falls within that definition. Lloyds offered compensation of £300 and 
agreed with our investigators recommendation to increase this to £500. Im also persuaded 
that on balance, and in the circumstances of this case, that amount is the right level here.
(continued)
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Pay compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman