DRN-4302401
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card 
and later increased the credit limit. 
What happened
HSBC says Mr S first applied for a credit card in November 2004 which was approved with a 
credit limit of £4,500. 
In January 2021 Mr S applied online to increase his credit limit to £5,500. HSBC says it 
carried out a review of Mr S credit file and completed a lending assessment. HSBC says it 
found nothing of concern on Mr S credit file and took estimated figures for his outgoings into 
account. Mr S gave an income figure of £24,000 in his application and HSBC says it 
approved the increased credit limit on the basis repayments appeared affordable  in line 
with its lending criteria. 
Last year, Mr S complained and HSBC issued a final response. HSBC said it had no records 
from 2004 when Mr S opened the credit card but didnt mention the credit limit increase in 
2021. HSBC didnt uphold Mr S complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint and upheld it. The investigator said 
there was insufficient information available to show whether the original decision to approve 
the credit card application in 2004 was reasonable. But the investigator thought the fact 
there was around 16 years between Mr S original application and the credit limit increase 
request HSBC shouldve done more to verify repayments were affordable for him in the long 
term. And the investigator said that if HSBC had carried out better checks, like looking at Mr 
S bank statements, it wouldve found further borrowing was unaffordable and most likely 
decided not to proceed. 
HSBC didnt agree and said Mr S bank statements showed spending on non essential 
items, including gambling. As HSBC asked to appeal, Mr S complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
I agree with the investigators view that, due to the passage of time, theres no evidence on 
file to show whether the original lending decision in 2004 was reasonable or not. Both Mr S 
and HSBC have been unable to provide documents from the time so theres little I can use to 
verify whether the application checks were reasonable or not. So whilst Ive considered Mr S 
comments about the original credit card application, I havent found grounds to uphold this 
part of his complaint. 
As our investigator said, there was a significant gap between Mr S original application and 
the credit limit increase in 2021. I understand HSBC asked Mr S for his income during the 
application process and also used bureau data for outgoings. But I also think its fair to add 
that when HSBC completed a credit search it found a small default on Mr S credit file. And 
HSBC found Mr S owed around £16,000 against an income of £20,000. When HSBC applied 
regular outgoing figures to Mr S income, it left a modest sum each month for disposable 
income. In the circumstances, I think these factors shouldve caused HSBC to carry out 
more comprehensive checks before approving further lending. 
HSBCs response to the investigator said Mr S bank statements showed he non essential 
spending, including gambling. I think thats an important point. The bank statements 
available show Mr S was gambling at a reasonably high rate (especially when taking his 
income into account) in the months before his credit limit increase was approved. In my 
view, if HSBC had reviewed Mr S bank statements, it wouldve found signs of regular 
gambling in addition to a modest disposable income. And, in the circumstances, I think 
HSBC wouldve found increased borrowing wasnt sustainable in the long term and rejected 
Mr S credit limit increase application. 
As Im not persuaded that HSBC carried out proportionate checks and I think its more likely 
than not it wouldve declined the credit limit increase in 2021 if it had, Im upholding Mr S 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank PLC to settle as 
follows: 
- Rework the account, removing all interest and charges applied to balances over 
£4,500
- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated form the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. HSBC should also remove all adverse information regarding Mr S 
credit card from his credit file
- Or, if the after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, HSBC should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr S for the remaining amount. Once Mr S has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded in relation to the 
account should be removed from his credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 Marco Manente
Ombudsman