DRN-4149607
The complaint
Mr H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited misadvised him about his 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the events surrounding this complaint, so Ive only summarised 
them in brief. 
In 2019 Mr H was speaking to Legal and General about the suitability of an existing 
endowment policy. That policy isnt the subject of this complaint, but Mr H complained that 
during those conversations Legal and General mis-advised him that another of his policies 
was suitable for him when it wasnt. That was an accident, sickness, and unemployment 
policy designed to cover Mr Hs interest only mortgage payments. And both parties referred 
to as MPI. 
When Mr H brought that complaint to this service our investigator didnt uphold it. They 
explained theyd listened to all of the calls made available and had heard no mis-advice in 
any of them. 
Mr H said he was shocked at those findings given the calls had been listened to. He 
wondered if there were others that hadnt been made available, but said there was still 
sufficient evidence in the ones that had to prove he was telling the truth. 
Mr H also referred to a replacement quote hed been given by Legal and General at the time 
and confirmed that was for a different product. He pointed to moments in the recordings he 
felt evidenced his position. He said, based on the conversations he was having about the 
endowment policy, Legal and General should have put his MPI policy right too. And he said 
it was clear hed come away from the conversations having thought everything was ok with 
his MPI policy or it was going to be sorted.
So, as no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding this complaint. I recognise Mr H will be further 
disappointed by this and will explain my reasons below:  
I have listened to all of the call recordings made available. I wont recite the contents 
of them here as both sides hold copies, but they all centered around the issues 
surrounding Mr Hs endowment policy. 
Mr H did make references to his MPI policy in some of those recordings, but Im not 
persuaded Legal and General provided any advice about the suitability of that policy 
within them. For example:
oMr H mentioned his MPI during the call recording from 18 January 2019. 
However, in response, the call handler confirmed they were only talking about 
the endowment policy and not the MPI policy as they didnt deal with that 
product.
oThe above was reiterated later within the same call too, when the call handler 
said thats (MPI) a separate policy, thats nothing to do with what I am doing 
here. 
oDuring the recording from 5 March 2019 Mr H provided his MPI policy number 
in an attempt to help Legal and General locate details of a separate quote 
hed been given. That quote, as Mr H rightly described to us, was for 
replacement life and critical illness cover; something previously included 
within his endowment policy. Once the call handler established that number 
related to Mr Hs MPI though, they too confirmed MPI was a separate policy 
and only designed to cover mortgage payments in the event of accident or 
sickness. 
While Mr H believes there may be other call recordings he says theres still sufficient 
evidence in the ones provided to show he is telling the truth. Legal and General 
searched for the call dates Mr H said he had with it, and it searched using the phone 
numbers he said hed called it from too. Legal and General has now provided this 
service with all of the recordings it located for the 2019 year, and although I 
appreciate Mr H believes some may still be missing, I hope hell appreciate that it 
would be unfair of me to make a finding on the content of calls that I have not been 
able to assess. 
I can however reassure Mr H that I have listened to all of the recordings that have 
been made available. And I did not hear Legal and General advising on the suitability 
of Mr Hs MPI policy within them. 
I think it important to clarify that I have no reason to doubt what Mr H says he came 
away from the calls having understood about his MPI. But it would be unfair of me to 
find that Legal and General mis-advised him about the suitability of this policy when I 
did not hear it do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman