DRN-1168486
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997 in connection with their joint 
mortgage which was redeemed in 2006.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C took out a mortgage with YBS in April 1997. They also took out a regular 
premium PPI policy, most likely at a meeting. They were covered in equal 50% shares for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. They were paying £25.74 per month for a monthly 
benefit of £500 which was payable for 9 months on a successful claim.  
Mrs C and Mr C complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs C and Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to 
be looked at again. They added they were told it was mandatory to have PPI and they just 
signed the forms where they were told to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account, along with the law and good industry practice, in deciding Mrs 
C's and Mr Cs case.
Having done that, Im not going to uphold their complaint. I know this will be a disappointing 
result for them so Ill explain my reasons why.
Mrs C and Mr C said they were told they had to have PPI to secure the mortgage. So I first 
looked at whether YBS presented this policy as an optional financial product. I could see 
from the form headed Mortgage Payment Insurance that this was the separate application 
form for PPI. Mrs C and Mr C signed it to say they which cover they wanted, how much 
cover they wanted each month and that they agreed to have a 60 day excess. I can 
reasonably assume that if a consumer didnt want the PPI cover, then he/she didnt have to 
sign the form. So I think PPI was presented to Mrs C and Mr C as an optional product. 
YBS said its practice at the time was to have non-advised PPI sales. Mrs C and Mr C said 
the sale was advised. Im going to treat this sale as a non-advised one as this was YBS 
practice at the time. For such sales, YBS had to give Mrs C and Mr C enough information 
which was clear, fair and not misleading.
There is limited information about the PPI cost and benefit on the application form  although 
I can see Mrs C and Mr C were each eligible to buy the cover. As there was probably a 
meeting to sell the mortgage, I can reasonably conclude there was probably some 
discussion about how PPI would work to cover the mortgage repayments  although I dont 
know what exactly was said to them. So having decided PPI was shown as an optional 
product and that they decided to choose the cover they wanted and for what period, I think they probably would have thought they would get some value from the PPI from the 
information they were given. I dont think that any more detailed information about the cost 
and benefits would have put them off from buying PPI.
Mrs C and Mr C said they had around £15,000 in savings from various sources at the time of 
the sale. However, they could not provide any bank statements to confirm this, so I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to rely on this information in my decision. This means I 
cant safely conclude they wouldnt have bought the PPI on the basis of having enough 
savings.
I also think it was unlikely that Mrs C and Mr C would have been affected by the main things 
not covered by the policy (the exclusions). So  although I dont know how the exclusions 
were presented to them  I dont think that having a full list of them would have put them off 
from buying PPI.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs C and Mr C lost out because of anything 
that YBS may have done wrong. So it follows that Im not going to uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman