DRN-1461599
The complaint
Mr R complains that Virgin Money plc (Virgin) removed a promotional rate from his credit 
card account unfairly.
What happened
Mr R applied for a 0% interest promotional balance transfer rate on his Virgin credit card. On 
30 October 2019, Mr R called Virgin to clarify the date his direct debit would be taken. Mr R 
says he was incorrectly told the direct debit would be taken on 30th day of each month.
On 10 November 2019 Mr Rs statement was produced which said his minimum payment 
would be taken on 1 December 2019. As this date was a Sunday, the payment was taken on 
2 December 2019 and was returned as unpaid shortly after. As a result Virgin removed Mr 
Rs promotional rate and applied charges to the account.
Mr R says his promotional rate shouldn't have been removed because he was given 
incorrect information over the telephone. He says he doesn't use the online service, so he 
had relied on the information given to him over the telephone. Mr R also says he received 
poor customer service when he tried to raise the complaint  including being given incorrect 
information and not having a call returned.
Virgin says it has acted in line with its terms and conditions in removing the promotional rate 
as Mr R didn't make the minimum repayment. And it says it waived one month of interest 
and paid £50 compensation for giving Mr R incorrect information and for the mistakes it had 
made. It says it asked Mr R to provide his bank statements for 30 November 2019 to show 
he had the funds available in his account on that day, but Mr R has refused to provide these.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said the information 
given to Mr R over the phone wasn't incorrect, Mr Rs statement showed the correct 
payment date and that regardless of which date the payment was due, the direct debit 
always would have been taken on 2 December 2019 as this was the next working day after 
both payment dates.
Mr R didn't agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
When Mr R called Virgin in October 2019, he was told that his statements were produced on 
the 10th day of each month and the payment date would be on or around 20 days later. The 
agent specified that a payment would be due on or around 30 November 2019. However, the 
statement that was produced around two weeks later showed that Mr Rs payment was due 
on 1 December 2019. As this payment was due the day after the date Mr R was told, and Mr R was made aware that the date given over the telephone wasn't the exact payment date, 
Im satisfied that Mr R wasn't given incorrect information.
Mr Rs credit card statement makes it clear that his payment is due on 1 December 2019 
and the account's terms and conditions state that it is Mr Rs responsibility to check his 
statement each month. But regardless of this, the payment date of 30 November 2019 would 
have fallen on a Saturday  a non-working day. And the actual payment date was the 
Sunday which was also a non-working day. So the direct debit always would have been 
taken on the next business day which was 2 December 2019.
Virgin has requested bank statements from Mr R to show that he had funds in the account 
on 30 November 2019 that were removed between then and 2 December 2019  when it 
attempted to take the payment. But Mr R has refused to provide this as he doesn't think its 
relevant. It seems that Mr R told Virgin that he'd moved money away from his account on 30 
November 2019 as he thought the payment had been taken and Virgin was willing to 
consider this. But I think it was Mr Rs responsibility to check that the payment had been 
taken, particularly given that he was told the payment would be taken on or around 30 
November 2019. And as the payment would have been taken on 2 December regardless of 
which date the payment was due and the payment on that date was returned unpaid, I dont 
think this would make a difference to the outcome of the complaint.
When Virgin didn't receive the minimum payment to the account, it removed the promotional 
balance transfer rate. The terms and conditions Ive seen make it clear it is able to do this, 
so I dont think its made a mistake in removing the promotional interest rate from the 
account.
Mr R has also said he's unhappy with the customer service he received. In this instance, our 
rules dont allow us to consider the way the complaint was handled, so I cant comment on 
this. But I have considered that Mr R was told he would receive a call back on 5 December 
2019 and didn't receive one. But Mr R was able to speak to the relevant team a short time 
later and I can see that Virgin has offered Mr R £50 compensation. As Mr R was able to 
speak to the relevant department shortly after expecting a call back from them, I think the 
£50 compensation offered fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused by not receiving a call 
back and I dont think Virgin needs to do anything further to resolve this issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman