DRN-3158251
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH), lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from LAHs records, here is a brief table of approved loans. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Combined 
Repayment
1 04/10/2017 29/08/2018 75 £1,400.00 £35.00
2 29/08/2018 13/11/2019 78 £1,600.00 £41.60
3 26/06/2019 05/02/2020 46 £250.00 £51.60
4 13/11/2019 05/05/2021 63 £1,660.00 £61.46
5 05/02/2020 22/07/2020 46 £500.00 £71.46
6 22/07/2020 outstanding 46 £750.00 £81.46
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that LAH should put things right 
for each of these loans for several reasons. 
LAH disagreed except that it did agree that it ought to have carried out additional checks for 
the last loan. This is not entirely clear as to whether LAH does think it lent irresponsibly at 
loan 6 but I have reviewed all the loans anyway. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
LAH was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
The loan table in the first part of the decision, does not give any details about Mr Ws 
income. He was on benefits and the weekly income amount for loan 1 in October 2017 was 
only £169. Id consider that a low income individual. LAH did take some details about his 
expenditure and I have seen the original application form completed by Mr W and the LAH 
agent at the end of September 2017. That total expenditure would have been around £84 
leaving him with just under £85 a week left over. Reducing that by the loan repayments 
would have meant he had just under £50 a week after repayment of the LAH loan 1.
In relation to Loan 1, our adjudicator thought that the percentage of the LAH loan repayment 
to Mr Ws weekly income was too high. Added to which I have reviewed the credit bureau 
data LAH has sent to us in relation to this application and it appears Mr W had about five 
accounts in arrears at the time. 
On the application form for loan 1, Mr W must have told the agent some information about 
another home credit lender. And this was annotated on that form which said: paying off 
[other lenders name here] loan.  This was next to three categories of credit all of which 
had 0 next to them indicating Mr W had declared he had no other credit expenses. 
LAH in its submissions to us has said that Mr W had elected to use Loans at Home after 
clearing his balance with [other lenders name here]. This is evident from the bureau data, as 
youll see the month after our loan is issued, his other Home Credit loan is satisfied. [Mr Ws] weekly repayment as a proportion of his income is just 22% with this first loan. 
LAH went on to explain that in its view Mr W was not in a position where he would be unable 
to afford the repayments for the duration of the lending, nor for him to borrow more to meet 
his repayments.
So I did review the credit bureau data and I have seen an entry for October 2017 when 
loan 1 was being approved which did indicate that Mr W was paying for another home credit 
loan at £32 which I take to mean £32 a week. And then in November 2017 I have seen that 
the entry disappeared. So, it does appear to me that LAH knew Mr W was using this LAH 
loan to repay the other lenders loan. As he was paying the £32 a week for that other 
lenders loan then once that had been paid off, I assume that the LAH agent was proceeding 
on the assumption that the £35 a week for the LAH loan would fit into Mr Ws financial 
situation and not be a problem. And I am saying this because of LAHs own explanations to 
us to justify the loan 1 approval, the credit bureau details and the annotations on the 
application form for loan 1.
I consider all of this to be clear and acknowledged evidence that LAH knew Mr W was 
borrowing to repay other borrowing  a clear indication of unsustainability. Add to this the 
other bureau data information I have seen, such as his £41 a week being paid on other 
credit, plus the fact that he had accounts in arrears, then it seems to me that his money left 
over at the end of a week would be reduced to around £9. 
And, the £35 a week Mr W was committing himself to on the loan 1 repayments were too 
high especially considering his £169 a week income was in the low category anyway, and 
the entirety of his income was made up of benefits. 
In the circumstances I uphold Mr Ws complaint for loan 1. 
I have reviewed the evidence surrounding the approval of Loan 2. I have seen that Mr Ws 
income had increased slightly according to the figures given to LAH, but his expenditure had 
increased a great deal. So, I think that the higher weekly repayment figure for loan 2 going 
forward would have been difficult for Mr W. I have considered the fact that Loan 2 was for 
another large and long term loan, plus I have reviewed the credit bureau data LAH has 
supplied. All these factors lead me to conclude that it was irresponsible to lend again to 
Mr W. 
Our adjudicator thought that there was a pattern of borrowing beginning to establish itself by 
loan 3. Loan 3 overlapped with loan 2 and so Mr Ws repayments were scheduled to be 
around £51 a week. And the evidence I have from LAH about Mr Ws expenditure figures 
show that they had increased again from the figures Mr W had given at Loan 2. The credit 
bureau data indicated he was in arrears on several accounts. And so my view is that this 
additional loan 3 ought not to have been lent. Mr W was at a point in the lending relationship 
when the pattern had developed where despite Mr W being on a relatively low income and, 
as has already been established, he was borrowing to meet the commitments hed made to 
other lenders, so, after 20 months of lending I think LAH ought to have realised that this was 
an issue. It seems that Mr Ws likely pattern of dealing with LAH debt and other debt was to 
keep taking more credit.  
The lending continued: LAH approved loan 4 for Mr W a few months later in 
November 2019, which likely was used to repay loan 2 and then committed Mr W to even 
more weekly repayments at the higher amount of over £61 and for a further 63 weeks. And 
so the pattern continued. I think that as well as upholding Mr Ws complaint about loans 1 and 2, I think that he lost out 
because LAH continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ws ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about on this basis from Loan 3 as well and LAH should 
put things right in respect of each of the loans. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened if LAH had never lent to Mr W, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere or they may have looked to borrow the funds 
from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr W in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Mr W loans 1 to 6. If it has sold the outstanding debts LAH should 
buy these back if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If LAH is not able to buy 
the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
LAH has already refunded.
B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then LAH should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. LAH should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr W. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then LAH should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with him.
LAH shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal LAH has already written-
off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing for loans 3 to 6 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so LAH should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ws credit file. 
LAH does not have to remove loan 6 from Mr Ws credit file until these have been repaid, but 
LAH should still remove any adverse payment information recorded about these loans.
If LAH intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr W owes, it must do this after tax. 
LAH cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. It must give LAH a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint entirely and I direct that S.D. Taylor 
Limited does as I have outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman