DRN-3956854
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt update her address correctly when they should 
have done. 
Miss Gs complaint is brought to this service by her appointed representative. However, for 
ease of reference, Ill refer primarily to Miss G throughout this letter.
What happened
In 2020, TSB were notified that Miss G had changed address. Shortly afterwards, Miss G 
ordered a new debit card from TSB, but when the new card arrived, Miss G noticed it had 
delivered via a postal redirection service and had been addressed by TSB incorrectly to her 
old address. Because of this, Miss G went into a TSB branch to confirm her new address 
with TSB and was told by TSB staff at that time that everything had been updated correctly.
In January 2022, Miss G ordered a replacement debit card from TSB. The replacement card 
wasnt received, and so Miss G ordered a new card again in April 2022. This card also 
wasnt received, which led to Miss G to order a third new card in June 2022. And when this 
third replacement debit card also wasnt received, Miss G contacted TSB and discovered 
that TSB still held her incorrect old address. Miss G wasnt happy about this and felt that a 
breach of her data had occurred because the previously ordered cards had been sent to the 
wrong address. So, she raised a complaint.
TSB responded to Miss Gs complaint and confirmed that they hadnt updated Miss Gs 
address correctly on all their systems and that it was this which had caused the ordered 
cards to be posted to Miss Gs old address. TSB also confirmed that they had recorded a 
data breach because of what had happened and noted that Miss Gs address had now been 
updated correctly on all their systems so that the issue shouldnt arise again. Finally, TSB 
apologised to Miss G and made a payment of £200 to her as compensation for any trouble 
and upset she may have incurred. Miss G wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so she 
referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that TSB had 
issued to Miss Gs complaint  including the payment of £200 compensation  already 
represented a fair resolution to the complaint. Miss G remained dissatisfied, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that TSB have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
In this instance, TSB dont dispute that they made a mistake here by not updating Miss Gs 
address on all their systems when they first should have done, and they also dont dispute 
that it was because of this mistake that the replacement debit cards ordered by Miss G were 
sent to the incorrect address. TSB have apologised for this and taken the corrective action to 
ensure that the mistake shouldnt happen again, and theyve also made a payment of £200 
to Miss G to compensate her for any upset and inconvenience she may have incurred.
Miss G doesnt feel that this £200 compensation amount is enough, given what happened 
here  including that a data breach occurred and that she ordered multiple replacement debit 
cards before the error was discovered. 
I can appreciate Miss Gs strength of feeling. But as explained above, this service isnt a 
regulatory body, and so it isnt within my remit to punish TSB for the act of the data breach. 
Instead, when considering compensation paid by a business to a complainant for the 
distress and inconvenience that complainant may have incurred  which is specifically what 
TSB stated the £200 payment was for in their response to Miss Gs complaint  this service 
seeks to decide whether the compensation is a fair amount, in consideration of the distress 
and inconvenience incurred by the complainant that its felt the business should reasonably 
be considered accountable for.
Matters of compensation and issues of distress and inconvenience can be subjective. But 
the £200 that TSB have already paid to Miss G does seems like a fair amount to me, given 
the full circumstances of this complaint, and I can confirm its commensurate with what I may 
have instructed TSB to pay, had they not already done so.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered the impact that Miss G has explained these events 
have had upon her, and I can confirm that this includes a consideration of the difficulties that 
Miss G has explained she experiences regarding her anxiety and her mental health. 
But, as an impartial party, Ive also had to consider that Miss G didnt make TSB aware that 
the replacement cards she was ordering werent being received by her until after shed 
ordered and not received the third requested replacement card in June 2022. 
And having considered this point, I dont feel that TSB should reasonably be held solely 
accountable for the upset and inconvenience Miss G experienced between her not receiving 
the first requested card in January 2022 and her making TSB aware of the issue in June 
2022, and this is because I dont feel that TSB should reasonably be held solely accountable 
for not correcting an error that they hadnt been made aware was taking place.  
Additionally, when TSB were made aware by Miss G that the three cards shed previously 
requested hadnt been received to her address, they moved quickly to block the cards that 
had been addressed incorrectly and to update Miss Gs address, as well as to order Miss G 
a further replacement card which was then received by her.
And so, while I acknowledge that Miss G has incurred distress and inconvenience because 
of what happened here that she reasonably ought not to have incurred, because of all the 
factors Ive described above  including that Miss G may be particularly susceptible to such 
upset but also that I feel that Miss G could have reasonably mitigated against what was 
happening by informing TSB earlier  I feel that £200 is a fair compensation amount for whats happened here.  
Miss G is also upset that TSB wouldnt respond to a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) 
made by her appointed representative without her giving TSB specific authorisation for them 
to engage with her representative about the DSAR. But this doesnt seem unreasonable to 
me, and I feel its both fair and expected that TSB would seek confirmation from the subject 
of a DSAR that they authorise the sending of their personal information to a representative. 
All of which means that I feel that the response that TSB have already issued to Miss Gs 
complaint  including the payment of £200 compensation for the trouble and upset that Miss 
G has incurred  does provide a fair and reasonable resolution to whats happened here. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss G was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action here. I hope that Miss 
G will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman