DRN-2958464
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Gregory Pennington Limited mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI). 
 
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in 2010. This was to cover 
payments on a debt arrangement. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Gregory Pennington Limited 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered Gregory Pennington Limiteds comments, but I have still decided to uphold 
this complaint. 
Mr P says the PPI would never have covered him properly. I agree that there were 
limitations in the policy that would particularly have affected him; and I think its unlikely 
these were drawn to his attention at the time the PPI was sold to him. 
When Gregory Pennington Limited sold the PPI to Mr P, it had to give him clear and fair 
information, so that he could make an informed choice. One restriction in the policy was that 
it didnt give cover for claims arising from pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs). Im 
satisfied that Mr P had, for several years before the PPI started, suffered from a long-term 
chronic medical condition. This was a serious one that is known sometimes to lead to 
several complications. I think that, if Mr P had known about the limitation in the policy, hed 
have decided against taking the PPI. 
Gregory Pennington Limited have sent us a copy of a sales script, which it says would have 
been used during the phone call in which the PPI was sold. Ive looked at it, and I agree that 
the sales script does mention PEMCs. But I have no evidence to show that this script was 
actually used at or in full: I dont know if the part about PEMCs was use  theres no 
reference to this in the notes from the time. Also, the sales script is long and densely worded 
and I think it unlikely an adviser, in reality, would have read it all out; nor that they would 
have read it out in a way that ensured the customer understood it. The wording about 
PEMCs certainly isnt in plain simple language. 
I think Mr P lost out as a result of Gregory Pennington Limiteds probable failings in this 
case.  I dont think Mr P would have taken out the policy if Gregory Pennington Limited had 
given proper information.
 
Putting things right
Gregory Pennington Limited should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Gregory 
Pennington Limited should:
Pay Mr P the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he needs it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Gregory Pennington Limited 
can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gregory Pennington Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Gregory Pennington Limited must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Mr P should refer back to Gregory Pennington Limited if unsure of the approach it has taken, 
and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about 
the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
I require Gregory Pennington Limited to pay Mr P compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman