DRN-4378271
The complaint
Miss A has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund money for a transaction 
she didnt make.
What happened
Miss A complained to Nationwide that a transaction for £2,833 made on 4 May 2023 wasnt 
her. She blamed a member of her family, her sister, who she believed was able to use her 
phone whilst she was unavailable. Her sister helped her with her finances and knew her 
passcodes and PIN for her card. Her sister had used Miss As account to make a transfer (to 
a business Ill call T) for some jewellery which was never received. 
Nationwide initially treated this as a scam and contacted T whod received the funds from 
Miss As account. There were no funds remaining.
Nationwide told Miss A they werent going to refund her as they believed shed made the 
transaction herself. They could see that money from her savings account was transferred 
initially into her current account which allowed the payment to T to be made. Either 
fingerprint or face recognition was used to make the payment and they therefore believed 
Miss A had made the payment.
Miss A brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator came to the same 
conclusion based on the evidence of the transactions made on 4 May 2023.
Still unhappy with this outcome, Miss A asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 8 September 2023. I came to the same overall 
conclusion but considered different arguments in reaching it.
Nationwide accepted this but no response was received from Miss A.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Miss As complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Miss As case other than those factors I mention below.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Nationwide and Miss A have told us. I have to say that both sets of evidence bear 
some inconsistencies which Ill try to unravel.
Were the transactions authorised?
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Miss A can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Miss A 
needs to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated from the information provided to us by 
Nationwide. In other words, Miss As genuine details logon details were used. The new 
payee was set up and properly authenticated.
Turning to consent, the evidence from Miss A suggests her sister used her phone to log on 
as Miss A, make the transfers and then the disputed payment itself. Miss A doesnt dispute 
providing her card details and letting her sister use her account. Her initial complaint to our 
service confirms her sister acted like a power of attorney on her account, although this 
wasnt yet official. Both Miss A and her aunt have provided testimony of Miss As serious bad 
health and difficult memory issues which explains why she felt this was a necessary option. 
I would suggest this means Miss A provided apparent authority to her sister to make the 
transactions. Whilst apparent authority can be withdrawn or annulled by the payment service 
user (Miss A in this context), Ive seen nothing to suggest this was the case here.
Miss A may have allowed  by means of apparent authority  her sister to use her account. 
However I do wonder about how her sister could have logged on as Miss A. I know that both 
sisters look alike  and are of a similar age  but I wouldnt expect the facial recognition to 
believe they were the same person. Miss As aunt has suggested her sister set up her own 
face to be recognised on Miss As phone. However Im not sure why she would do that 
unless she was in the habit of using Miss As phone. Ive not seen any evidence from 
Nationwide that this is the case.
Ive looked at the various transfers. Whilst initially £2,833 was transferred from Miss As 
savings account to facilitate the disputed payment, later that evening  a couple of hours 
later  further transfers were made. I have to say I think its unlikely this would have been 
Miss As sister risking the chance of making further transactions.
Unfortunately Nationwides evidence is unable to confirm exactly which biometric was 
checked when the payment was made.
However I do believe  based on the evidence  the payment was most likely authorised 
either by Miss A.
Ive also gone on to consider the aspect which Nationwide first considered: whether Miss A 
was the victim of a scam.
Regardless of who made the disputed purchase, I dont believe theres any doubt that Miss A or her sister was the victim of a scam. This case has all of those hallmarks. I say this 
because money was sent using T to a new payee for items supposedly seen in person which 
could only be paid for by making an online payment later on. 
I can see from Nationwides own evidence, they initially accepted Miss A was most likely the 
victim of a scam. They didnt refund her, however, as I think they found her evidence 
contradictory and werent sure which aspect to consider  whether the transaction was 
authorised or not, or whether Miss A was the victim of a scam. To be fair I think they 
believed Miss A couldnt get two options to get refunded. And in any case, the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model code which Miss A feels she can rely on specifically excludes 
disputed authorised transactions. 
I have considered whether Nationwide should have intervened to stop the transaction. 
However I can see from Miss As statement that it was very usual for her to transfer 
reasonably large sums of money into and out of her savings and current account. Im not 
sure theyd have seen the transfer of £2,833 into her current account as unusual.
And yes, Nationwide were aware that a new payee was being set up. A fraud warning was 
made available so that whoever was making the disputed payment could register this. 
However overall I dont think Id have expected Nationwide to take any further action and 
stop what happened.
Overall I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss As complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman