DRN-3027484
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as D has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr W has brought the complaint on Ds behalf. D is represented in bringing this complaint 
but for ease of reading Ill refer to all actions and comments of being those of D. 
What happened
D held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It claimed on its policy after 
closing as a result of the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
  
RSA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of an outbreak or 
occurrence of any human contagious or infectious disease at the premises, D had closed as 
a result of the Government Act in response to the national pandemic. As RSA thought D had 
closed in response to the national lockdown, rather than because someone at its premises 
had Covid-19, RSA turned down its claim. 
  
D complained to RSA as it thought the policy should provide cover in the event of an 
outbreak of a disease. It said the word or meant it could be a general outbreak or an 
occurrence of a disease at the premises. As RSA maintained they were correct in turning 
down Ds claim, D brought its complaint to us. 
While we were looking into things it was established that RSA had quoted the incorrect 
policy wording in its final response letter to D. However, RSA said it had turned the claim 
down using the correct policy wording and had initially given D the correct reason for turning 
down its claim. RSA also let D know there may be cover for its claim if someone at its 
premises had Covid-19 prior to restrictions being imposed. 
  
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought the 
policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been an outbreak or occurrence 
at the premises. And he didnt think he was able to conclude that there had most likely been 
a case of Covid-19 at Ds premises.  
  
D asked for an ombudsmans decision as it still felt the use of the word or made the 
extension ambiguous. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
D. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if RSA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ds claim. 
The relevant extension to the policy says:
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof 
on the order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an 
outbreak or occurrence at the Premises of
A) Any human contagious or infectious disease other than Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition, an outbreak of which 
is required by law or stipulated by the governmental authority to be notified
B) Food or drink poisoning
C) Vermin or pests
D) Defective sanitation
I understand that D thinks that this extension is triggered by either a wider outbreak of a 
disease or an occurrence at its premises. However, I dont think that the policy does mean 
this. I say that because when considering all of the points at A)-D) and not just A) it wouldnt 
make linguistic sense to say the premises were closed due to an outbreak of defective 
sanitation. I therefore think that the words outbreak or occurrence are used because some 
of the events at the premises would be considered an outbreak whereas others would be 
considered an occurrence. I dont think the wording of the extension is ambiguous and so I 
think that for the extension to provide cover there would need to be an outbreak or 
occurrence of a human contagious or infectious disease at Ds premises. 
 
Covid-19 is a human contagious or infectious disease, but D hasnt indicated that anyone at 
the premises had Covid-19. As Ds closure was as a result of the Governments response to 
the national pandemic and theres no indication that anyone at the premises had Covid-19, 
unfortunately this extension doesnt cover the circumstances of Ds claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for, but having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman