DRN-3185119
The complaint
Ms O has a mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc, and is unhappy with the banks treatment of 
her. She complains that it:
- didnt offer her a lower interest rate over the years, despite her requests;
- refused to extend her mortgage term on an interest-only basis; and
- dealt very poorly with her since late 2019, when she asked for an extended term and a 
new rate.
What happened
In 2007, Ms O took out an interest-only mortgage of just over £160,000 with Bank of 
Scotland, over a 13-year term. She arranged the mortgage through a broker, and self-
certified her income. The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate for the first two years; the 
rate then changed to the banks standard variable rate (SVR) in July 2009. 
Ms O says she originally intended to sell her home in order to repay the mortgage at the end 
of the term, but her circumstances have since changed and she no longer wants to do so. 
The mortgage term ended in July 2020.
In 2019, Ms O asked the bank for a term extension. She said she planned to use the equity 
in the property to pay off the mortgage if she eventually moves or when she dies, or she 
would take out an equity release mortgage to repay the bank  which she would be better 
placed to do at the end of an extended term as she would be able to borrow more money. 
Ms O also asked why she had never been offered a more favourable interest rate. She didnt 
think it was right that shed been paying interest at the SVR since 2009.
The bank initially didnt offer Ms O anything, so she complained. Ms O and the bank then 
had a number of discussions about a way forward, and the bank sent several responses to 
Ms Os complaint. In the end, the bank:
- paid Ms O £600 for its poor service;
- backdated the most favourable fixed interest rates that would have been open to Ms O 
had it arranged a new rate for her when she asked in January 2016, resulting in a 
payment of just over £11,000; and
- offered a five-year term extension at a fixed interest rate of 2.06% for the first four years, 
backdated to August 2020, with all but £11,000 of the mortgage balance paid on an 
interest-only basis. 
Ms O accepted all of this, on the understanding that it wouldnt prejudice her ongoing 
complaint, and even though the five-year extension and the four-year rate werent really 
what she wanted. She said she would have preferred a ten-year term extension, with all of 
the mortgage paid on an interest-only basis. 
Following Ms Os complaint to this service, the bank said Ms O was too late to complain that 
it hadnt offered her a better interest rate when she said shed contacted it in 2009 and 2012. 
I agreed, and I issued a decision confirming which parts of this complaint I have jurisdiction 
to consider. I concluded that I can only consider:
- Ms Os requests for a term extension and the banks treatment of her following her 
complaint in September 2019;
- the interest rate on her mortgage after September 2013 (which is six years before she 
complained). 
Our investigator concluded that the bank had done enough to resolve Ms Os complaint 
satisfactorily, so didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
Ms O didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. She still felt that her 
mortgage should have been on a lower rate for longer, and that there was no risk to the bank 
in extending her mortgage term further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise Ms O will be disappointed, Im not going to require the bank 
to do any more to resolve this complaint. 
The bank accepts it made mistakes and the standard of service Ms O received was poor. It 
has paid her £600 by way of compensation. Its clear that Ms O was very concerned about 
her situation and the mortgage, and I think the banks delays and failure to engage properly 
with her caused her considerable upset and distress, as well as inconvenience. I consider 
£600 is a fair award to reflect all of that.
Ill deal now with the matters of the term extension and the interest rate in turn.
Term extension
The starting point here is that, when she took out the mortgage, Ms O agreed to repay it at 
the end of the term in 2020. There was no obligation on the bank to extend the term when 
she asked it to later. That was always going to be subject to an assessment of Ms Os 
circumstances  which I would expect to include her plans for how she would ultimately 
repay the capital she borrowed.
In considering Ms Os request for an extension, the bank had also to keep in mind her best 
interests. That doesnt mean, though, that it should necessarily have agreed to whatever 
extension she wanted, on whatever terms.  
I dont think the bank handled Ms Os request well and it caused unnecessary delay. But it 
has now agreed to a five-year term extension, with a small part of the mortgage being paid 
on a capital and interest basis. I consider this a fair resolution as matters stand now. In 2019, 
Ms O had asked for an extra five years, on the basis that she expects to be in a better 
position after that period to take an equity release or lifetime mortgage, and she will have 
saved up additional pension income  and this is what she now has.While five years isnt as long as Ms O would like, it means she can stay in her property, and 
the bank can review her situation with her at the end of the extended term. Circumstances 
can and do change, and Ms Os situation wont be the same in 2025 as it is now  and 
neither will the housing or mortgage market. I dont consider I can fairly conclude now that a 
ten-year extension would be a better option, or that it would be in Ms Os best interests. 
Ms O is now paying just over £11,000 of the mortgage on a capital and interest basis and 
the remainder on interest-only. On the basis that she can afford the resulting payments, I 
think this is sensible, as it means shes making inroads into the capital, she will owe less at 
the end of the extended term, and she will pay less interest overall. 
Interest rate on the mortgage
I can only consider the mortgage interest rate from September 2013 onwards. Ive looked 
carefully at the banks records of its contact with Ms O since then, and I find nothing to 
indicate that she asked about a new rate until January 2016. 
Theres no requirement for lenders to invite borrowers to apply for more favourable interest 
rates; its up to the borrower to apply. Im satisfied that the bank has compensated Ms O 
fairly for failing to give her request for a lower rate proper consideration when she asked in 
January 2016. It has paid her compensation based on the lowest rates that would have been 
available to her from that time onwards, and I consider this a fair approach as it means she 
hasnt lost out. 
Theres no record of Ms Os having asked for a new rate between September 2013 and 
January 2016, so I dont require the bank to apply a fixed rate further back than it has.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has done enough to put 
things right. I make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman