DRN-4274016
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a claim he made on his DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited (DAS) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr B says DAS treated him unfairly.
What happened
Mr Bs complaint is about a claim he made on his DAS legal expenses insurance policy for 
cover to defend a claim under the employment section of his policy.
DAS declined the claim because it took the view that the dispute Mr B was involved in didnt 
relate to a breach of his rights under his contract of employment, as required by the policy. 
Mr B disagreed. After he brought his complaint to this Service, he provided an email from his 
own Solicitor, whod successfully defended his claim to conclusion, setting out that the claim 
related to Mr Bs employment contract. As a consequence, DAS agreed to reconsider the 
claim retrospectively.
Mr B also complains about the service he received from DAS. He said that DAS delayed 
considerably in providing an answer on his claim and that he had to chase them on several 
occasions and didnt receive a meaningful response for over a year. After Mr Bs complaint 
was brought to this Service, DAS offered to pay £450 to compensate him for the poor 
service hed received. 
Overall Mr B wants DAS to pay the legal costs he incurred in defending the claim against 
him and at least £1,000 in compensation for the poor service he received, including delays.
Our investigator assessed Mr Bs complaint. He said that based on the information Mr B had 
provided to DAS when he made his claim, it was reasonable for DAS to conclude the matter 
wasnt covered under the policy. But he also thought that DAS should have offered him 
compensation for the poor service he received before the complaint was brought to us and 
that the £450 it later offered was adequate. As such he said the complaint should be upheld 
for this reason. Mr B doesnt agree. He also wants the matter to be determined as a whole 
after DAS have made their claims decision. As such the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. In this case Mr Bs policy under the Employment 
Disputes section says:
The Company will negotiate for the Insured Persons legal rights in a dispute arising from 
their contract of employment
Ive reviewed this in relation to the information Mr B gave to DAS about his claim when he 
made it. Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that it was clear this was a claim that 
would fall within negotiating legal rights in a dispute arising out of Mr Bs contract of 
employment. I say so because the claim, as it was initially made, arose out of the other 
partys plan to develop a business to the point of it being saleable. This involved several 
business Partners, of which Mr B was one. Theres reference to Mr B being allowed to take 
the lead on discussions to advance the business being saleable and that this was the 
contract entered into, which Mr B says represented his contract of employment. The other 
party in the dispute was alleging that Mr B had received secret profits and that was the claim 
he was seeking cover to defend.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr B felt the agreement hed entered into with the other party was a 
contract of employment, and that he told DAS that, I dont think he provided enough 
information to support that was the case. The agreement itself doesnt appear to fall into a 
traditional contract of employment and theres nothing that makes me think DAS were wrong 
to reject the claim on the basis that there wasnt a situation in which Mr Bs legal rights 
needed to be negotiated under one.
It wasnt until Mr B made a complaint to this Service that he provided an email from his 
Solicitor setting out that they acted for him in relation to a dispute concerning his contract of 
employment. When the investigator provided this information to DAS, it agreed- as I would 
expect it to- reconsider the claim again. Until that point however, I dont think DAS were 
wrong to decline the claim as it did. I appreciate Mr B thinks this is wrong but given the 
matter didnt appear to fall within cover, its reasonable that DAS would require something 
more than Mr Bs own opinion to reconsider things. In this case something from his Solicitor 
is what was needed as an initial starting point. DAS may well require more information 
beyond that including a legal analysis on whether the agreement amounts to a contract of 
employment and that the claim was one for negotiating Mr Bs legal rights under it- but thats 
up to DAS to consider as appropriate.
I know Mr B wants this Service to decide the outcome of his claim once that decision has 
been made by DAS. As the investigator explained, we cant do that now. We have a specific 
statutory remit which requires financial businesses to be given at least 8 weeks in which to 
reply to a complaint after its been made before we can look into things. Although Mr Bs 
complaint relates to the same claim, we can only decide the complaint as its been brought 
to us after the relevant referral time has expired. As such Im only able to determine Mr Bs 
complaint on this basis. If he remains unhappy with DASs stance after its reassessed his 
claim, he can refer the matter to us again as a fresh complaint. 
Turning now to the level of Service Mr B has complained about, I agree that there were 
delays in his claim being dealt with that shouldnt have occurred. DAS have also accepted 
that was the case since this complaint was brought to us. Therefore, the issue that remains 
for me to determine is whether the level of compensation offered is adequate. Mr B says the 
level should be at least £1,000, if not more. I dont agree. At present, I dont know whether 
his claim is one that is capable of cover. But for the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont think Mr 
B provided DAS with enough information to determine this anyway- particularly in the form of 
something from his Solicitor- setting out why the claim should be covered. So, I cant say 
that DASs delay in handling things wouldve made a difference to the action he took, 
namely, to defend the claim himself. As such I cant say that the impact of DAS actions was 
so considerable that he should be compensated for anything beyond poor claims handling at 
this point. DASs offer of £450 is intended to compensate him for this and given the specific 
complaint points Mr B has made- poor claims handling and delays- I think the amount offered is adequate and in line with what wed award in these circumstances. For that 
reason, I dont intend to award any more. 
Putting things right
DAS should pay Mr B £450 in recognition of the way it handled his claim in recognition of the 
delay in dealing with it.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to 
put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman