DRN-1536069
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy in 1990 to protect their existing mortgage repayments. 
The policy was in Mr Ss sole name and gave him cover against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. Santander cant confirm where 
the sale took place. Mr S says it wasnt in a branch, it was most likely taken out by 
correspondence. In cases like this the bank typically defaults to reviewing the sale as a 
branch sale and it assumes it recommended the policy. This is to Mr and Mrs Ss advantage 
as if Santander accepts it recommended the policy, then it had to do more during the sale. I 
will explain more about this later. I would reassure Mr and Mrs S though that in the 
circumstances of their complaint, the lack of records about the actual location of the sale 
does not impact the outcome of their complaint. 
I note Mr Ss point that it was Abbey National that sold the policy, so that firm is responsible 
for its conduct, but as Santander later acquired Abbey National it takes responsibility for the 
sale and the complaint. For simplicity, I will just refer to Santander in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as 
some of it is here), I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how 
Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the PPI was optional, and they had to 
agree to take it out. Santander doesnt have the paperwork from the sale and Mr and Mrs S 
havent been able to give much detail about the sale. But thats not surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago it was.  Mr and Mrs S say they accepted PPI as a 
necessary addition. They point to the wording on the leaflet strongly recommend and argue 
they were coerced. Santander says they would have been advised the policy was optional. 
Both parties agree Mr and Mrs S took out PPI as a standalone product when their mortgage 
was already in place. This suggests to me they would have known it wasnt mandatory, they didnt have to take it out to get the credit. And whilst Mr S has mentioned feeling pressured, 
Ive not found any evidence of anything Santander did that in my view amounted to unfair 
pressure to have the PPI. I disagree that the wording on the leaflet can be seen as coercion. 
And there was nothing on the application form, which its most likely they completed, that I 
think could have led them to believe the PPI was mandatory.
Overall, on balance, I think its most likely Santander made it clear the PPI was optional and 
Mr and Mrs S agreed to take it out for Mr S. I have considered Mr Ss comments carefully 
but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was. 
Santander says its likely it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S for Mr S. This means it 
had to make sure it was right for him. Based on what I know of his circumstances at the time 
I think it was suitable. I'll explain why. 
He was eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that would make 
it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract he had when the 
PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So he wouldnt have been affected by 
the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mr S told us he was entitled to three months sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any work benefits and for up to 36 months for each successful accident and 
sickness claim. It also gave him up to 12 months' redundancy cover. This would 
have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment he received from his 
employer, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Overall, given the 
serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against their home, I think the policy 
would have been useful for them if Mr S was sick or lost his job.
And Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale. I note 
Mr Ss response to the adjudicator about the cost, and the bank statements he has provided 
showing what he paid during the life of the policy. Whilst they confirm the level of PPI 
premium, this does not change my finding about the cost of the policy.  
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. Mr and Mrs S say the terms were never explained. I agree its possible 
Santander didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same reasons I find the 
policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision. I say this 
as Mr S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of main exclusions or limitations, and 
the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
It follows I dont think and Mr and Mrs S lost out because of any problems with the sale. I 
anticipate they will be disappointed with my findings, and I acknowledge they have invested 
significant time and effort in this complaint. But after carefully considering all the evidence I 
cant, on balance, fairly uphold their complaint for the reasons set out above.  
Mr S has said he was made redundant in 1991 but received no benefit from the policy. He 
should contact the insurer directly to find out if he is able to make a retrospective claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman