DRN-3897508
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Santander UK PLC acted unfairly when 
restricting and subsequently closing its bank account without notice or explanation.
Cs directors, Mr C and Mr T, bring the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
C banked with Santander. 
In May 2021, Santander undertook a review of Cs account. The bank applied a restriction to 
Cs account on 18 May, meaning that C couldnt make or receive payments. This remained 
in place while the review was conducted.
Cs directors complained to Santander, unhappy with both the restriction on the companys 
account and the lack of notice or explanation the bank had given for this action. Santander 
apologised for any inconvenience caused, but said only that it couldnt allow any 
transactions at the current time or any explanation for this.
The review culminated in Santander withdrawing its services from C. The bank wrote to C on 
or around 18 June 2021 to advise that it had closed the companys account, and enclosed a 
cheque for the closing account balance.
Cs directors dont think Santanders actions were justified. They say there was no court 
order requiring the bank to adopt such measures, and that no grounds or explanation for the 
restriction or closure of the account has been provided. The sudden restriction and removal 
of the account have, they say, caused C financial losses through additional charges and 
interest on overdue payments and a loss of working hours while attending to the matter, as 
well as damaging the companys reputation.
One of our investigators reviewed Cs complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, he said that Santander had shown that it had restricted and reviewed Cs account 
in order to fulfil its legal and regulatory obligations. And as the terms and conditions of the 
account entitled the bank to restrict and subsequently close the account in the manner it 
had, he couldnt see that it had done anything wrong.
Cs directors didnt accept our investigators view. They still believed that Santanders abrupt 
restriction and removal of Cs account had been unwarranted, particularly given their 
stringent compliance with the requirements of their own industry regulator, and that the bank 
had prolonged its retention of the companys funds. So they asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, Santander has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to 
meet in providing banking services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts 
and their use under review, and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The absence of a court order doesnt, as Cs directors have suggested, preclude the bank 
from taking such action. Cs compliance with the requirements of its own regulator, or the 
conduct of its business more broadly, wouldnt automatically remove or reduce Santanders 
rights or obligations in this regard either. 
The terms and conditions of Cs account allowed Santander to suspend its services. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so in the circumstances here. Santander has 
explained that it reviewed and restricted Cs account in order to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. 
And while I appreciate that it wouldve been concerning for Cs directors to discover the 
restriction, Santander wasnt required to notify C of the restriction or explain the reasons it 
had been applied.
C was unable to use its account while the review was completed, which took around one 
month. Theres no set timeframe within which such reviews must be concluded and I dont 
think one month was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
The findings of Santanders review led it to withdraw its services from C. That was a decision 
it was entitled to make, and the applicable terms and conditions allowed the bank to close 
Cs account immediately. Ive not seen anything to suggest that decision was reached 
unfairly or unreasonably. Again, Santander wasnt required to disclose the reasons for its 
decision to C and I cant fairly require it to do so. 
Santander released the account balance to C once it had concluded its review, sending a 
cheque with the letter it sent to the company in mid-June. So I dont think the bank retained 
Cs funds for any longer than necessary.
Ive no doubt that the restriction and closure of its account will have adversely affected Cs 
operations. But as Ive not found that Santander did anything wrong in taking these actions, 
there is no basis on which I could require it to compensate C for any impact they had.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman