DRN-3645335
The complaint
Miss M complains that Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance 
(CB) unfairly terminated her agreement and collected her car.
What happened
On 15 December 2021 Miss M acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with CB. The agreement was due to run for five years. The cash price of the car was 
£24,000. Miss M paid a £5,000 deposit, and the total charge for credit was £6,050.20, 
meaning the total amount payable over the term of the agreement was £30,050.20. 
On 20 December 2021 CB received an email from a third party, informing them that Miss M 
hadnt resided at the address on the agreement since June 2021. CB checked the status of 
Miss Ms vehicle and said that it wasnt taxed or insured. They tried to call Miss M but were 
unable to reach her. So, they decided to appoint a third party to recover Miss Ms vehicle. 
They said they wanted to protect it whilst they completed further investigations. 
On 22 December 2021 Miss M called CB as someone had attempted to collect the car. CB 
told Miss M they were undertaking investigations. Miss M told CB that the car was now 
insured she said shed been using her old car whilst this one was being serviced so she 
hadnt insured it immediately. Miss M said shed recently moved from the address on the 
application. 
A third party collected the car on behalf of CB on 30 December 2021. 
On 5 January 2022 Miss Ms car was sold at auction for £19,418. Miss M later asked if she 
could pay to settle the agreement and retain the car. The car was returned to the auction 
house in mid-January 2022. 
Miss M ultimately decided not to settle the agreement and complained to CB at the end of 
January 2022. Miss M said she gave all forms of ID requested to the dealership and did as 
she was asked. Miss M said shed been told to use her old address as thats where her bank 
account was registered. Miss M said the agreement shouldnt have been terminated and CB 
shouldnt have repossessed the car. 
CB sent Miss M their final response to her complaint in February 2022. They said their 
decision to terminate the agreement was correct. CB said their investigation had shown that 
Miss M hadnt been registered at the address she gave on the application since June 2021, 
the vehicle hadnt been taxed or insured, and the employment details Miss M had given 
werent correct. CB said Miss M had breached the agreement by providing incorrect 
information. They didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Miss M brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
the agreement was unfairly terminated, shed lost her £5,000 deposit, CB had profited when 
the car sold at auction, and they were asking her to pay a £5,632 shortfall. 
Our investigator gave her view that CB were able to terminate the agreement but, as Miss M 
had the car for such a short period of time, itd be fair for CB to unwind it with nothing further 
for Miss M to pay, to return Miss Ms £5,000 deposit and to remove the agreement from Miss 
Ms credit file. 
CB didnt agree. They said Miss M provided false information on her application, theyd sold 
the car for £14,750 at auction, and so Miss M still owed money under the agreement. CB 
said theyd asked the dealership to take the car back instead of selling it at auction, but 
theyd refused, and so they were unable to get Miss Ms deposit back from the dealership. 
CB said itd be unfair for them to refund this to Miss M, as theyd be out of pocket as a result.
 
Our investigator said that CB shouldve completed checks prior to accepting Miss Ms 
application and, if theyd done so, she didnt think theyd have offered Miss M the agreement. 
So, Miss Ms deposit should be refunded, and CB would need to take this up with the 
dealership. She said it wasnt reasonable for Miss M to be liable for the shortfall if the car 
was sold for less at auction. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms complaint relates to the supply of a car under a conditional sale agreement. This is 
a regulated consumer credit agreement, which means were able to look into complaints 
about it. 
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. 
CB say that Miss M provided false information on her application for the agreement, and so 
their decision to terminate the agreement was correct. 
Its not in dispute that Miss M provided an old address on her application. She says that she 
was given advice to do this by the dealership as the old address matched her bank account. 
Miss M said shed only recently moved out of the old address. 
Ive considered the agreement between CB and Miss M. It says that by signing the 
agreement, Miss M is confirming that all relevant information shes provided about herself 
and recorded in the agreement is correct. 
The agreement goes on to set out that if any information Miss M gave in connection with the 
making of the application is false or misleading, it will be considered an event of default 
which gives CB the right to terminate the agreement. 
So, Im satisfied that CB were entitled to terminate the agreement as Miss M had provided 
false information when making her application. 
Ive also considered whether CB acted fairly following recovery of the car. 
The car was recovered by agents on behalf of CB around two weeks after it was supplied to 
Miss M. So, she was in possession of the vehicle for a very short period of the original five 
year agreement term. CB say that Miss M wasnt registered at the address she provided for six months prior to 
entering the agreement. Miss M says shed only recently moved out. I havent seen the full 
investigation CB completed into Miss Ms address information. But I think they couldve 
completed these checks, or similar checks on the information Miss M provided, prior to 
entering the agreement. And, had they done so, I think its likely they wouldnt have offered 
the agreement to Miss M. 
CB collected the car from Miss M whilst they completed their investigations in order to 
protect it. Ive seen evidence that they then sold the car at auction around six days later. Im 
aware that Miss M disagrees with some of CBs investigation, such as her employment 
information. I havent seen any evidence that CB discussed their investigation or the 
outcome with Miss M, or that they considered Miss Ms correct information and whether this 
wouldve been acceptable to them. Theres a possibility that had her information been 
corrected on the agreement; it couldve continued rather than being terminated altogether. I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for CB to have considered Miss Ms correct information 
and whether they couldve amended and continued with the agreement. 
CB continued to charge Miss M for the monthly rentals under the agreement once the car 
had been collected, and after itd been sold at auction. Miss M was in possession of the car 
for only two weeks before it was collected, and it was never returned to her for her to use. 
All things considered; whilst I think that CB were entitled to terminate the agreement, I think 
it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for the agreement to be unwound 
with nothing further for Miss M to pay. Miss M was in possession of the vehicle for very little 
of the original five-year agreement term, and CB couldve done more in terms of initial 
checks or in a possible amendment to the agreement to avoid the need for it to be 
terminated. 
Miss M paid a £5,000 deposit for the car. CB have said they terminated the agreement, so 
they wont refund this. Theyve also said that the dealership wouldnt take the car back, so 
theyd be out of pocket if they were to refund the deposit to Miss M. 
As Miss M had the car for a very short period of time, and I think CB couldve done more in 
terms of checking Miss Ms details prior to entering the agreement, or to amend the 
agreement once the correct details were known, I dont think its fair for the deposit to be 
retained in the circumstances, and so CB should refund the £5,000 deposit to Miss M. 
Whether or not CB can recoup this from the dealership is between them. 
CB have incurred some costs in recovering the vehicle. CB say they recovered the vehicle in 
order to protect their asset whilst they investigated, and I dont think this was unreasonable. 
So, I think its fair for them to deduct the cost of recovery from the refund to Miss M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close 
Brothers Motor Finance must.
Unwind the agreement with nothing further for Miss M to pay.
Remove the agreement from Miss Ms credit file.
Return Miss Ms £5,000 deposit, less a deduction for costs incurred in recovering the 
vehicleUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman