DRN-4340322
The complaint
Mr S and Ms S are unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt remove Mr S from their joint bank
account as they should have done.
What happened
Mr S and Ms S held a joint bank account with Santander. In January 2022, they completed a
form which instructed Santander to remove Mr S from the account so that the account would
be in Ms Ss sole name moving forwards. Mr S handed this form to Santander in branch
shortly afterwards.
However, Santander didnt remove Mr S from the account as they should have done. And
this meant that when Ms S later encountered financial difficulty which resulted in adverse
credit file reporting for the account, this adverse reporting affected Mr Ss credit file also 
because he remained listed as a joint holder of the account. Mr S and Ms S werent happy
about this, so they raised a complaint.
Santander responded to the complaint. But they had no record of the joint-to-sole form being
received by them, and so didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by continuing to consider the
account as being in Mr S and Ms Ss joint names. Mr S and Ms S werent happy with
Santanders response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel it could fairly be said
that Santander should have removed Mr S from the account as Mr S and Ms S maintained,
and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S and Ms S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 August 2023 as follows:
Mr S has always maintained that he handed in the joint-to-sole form to Santander in January
2022, after completing the form with Ms S. Conversely, Santanders position is that they
have no record of ever receiving this form, and so had no reason to remove Mr S from the
account as Mr S and Ms S contend should have taken place.
In situations such as this, where the testimonies of the complainants and the respondent
business contradict one another, I must decide  if I feel its reasonably possible to do so 
which of the two versions of events I feel is most likely to have happened, on balance, and in
consideration of all the information available to me.
In this instance, I find the testimony of Mr S and Ms S to be the most persuasive here. This
is because, while Mr S and Ms S are no longer in a relationship and so have contacted this
service separately, their testimonies are consistent, with both parties confirming that Mr S
brought the form to Ms S, that the form was completed by them both as was required, and
that Mr S then handed in the form to Santander.
As such, I feel that its more likely than not that what happened here was that Mr S did hand
in the completed form in branch in January 2022, but that, for whatever reason, that form
was never actioned correctly upon its receipt by branch staff.
Accordingly, my provisional decision here is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr S and
Ms Ss favour, and that Santander must retroactively remove Mr S from the account from
January 2022 and remove all reporting relating to the account from Mr S's credit file from
and including February 2022 onwards  consistent with Mr S no longer being a holder of that
account from the end of January 2022.
However, I wont be instructing Santander to pay any compensation to Mr S and Ms S here.
This is because Santander have been able to show that Mr S accessed the account online
after January 2022. And I feel that this should reasonably have alerted Mr S to the fact that
he was still listed as a joint account holder at those times, such that he should reasonably
have mitigated against how matters developed here by contacting Santander and correcting
the matter with them much earlier than he did.
Santander responded to my provisional decision and reiterated that they havent been able 
to find any evidence of an error being made on their part and so didnt feel that they should 
be instructed to remove Mr S from the account as Ive provisionally instructed.
But not all errors can be evidenced, especially if the error is one of omission. And it remains 
my position that I find the version of events put forwards by Mr S and Mrs S to be the most 
persuasive. 
As such, my final decision here will be as Ive described it above, and Ill be upholding this 
complaint against Santander on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Santander must retroactively remove Mr S from the account in question from January 2022 
and remove all reporting relating to the account from Mr S's credit file consistent with Mr S 
no longer being a named party on that account from the end of January 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman