DRN-3697700
The complaint
Mrs E and Ms S complain about a transaction that left their joint account with National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
What happened
While this is a joint account, the transaction in question relates to a conversation Mrs E had 
with a scam caller. So I will refer to her in this decision, as Ms S wasnt party to the events 
that led to this complaint.
Mrs E received a scam call from which she thought was her telephone provider. The caller 
told her that her bank accounts had been hacked. She was instructed to transfer a small 
amount of money by the scammer, followed by a larger sum in order to lay bait for the 
hackers. Mrs E sent £2 and then tried to transfer £9,000 but this second payment didnt go 
through.
Later that day Mrs E looked at her banking and saw a £3,500 payment had left her account. 
Mrs E reported this payment to NatWest and it blocked the account and conducted a fraud 
investigation. The payment was made by telephone banking and after listening to the call, 
NatWest determined it was Mrs E making the payment and the money went to her account 
with another bank. Mrs E disagreed with this and complained, but NatWest didnt change its 
outcome. It said she wasnt due a refund under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
code) and it was satisfied it was her making this payment. It also didnt agree to refund the 
£2 payment. 
Mrs E brought the complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
concluded it was most likely Mrs E sending the money and she didnt agree she was due a 
reimbursement of these funds. Mrs E asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has provided us with her telephone bill to show the calls she made to NatWest. This 
shows three calls on 19 January  the day the scam took place. The first call is made at 
2:55pm, which matches NatWests records of the call Mrs E acknowledges she made to 
attempt to move £9,000  which cut off before the agent could complete any payment.
The second call is made at just before 3pm and lasts ten minutes. Mrs E says this second 
call was her trying to process the £9,000 payment and NatWest declining the request and 
then the payment being cancelled. NatWest disagrees and says this call was the £3,500 
transfer.
Its accepted by both parties that Mrs E made a second call, but what is therefore disputed is 
what was said in this call. The recording we have for the second call is where the £3,500 
payment is made and this occurred at 3pm. Having listened to this call it sounds exactly like 
Mrs Es voice. The recording for this lasts just over eight minutes, so also matches Mrs Es 
phone bill. Looking at the phone bill and listening to the call, it seems highly likely that this is 
the same call, allowing time for Mrs E to connect to NatWest, select the right department and 
be put through to an agent  which is when the recording starts.
I accept Mrs E says she didnt make this call and her voice mustve been spoofed using her 
first payment call. But NatWest has been able to confirm this call comes in from her mobile 
phone number. The caller provides all the right details and security for Mrs E. And during the 
call a code is text to her, which is then provided to the agent at NatWest without any delay, 
to allow the payment to go through.
Its very difficult to see how the hackers managed to use Mrs Es phone to make the call and 
also access the code, when she confirms no one else was with her when this happened, and 
NatWest have the correct mobile number on file. And considering she only spoke to the 
scammer that day, it seems highly unlikely it had been able to perfectly spoof her voice in 
that time. Its also unclear how they then knew the answer when asked for a partial 
password. And the agent also makes an error with the code so Mrs E has to correct him, 
which couldnt have been predicted. I also dont understand how there could be two active 
calls at once from the same phone. So I have to conclude its more likely that this payment 
was made by Mrs E and this is the call on her telephone bill.
Mrs E has told us that the scam caller was from her telephone service provider and they said 
her banking had been hacked. But then shes later told us the scammer advised her to make 
the payments as a bet and she was paying into cryptocurrency. Its unclear how she was 
protecting her accounts or catching a hacker by making a cryptocurrency investment, but 
this wasnt raised initially with NatWest. Mrs Es story therefore does have inconsistencies 
and so is difficult to place much weight on, especially when NatWest has a clear payment 
call.
If this was an unauthorised payment the code wouldnt apply. But as NatWest considers it 
was authorised, it has considered the code. NatWest provided Mrs E with a scam warning 
during the payment call. In this call it asks her about the payment shes making and 
specifically asks if shes been asked to move money by someone and/or if shes been asked 
to download any software. She says no to both of these things, even though, based on her 
original testimony, this isnt true. So she isnt honest with the agent in the call. And based on 
the inconsistencies in Mrs Es testimony I cant safely say she has lost this money as the 
result of a scam. But in any event as Mrs E was paying an account in her own name, she 
wouldnt be due any reimbursement under the code. The code specifically sets out that it 
covers payments to another person, so a transfer between Mrs Es accounts wouldnt be 
covered.
I appreciate Mrs E says this was a sophisticated scam and she didnt make the £3,500 
payment. But I cant say NatWest has done anything wrong in concluding this was an 
authorised payment and not reimbursing Mrs E.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs E and Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman