DRN-3853776
The complaint
Mr O has complained about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a claim under 
his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr O contacted IPA to send an engineer when he found a leak in his bathroom. The next 
day an engineer visited. He told Mr O what he thought needed to be done to find the leak 
and it was agreed an engineer would visit the following week to carry out the work because 
of the disruption it would cause.
When the next engineer visited, he found the leak but didnt have a part with him to 
reconnect two pipes and left the property. Mr O then spoke to IPA because he had been left 
without bathing facilities. After some discussion, IPA sent an engineer to reconnect the pipe. 
When the engineer visited, Mr Os father in law was there. The engineer fitted the pipe but 
didnt refit items such as the taps and the shower screen. Mr Os father in law asked the 
engineer to do this and after some discussion, the engineer fitted the bath tap, but not the 
shower tap or other items.
When Mr O complained to IPA, he said he wanted the engineer to refit the shower and deal 
with the damage caused to his home. When IPA replied, it said it had acted in line with the 
terms of the policy, which said it would leave the home habitable but wouldnt be responsible 
for reinstating it to its original condition. It said Mr O had also signed a disclaimer agreeing 
that IPA wasnt responsible for any damage. However, it partially agreed that it was poor 
customer service that the repair wasnt completed when one of the engineers visited. It 
offered £300 as an apology.
So, Mr O complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
IPA had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt need to do anything further.
As Mr O didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 2 December 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When Mr O contacted IPA, he needed trace and access to find the source of a leak. Looking 
at the terms and conditions of the policy, these said:
Trace and access to locate the source of the emergency is not covered.
So, this meant IPA shouldnt have sent an engineer to find the leak, as Mr O didnt have that 
cover. I raised this with IPA. It reviewed the policy and agreed there wasnt cover. 
For complaints about trace and access, I would normally look at the terms and conditions to 
see what the policy said this work covered, including whether it would fix any damage made 
by its engineers as part of gaining access. As the policy doesnt cover trace and access that 
isnt possible for this complaint. However, even in the circumstances of this complaint, IPA 
should still have been clear with Mr O about the level of damage likely to be caused and 
whether it would fix it.
IPA has pointed to a General Condition of the policy that said:
When we make a repair we will leave your home safe and habitable but we will not be 
responsible for reinstating it to its original condition
The General Condition needs to be read in the context of what the policy provided cover for, 
which was a range of emergencies such as issues with plumbing, electrics and leaks. So, in 
that context, I think its reasonable to take it to mean that, for example, where a leak has 
damaged the floor, IPA wont fix the floor. Given the policy didnt cover trace and access, I 
dont think this condition can simply be applied to that work. Trace and access is also 
different, as it often results in the engineer having to cause further damage in order to find 
the source of the leak. 
IPA has also said Mr O signed a disclaimer to say he accepted IPA wasnt responsible for 
any damage. Ive looked at the job sheets. This had a section that was titled Agreed work 
required to reinstate damage caused through gaining access. This didnt list any work. 
However, an engineer had written on one of the forms Not responsible for further damage. 
Im aware Mr O has said the engineer added this wording to the form after it had been 
signed.
This wording was on the form filled out at the final visit. The instructions to the engineer said 
Bath and shower previously isolated. Customer wants it reinstating as per [IPA]. Customer 
liable for any property damage caused as the leak will [recur]. Get disclaimer signed from 
customer stating [the contractor] are not liable for any damage caused.
So, my understanding is that the wording the engineer added to the form was because there 
was a concern the repair would fail. It wasnt about damage caused by trace and access. 
Based on what Ive seen, I havent seen anything that currently persuades me it was made 
clear to Mr O that IPA wouldnt deal with the damage caused by the trace and access work. 
Where a term is ambiguous, I would often interpret this in favour of the consumer. In this 
instance, there arent terms and conditions to rely on. I can understand that in the absence 
of IPA providing him with information to the contrary, Mr O expected IPA to fix any damage it 
caused. 
Im also aware damage was caused to the living room wall when two engineers assessed it 
to be a stud wall rather than a solid brick wall and mistakenly thought they could access the 
leak through it. It isnt clear to me why they incorrectly assessed the wall. It also isnt clear to 
me why an engineer removed the shower screen. I asked IPA, but it was unable to explain 
this. I havent seen anything that shows me this work was necessary and I think this 
inconvenienced Mr O.
Im aware IPA has said Mr O received a benefit by it carrying out the trace and access 
work when it wasnt available under the policy. I can see that if IPA had correctly read the 
policy, it wouldnt have done this work and its likely Mr O would have had to pay someone 
else to do it or had the inconvenience of trying to find the leak himself. However, IPA carried 
out the work and the mistake in sending an engineer was IPAs and not down to the actions 
of Mr O. IPA still needed to make it clear to Mr O what work it would or wouldnt carry out. Mr 
O could then have made an informed decision, including about whether he thought it was 
reasonable to agree to an engineer cutting through his living room wall or to remove the 
shower screen.So, having thought carefully about the circumstances of this complaint, I currently think IPA 
needs to repair the trace and access damage. This is the damage to the living room wall, the 
tiles removed in the bathroom, the shower being disconnected, the broken bath panel and 
the shower screen being removed.
Ive also thought about compensation. A key issue in this complaint is that IPA misread the 
terms and conditions. Even when it dealt with the complaint, IPA seemed not to notice this. 
This seems to be some of the reason there is a difference in view between IPA and Mr O 
about how the claim should have been dealt with. Both parties thought trace and access was 
covered, neither party was correct. But it was for IPA to provide the right advice about cover 
under the policy and correctly instruct its contractors. It didnt do that and, in my view, this 
has led to confusion, including Mr O thinking his claim and complaint hasnt been fairly dealt 
with.
IPA already offered Mr O £300 compensation to recognise the inconvenience caused to him. 
Looking at everything that happened, I currently intend to say IPA should pay a total of £400 
compensation, which includes the £300 already offered, as I think this more fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused to Mr O.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 December 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr O agreed with the decision.
IPA didnt agree with the decision. It said it felt Mr O had benefitted from assistance he 
wasnt entitled to and the disclaimer was signed to avoid such situations and liability. It said 
the home insurance was in place for reinstatement work and IPA wouldnt cover both repair 
damages and those from the peril itself, otherwise the home insurance policy would be null 
and void.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the comments from IPA. 
In my provisional decision, I commented both on Mr O benefitting from trace and access 
being provided when it wasnt covered by the policy and on the disclaimer that was signed. 
Although IPA has said it wouldnt cover repair damages, which I take to mean damage 
caused by trace and access, in the absence of terms and conditions for it to rely on, I had to 
decide what was reasonable based on the circumstances of this case. I have also specified 
what damage IPA needs to deal with. This doesnt include any wider damage caused by the 
leak itself. IPA hasnt provided information or evidence that persuades me I should change 
my view on how this complaint should be resolved.
Putting things right
IPA should repair the trace and access damage, which is the living room wall, the tiles 
removed in the bathroom, the shower being disconnected, the broken bath panel and the 
shower screen being removed. It should also pay a total of £400 compensation, which 
includes the £300 it previously offered.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
Repair the trace and access damage to Mr Os home, as described in Putting things 
right above.
Pay Mr O a total of £400 compensation, which includes the £300 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman