DRN-3384217
The complaint
Mrs R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund a payment she 
made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In February 2019, Mrs R received proceeds from the sale of her house. She wasnt looking 
to purchase another property straight away, so looked for short-term investment options.
Mrs R was introduced to an investment opportunity by a wealth consultant, whom Ill refer to 
as G. Mrs R had invested through G previously for a much smaller amount, and had 
successfully received her capital and interest at the end of the investment. The investment 
opportunity G presented to Mrs R was a secured loan note in a property development 
company  Ill refer to as M. Mrs R says shes invested in this type of company previously 
and not had any problems.
Mrs R says she didnt receive any documentation from M prior to making the investment, 
however she went to their registered address and met one of their directors  accompanied 
by G. Mrs R was assured M were a secure company with assets and a sound business plan 
including properties being developed overseas as well as in the UK. Mrs R believes G visited 
the site of two of Ms UK property developments. G didnt give Mrs R a suitability report prior 
to the investment, and Mrs R says she wasnt aware that G was paid an introductory fee for 
her investment. Mrs R says she checked M on Companies House and was satisfied that M 
was a genuine firm.
M offered two separate secured loan notes, one required a minimum investment of £10,000 
and offered a return of 12% per annum for an 18 month term. The second loan note required 
a minimum investment of £30,000 for a return of 12% per annum for a 12 month term. Mrs R 
only wanted to invest her money short term as she was planning on buying a new home, and 
was offered a bespoke contract with a 6 month term, that offered a 6% return for the term  
so the equivalent of 12% per annum.
On 8 February 2019, Mrs R attended a NatWest branch to make her investment payment of 
£306,000. Due to the size of the payment, NatWest asked Mrs R various questions about 
the purpose of her payment, to identify if Mrs R was potentially the victim of a scam. As a 
result of their discussion Mrs R didnt proceed with the payment on that day so she could do 
further checks on M. 
On 11 February 2019, Mrs R returned to a NatWest branch and following another discussion 
about the purpose of the payment, made the payment. Mrs R transferred £306,000 and paid 
a £23 CHAPS payment fee.
In August 2019, Mrs Rs investment with M matured at the end of the six-month investment 
term. At that point her investment was worth just over £320,000 including the interest 
earned. Mrs R says she was encouraged to roll her investment over for another six-month 
term which she did  although she withdrew £6,000 in capital and £300 in interest, which 
was paid out to her NatWest account. Mrs R says this was money her husband had given 
her to invest on his behalf, and he hadnt wanted to roll it over for another term.
Mrs R was concerned after rolling her investment over, as she didnt receive documentation 
to confirm her new investment until May 2020. At that point she saw the new maturity date 
was 2022, which wasnt the six months shed agreed to. Mrs R was told the delay in getting 
the documentation was due to the pandemic and Ms staff not being in their offices.
In January 2021, Mrs R got an email from M saying they were seeking insolvency advice, 
however it didnt confirm if they were insolvent or not. Mrs R tried to get in touch with the 
trustee for the investment and didnt get a response. Mrs R says he only responded after she 
had contacted the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mrs R has been unable to retrieve any 
further funds from her investment and in September 2021 a winding up order was issued for 
M.
Mrs R contacted NatWest in February 2021 and raised a fraud complaint, saying the 
investment was a scam.
NatWest investigated Mrs Rs fraud complaint but didnt refund her, saying they didnt 
consider it to have been fraud. And, that while theyd contacted the beneficiary bank as soon 
as Mrs R contacted them, no funds were recoverable.
Mrs R wasnt happy with NatWests response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Rs complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator said 
NatWest had asked Mrs R questions about the payment to identify if she was potentially the 
victim of a scam, however there wasnt information available at the time that suggested the 
investment wasnt genuine. And, that NatWest had asked Mrs R to undertake some 
additional checks before they allowed the payment to go through  which is what we 
wouldve expected. The investigator also said its unclear if it was a scam, as after her initial 
six-month investment matured Mrs R was able to withdraw some of the funds and roll the 
balance of the funds into a new investment. 
Mrs R disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying she believes NatWest mayve been 
suspicious of M being a scam, hence why they asked her to do more checks. However, they 
never explicitly made it clear to her they had concerns. And she felt the fact they let the 
payment go through, was proof they were satisfied the investment was genuine. Mrs R feels 
NatWest have failed under their duty of care to her, and that they shouldve put a charge 
against M at the time she raised her fraud claim with them as that mayve recovered her 
funds  given M hadnt entered into liquidation at that point.
As Mrs R disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly in processing Mrs Rs payment, or 
whether they shouldve done more to prevent the payment from being made.
Should NatWest have done more to prevent the payment?
When Mrs R first went into a NatWest branch to make the payment of £306,000, NatWest 
took steps to try and identify if Mrs R may have been making the payment as part of a scam.
They asked Mrs R several questions, which included asking whether she was making the 
payment off the back of a call from someone pretending to be the police or her bank, and 
whether she had been cold called. NatWest also questioned Mrs R about what the payment 
was for and their contact notes from the time set out that Mrs R had sold her house and had 
received the proceeds from the sale. The notes said Mrs R was considering buying another 
property in future, and this payment was her investing those funds. They went on to say 
Customer wants to delay till Friday to do extra checks following our conversation on fraud 
and scams and noted that Mrs R was adamant that she knew the person who had advised 
her on the investment and that theyd advised her in the past.
Mrs R didnt make the payment on that day and did go away to do further checks, returning 
to the branch two days later.
When Mrs R returned to the branch, she was questioned again including a repeat of some of 
the questions shed been asked during her previous visit. The contact notes about the 
discussion include payment delayed from Wed so that extra checks could be completed. 
Customer adamant everything above board and that she has made investments via this 
Financial Advisor in the past although with a different company.
From what Ive seen NatWest asked appropriate and sufficient questions to satisfy itself that 
Mrs R wasnt the victim of a scam, prior to following her instructions and processing her 
payment. Im not persuaded that NatWest shouldve intervened any further or refused to 
make the payment for Mrs R.
I appreciate that it appears unlikely Mrs R will get her money back, but NatWest arent 
required to do research into the investment Mrs R was making, do checks on the person 
who gave her the investment advice or the investment she was entering into. I think its 
important to note in this case, that at the time Mrs R made the investment, she had sought 
independent advice (independent to NatWest) from someone she had used before and trusted. Im not persuaded there is anything that Mrs R said that shouldve concerned 
NatWest in these circumstances or caused them to not follow Mrs Rs payment instructions.
I think its also worth noting that when Mrs Rs initial investment, which was made in 
February 2019, matured in August 2019 it appeared to be available for her to withdraw her 
funds. I understand that she was encouraged to roll her investment over, but she was able to 
withdraw £6,000 from the investment successfully  and its possible she couldve withdrawn 
all of her investment at that point. So, its not clear that this was a scam, or whether it was an 
investment in a firm that unfortunately has gone on to have financial problems.
Mrs R raised concerns because she believes NatWest mayve been suspicious of M being a 
scam, and thats why they asked her to do more checks. However, I havent seen anything 
that suggests that, and it certainly isnt suggested in their contact notes which detail the 
questions they asked Mrs R when she attended the branch. From what Ive seen, Mrs R was 
making a very large payment and NatWest asked appropriate and relevant questions to 
satisfy themselves she wasnt the potential victim of a scam. I cant agree with Mrs R that 
NatWest have acted unfairly or unreasonably, or that they shouldve acted differently. Also I 
think the investment being recommended to Mrs R by G, who had previously given her 
successful investment advice and who she told NatWest she trusted  wouldve given them 
a certain level of reassurance about it being a genuine investment. And, Mrs R had done 
quite a bit of due diligence herself on M, both in doing checks and meeting with one of the 
directors at Ms registered office.
NatWest did contact the beneficiary bank to see if they could recover Mrs Rs funds once 
she raised the fraud claim, however no funds were recoverable. Mrs R suggested NatWest 
shouldve put a charge against M, but that isnt an action I would expect NatWest to take and 
is more appropriate in relation to civil action being taken against M  which would be 
something Mrs R would need to do.
I am truly sorry for the situation that Mrs R has found herself in, having lost the proceeds of 
her house sale and the serious impact its had on both her financial wellbeing and her health. 
But Im satisfied that NatWest asked appropriate questions and acted reasonably in following      
Mrs Rs payment instructions without intervening further, therefore I cant fairly ask NatWest 
to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman