DRN-2544404
The complaint
Mr H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
unfairly declined a claim due to an exclusion on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr Hs pet dog (A) is insured with Red Sands. There was an exclusion applied to the 
policy in 2019 for Growths, Tumours and Cancers and Resulting Conditions
In May 2020 A was seen by the vet for a swollen toe and medication was given to 
treat an infected nail bed.
In early June 2020 A was seen again and the vet thought it now looked like an 
interdigital cyst and further medication was prescribed.
In late June the toe wasnt getting any better, and amputation was discussed. The vet 
recommended x-rays and biopsy to be carried out, but Mr H declined this due to As 
age and welfare as he didnt want her to be sedated more than once so he opted to 
proceed with the surgery.
Mr H submitted a claim to Red Sands, but it was declined because the vet had 
recorded the condition as a suspected tumour.
Mr H says he was never told this, he thought As toe was only being treated for an 
infection. He also said the lump was never diagnosed as a tumour so feels it is unfair 
for the claim to be declined.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt where a 
definitive diagnosis had not been made, it was fair for the insurer to rely on what is 
recorded by the vet as the most likely diagnosis. So, she felt it was fair for Red Sands 
to decline the claim.
Mr H disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why, but firstly Id like to say Im 
sorry to hear that since bringing this complaint to our service A has sadly passed away. 
Ive considered all the evidence provided, including the veterinary history  this is known to 
all parties, so I dont intend to list it again as it was detailed in our investigators view.  And I 
can see Mr H feels that the only diagnosis given was for an infected toe when A was 
physically seen on 14 May 2020. 
Whilst I agree that this was the diagnosis at the time I can see when Mr H contacted the vet 
in early June and provided a photo of the toe, the vet recorded a new diagnosis of 
interdigital cyst based on its presentation.
 
Unfortunately, the toe wasnt getting better, and later in June the vet recorded that it could be 
a tumour rather than cyst albeit I can see that this diagnosis wasnt confirmed as biopsy 
wasnt done. I can understand Mr Hs reasoning for not wanting to put A through two lots of 
sedation to have x-rays and a biopsy completed and then followed by surgery. But that does 
mean Red Sands has to rely on what is recorded by the vet. I can see Mr H has tried to get 
more information from the vet who recorded the information, but she has since left the 
surgery.
 
Having looked at the history Im more persuaded that the discussions move on from an 
infected toe and that the most likely diagnosis to be that of a growth/tumour. I therefore think 
it was fair for Red Sands to decline the claim under the exclusion that was on the policy. So, 
I wont be asking Red Sands to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman