DRN-2838256
The complaint
Miss B complains about the service she received from Claim Easy Ltd when it represented 
her in a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In mid-2017 Miss B instructed Claim Easy to represent her in a claim for mis-sold PPI 
against a lender. 
In June 2020, the lender upheld Miss Bs complaint and made a settlement offer. Claim Easy 
forwarded the acceptance form to Miss B and this was completed and returned to the lender. 
But Miss B didnt receive the payment from the lender until November 2020.
 
Miss B raised concerns about Claim Easys handling of her claim. She was unhappy that 
shed had to make several phone calls to Claim Easy to chase up her payment from the 
lender. Claim Easy offered to reduce its success fee from 35% (plus VAT) to 20% (plus 
VAT). But Miss B didnt think this was enough to put things right. She was also unhappy 
about a delay in being called back by a manager.
 
Our investigator looked into Miss Bs concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. He acknowledged that Claim Easy had contributed to a delay in the lender receiving 
a valid signature to allow them to release the payment. He also felt Claim Easys 
communication with Miss B could have been better. But he thought Claim Easys offer to 
reduce its fee was reasonable.
Miss B said she didnt feel she received the service shed been charged for. She asked for 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
When Miss B engaged Claim Easys services in 2017, she agreed to its fee of 35% plus 
VAT of the redress which we obtain for you as a result of a successful claim.
Miss Bs complaint relates to the service she received from Claim Easy following the 
settlement offer from the lender in June 2020. Claim Easys notes show that it sent Miss Bs 
acceptance form to the lender as soon as it received it back from her, in early July. I can see 
that Miss B phoned Claim Easy several times to chase up the payment. Claim Easy says it 
also chased the lender several times, but it was only able to do so by spreadsheet. 
Claim Easys notes show the lender informed it that Miss Bs signature didnt match its 
records on 17 August 2020. Claim Easy doesnt appear to have told Miss B what she 
needed to do to sort this out until she phoned it on 2 September. Its possible Miss B might 
have received her payment a bit sooner if Claim Easy had passed this information on earlier. 
But most of the delay appears to have been outside of Claim Easys control. 
I appreciate Miss B feels that the service she received from Claim Easy was inadequate and 
she would like the fee to be waived. But Im satisfied that Claim Easy brought Miss Bs PPI 
claim to the lender and this resulted in her receiving redress. Miss B agreed to Claim Easys 
fee on a No Win, No Fee basis. So, the fee didnt need to reflect the amount of work or 
time Claim Easy spent on her case. 
I dont doubt that Miss B experienced some frustration and inconvenience while chasing the 
settlement from the lender. I think Claim Easys communication with her could have been 
better at times. But Claim Easy has already offered to reduce its fee from 35% (plus VAT) to 
20% (plus VAT). And I think this is reasonable compensation for any trouble and upset it 
may have caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman