DRN-3744376
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Mulberry Wealth Management Limited (MWM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr P approached MWM in November 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Mr P was concerned with the situation surrounding the BSPS. He had a friend who had 
received advice from MWM and so decided to seek advice from them himself. 
MWM completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and 
objectives. This was first completed on 27 November 2017. It was signed by Mr P on 
19 January 2018 in an advice meeting. This showed that:
He was 36 years old.
He was married and had two young children. 
He was employed (by a different employer) earning £56,000 a year. His wife was 
also employed and earned £23,000.
They owned their own home, valued at £400,000 which was subject to a mortgage.
They owned a second property, also subject to a mortgage, which was rented. 
He had a modest personal loan and credit card balances. 
They were living within their means. 
He had no savings or investments, and it was recorded that he and Mrs P were 
essentially investing in their property. 
MWM also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, which it said was moderate 
to adventurous. Mr P said he could tolerate some losses to his DB scheme benefits but this 
wouldnt be desirable. 
In respect of his pension arrangements Mr P had deferred benefits with the BSPS. A cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV') quotation was issued on 7 November 2017. The transfer 
value was £95,725.13. 
Mr P also had a second DB scheme but details of this werent provided. And he was a 
member of his employers current occupational scheme which was a defined contribution 
(DC) group personal pension. He was contributing 4.4% of his income into this and his 
employer also contributed 6.6%. Making a total of 11%. 
On 22 January 2018, MWM advised Mr P to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in funds that met his attitude to risk. The suitability report 
said the reasons for this recommendation were, in summary:
Mr P had concerns over the future management of the proposed BSPS2 scheme, 
and he did not trust his ex-employer to fund and run the scheme efficiently. He felt 
the situation that had arisen around BSPS was unacceptable. 
He wanted to control his pension benefits and take them flexibly in the future. He 
may want to reduce the income his private pensions provided when he reached state 
pension age. And take tax free cash when he needed it
He wanted to potentially retire at his age 60. A personal pension was the only way he 
could do this without reduction. 
He didnt think that the revaluation rate of the BSPS2, the consumer price index plus 
2% was particularly generous. He thought this could be bettered. 
Given that he was a member of his current employers DC scheme he felt he could 
risk his BSPS benefits. 
He also felt that the projected pension from the BSPS2 could be improved on. 
He was attracted to the better death benefits in a personal pension. That would 
enable him to pass his pension fund onto his wife and immediate family.
The personal pension had the opportunity for greater tax-free cash.
Mr P accepted MWMs recommendation and transferred his BSPS funds to a personal 
pension.
Mr P complained in 2021 to MWM about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that he 
was unsure that the advice he had received from MWM was appropriate for him. 
MWM didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that Mr P received detailed and accurate 
information about the BSPS and the situation. He received appropriate advice and risk 
warnings. The advice was suitable for him and encompassed his needs and requirements at 
the time. MWM also noted that the advice has been reviewed by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and found to be suitable. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that MWM pay compensation. She said that although there was a chance that 
the personal pension would result in higher benefits, she didnt think it was established that it 
was in Mr Ps best interests to transfer. Overall, he would have benefitted more from keeping 
his guaranteed DB scheme benefits. She didnt think it was likely that he fully understood 
what he was giving up. She thought Mr P would have remained in the BSPS2 if he was 
given suitable advice. 
MWM disagreed, saying:
Its advice was suitable for Mr Ps circumstances and objectives at that time. It also 
said it gave Mr P enough information to make an informed decision. 
It shouldnt have advised Mr P to opt into the BSPS2 at that time as it wasnt certain 
to be established. It said if Mr P had opted in to the BSPS2, and it didnt go ahead, 
his BSPS pension funds would have moved into the PPF. 
The PPF was the only reasonable comparator here. It was not required to guarantee that the transfer was suitable for Mr P. It only had to 
take reasonable steps to ensure suitability, which it did. 
It said the Financial Ombudsman Service had placed a disproportionate reliance on 
critical yield and discount rate analysis. This may not be relevant as the BSPS2 was 
not certain to go ahead
The transfer met his objectives of flexibility in retirement and providing more suitable 
death benefits. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
MWM says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr P. I agree that under the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) MWM was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr P was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). 
However, additional regulations apply when advising on transferring out of DB schemes. 
These additional regulations say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business should only have considered a transfer 
out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ps best interests (COBS 
19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests. Ill explain why.In arriving at my findings, I've noted that MWM provided an FCA review of the advice which 
MWM says shows the advice was suitable. But there is almost no information about exactly 
what this review considered, and so Im not able to place any weight on this. 
Financial viability 
MWM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
MWM has said that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only worthwhile comparison it 
could provide was with the benefits available to Mr P through the PPF. But Mr P had already 
opted for the BSPS2 and the point of sale documentation does contain information about the 
BSPS2 and the PPF, which correctly reflects the situation here. So, its not clear to me why 
MWM has said this.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr P was 36 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire between the ages of 60 and 65. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Ps benefits from the BSPS2 at age 65 was 5.13% if 
he took a full pension and 4.36% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The same 
calculations at his age 60 were 6.10% and 5.24% respectively. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
4.78% per year if Mr P took a full pension and 4.56% per year if he took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension. The same figures at his age 60 were 5.46% and 5.24%. 
The suitability report stated that the yields at his age 60 and 65 were certainly achievable to 
match the scheme pension benefits offered by BSPS2. Especially as Mr P was a moderate 
risk investor and that he was very likely to access his tax-free cash entitlement.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% per year for 28 years to retirement, at his age 65. And 4.6% per year for 23 years 
to retirement, at his age 60. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ps 
moderate to adventurous attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
Mr P had a relatively high attitude to risk. And I can accept, given his financial situation and 
the time he had to retirement, he would have been able to take some risk with his pension 
planning. That said, I would have expected a higher risk investor to have some investment 
experience and have been familiar with fluctuating investments. This isnt the case here. And 
Mr P seems to have invested for his future in what he thought were more secure areas such 
as his property. And he said he didnt really want to risk his DB scheme benefits. I think this attitude to risk classification is far from conclusive and if MWM had explored this a little 
further Im not persuaded that he would have had a high tolerance to risk for this transaction.  
That said, there would be little point in Mr P giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, given the lower critical yields were in the region of 4.5%, I think its not 
certain that Mr P could improve significantly on the DB scheme benefits at retirement at 65. 
And at his intended earlier retirement age of 60 this becomes more unlikely. There is a 
significant risk that he could receive much lower benefits, as a result of investing in line with 
his attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF. Im not 
persuaded that he wanted to take this risk. 
MWM has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr P wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, MWMs models show that if 
Mr P took the same benefits as the BSPS2, and it increased by the retail price index then the 
fund would run out at his age 81 or 82 if he took benefits at his age 65. Assuming it grew at a 
medium rate of return. The same figures if he took benefits at age 60 were 77 and 78. So if 
there was a period of poor performance or Mr P lived a long time past his life expectancy of 
somewhere between 70 and 80, then the fund could be particularly depleted.
Also, as MWM will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
Further, MWM also produced a transfer value comparator which showed what Mr Ps fund 
would need to grow by if he wanted to match the BSPS2 benefits by buying an annuity. The 
fund required to purchase the annuity at age 65 was £179,615.52, or £159,965.80 if tax-free 
cash was taken. The same funds at age 60 were £173,607.40 and £156,664.48 respectively. 
These are reasonably high amounts, and they give a revealing window into the cost of the 
benefits Mr P was giving up. 
MWM also says that the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the 
growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis 
as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. MWM says Mr P didnt want an annuity, it said 
he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required MWM to consider the rate 
of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant 
consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr P could realistically say with any certainty 
whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to 
retire for around another 23 years. Its entirely possible that Mr P would want at least some 
guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB 
scheme).
MWM says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings solely on this, I think it is a useful additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 
the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB 
scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. So, 
businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered a reasonable 
assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in tandem with 
the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is 
this combination, along with Mr Ps attitude to risk, which leads me to believe there was a good chance he could be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme. 
Especially if he retired early as he wanted to. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ps best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as MWM 
has said. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the main reasons that MWM recommended this transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered Mr P. It's evident that Mr P could not take his DB scheme benefits 
flexibly in the same way as a personal pension. Although he could choose to take tax-free 
cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr P had to take those benefits at the same time. 
Mr P was far away from retirement, so there wasnt a detailed analysis of what his income or 
expenditure needs would be at this time. The retirement planning, what there was of it, was 
based on Mr P wanting an income of 60 to 65% of his salary from around age 60. He said he 
wanted to live a simple life. This is vague, but I can accept that given that his retirement was 
such a long time away, it would be difficult to provide a lot of detail about his needs then.  
But of course, this also means that it wasnt really established that Mr P had a genuine need 
to access his tax-free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his 
funds invested until a later date. It was discussed that he may want to do this in the future, to 
perhaps allow him to retire early, but there was no immediate need to do this. And I note his 
only significant debt, his mortgage, shouldve been paid before he retired. So, I dont think 
there was any particular need for a lump sum, it seems more of a nice to have. 
Turning to the income he could receive, the BSPS2 could have provided an annual pension 
at 65 of £7,788 or a tax-free cash payment of £35,872 and a reduced annual pension of 
£5,380. At age 60 it could provide an annual pension of £6,620 or tax-free cash of £31,754 
and an annual pension of £4,763. 
Similarly, the PPF would provide an annual pension of £7,102.65 at 65 and tax-free cash of 
£37,912.89 plus an annual pension of £5,686.93. At age 60 it would provide an annual 
pension of £5,571.18 or tax-free cash of £31,762.18 plus an annual pension of £4,769.50.  
So, I think its reasonable to say Mr P probably wouldnt have been able to meet his aims 
just with his BSPS2 pension. And this was documented at the time of sale. 
But there are other factors to consider here. Mr and Mrs P would both receive their state 
pensions. And this would go some way to meeting their needs. Any shortfall would be most 
acute if Mr P wanted to retire early some time before his state pension age. MWM says the 
flexibility of the personal pension would have allowed him to draw the required income until 
his state pension became payable. 
But at the time of sale Mr P was a member of his employers new DC scheme and he would 
be building up a fund over the next 24 years or so (as a minimum), through this. As a very 
rough estimate, given his salary, the total amount going into the scheme each month would 
be about £510. Even without taking investment growth into account, it would be worth in the 
region of £147,700. And by assuming modest growth of 2% over 24 years, the funds could 
be worth in the region of £189,000 by the time Mr P was 60. 
And Mr P also had another DB scheme pension that I understand had an annual benefit of 
around £1,000 a year. And modest DC scheme benefits. Mrs P was also working at the time, her pension details werent recorded but given her occupation she may have also had 
access to a DB scheme. I think it was a serious failing on MWMs part not to fully consider 
her occupation and likely pension income before giving advice here as their overall situation 
was important.
This means that at age 60 or 65, if Mr P remained in the BSPS2, he could take an annual 
increasing pension. Given that there wasnt any certainty around the need for tax-free cash 
(even if it was recorded that he did want to do this) I think its likely that Mr P couldve met 
his income needs until his state pension became payable at age 68. I think its likely any 
shortfall couldve been met by Mr P accessing income or tax-free cash from his DC scheme. 
Mr P would have likely had a significant pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he needed, 
to top up his income or take additional lump sums. So, I dont think Mr P would have had to 
sacrifice flexibility in retirement by staying in the BSPS2.
But even if this didnt entirely work out. As Ive set out above, Mr P was unlikely to obtain 
better benefits at retirement if he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So, as a 
starting point I think Mr P had a better chance of achieving his retirement aims by opting into 
the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on 
investment growth in a personal pension. 
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr P had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. 
As Ive detailed above, the income from the PPF could be slightly lower than the pension 
hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont think it was substantially lower such that it 
shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. And, in fact, if he were to retire at age 
60, the initial benefits were slightly higher from the PPF than those from the BSPS2. Mr P 
wouldve also had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became payable. So, I 
still think Mr P couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead 
and hed had to move with it to the PPF.
I also think its likely, as is usually the case going forward from this stage of life, that Mr Ps 
circumstances and needs would change. And the planning should have encompassed this 
likelihood. Keeping as many of his options open to him as possible wouldve been in Mr Ps 
best interest here.
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr P to give up his guaranteed 
benefits when he didnt really know what his needs in retirement would be. And I think Mr P 
couldve most likely met his income needs by remaining in the BSPS2. Furthermore, if Mr P 
later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme, he could have done so closer to 
retirement.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr P could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests for him to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr P. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr P might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think MWM explored to what extent 
Mr P was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr P 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to his dependents if Mr P predeceased them. I dont think 
MWM made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr P. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not 
have been a large sum left particularly if Mr P lived a long life. In any event, MWM should not 
have encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr P genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think MWM shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr P, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His ex-
employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was 
worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. He was clearly unhappy with 
events at his ex-employer and with the BSPS. 
So, its quite possible that Mr P was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his ex-employer and his negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was MWMs obligation to give Mr P an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. The advice did take into account the benefits available to Mr P through the 
BSPS2. I think MWM should have taken steps to alleviated Mr Ps concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF. But I dont think it did this. The suitability report said that:
As things stand today, the BSPS2 scheme has not yet been established and there is still 
concern that if insufficient funding is put in place to support the scheme, then there is still a 
chance that the original pension scheme will automatically fall into the PPF and therefore, 
the option to transfer your accrued benefits will be lost.
It is unknown at this stage whether members who join the BSPS2 pension scheme will be 
able to obtain transfer values in the future, should it be their desire to research an alternative 
way to receive their pension benefits.
Even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that MWM shouldve 
reassured Mr P that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr P through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to MWM recommending Mr P transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether. I note the suitability letter did say that there was very little difference between the 
BSPS2 benefits and those the PPF would provide. 
I think Mr Ps desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr P was not an 
experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr P  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
MWM recommended that Mr P invest in a fund it said was suitable for his attitude to risk. As 
Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr P, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr P should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr P. But MWM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr P might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr P needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring to a 
personal pension Mr P was, in my view, unlikely to significantly improve these, and he may 
have got less. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify 
the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests for him to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension when he had opted into the BSPS2. I think 
MWM shouldve advised Mr P not to transfer and he would have remained in the BSPS2.
I accept that MWM disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr P and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr P to 
transfer out, and I think Mr P relied on that advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
MWMs advice. I say this because Mr P was an inexperienced investor and this pension 
accounted for the bulk of his provision at the time. So, if MWM had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Ps concerns about the PPF were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if 
MWM had explained Mr P was unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the 
PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his needs in retirement without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I appreciate some time 
has now passed but Mr P now says that this is what he would have done. 
Im aware that in some communications with MWM Mr P appeared motivated to get the 
transfer out completed. But Mr P had received advice from MWM that he should transfer out 
of the DB scheme. So, I think his words have to be considered in that context. It isnt reasonable to assume that hed have behaved the same way if hed been advised to remain 
within the BSPS2. So, I dont think this demonstrates hed have gone against the advice.
In light of the above, I think MWM should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that MWM also pay Mr P £250 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. Mr P has explained that although he has been out of the loop he has 
been very concerned about this situation recently. And I dont doubt that Mr P will have been 
caused some worry in relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award 
the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would most 
likely have remained in the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
MWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
MWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, MWM should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts MWMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum (rather than into a pension) will be treated as 
income for tax purposes. So, in line with DISP App 4, MWM may make a notional deduction 
to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on 
income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free 
cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this. 
MWM must also pay Mr P £250 for the distress the poor advice has caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman