DRN-3800812
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc behaved unreasonably when 
completing its banking checks. 
What happened
Mr S held a personal account with Barclays. In June 2020, he opened a business account 
with the bank and applied for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) shortly after. 
Mr S told us:
He was unhappy with Barclays request to provide identification documents as it had 
threatened to withdraw all his banking facilities if he didnt provide them. So, he had 
concerns about how Barclays was completing its money laundering checks.
He wasnt happy that he was paying an £8 monthly fee for his business bank account 
as hed received a poor service from the bank, and it hadnt responded to the 
complaint hed made in branch. 
He wasnt happy that Barclays had linked all his complaints into one rather than treat 
them separately. 
Barclays didnt calculate the interest on his BBL correctly as it varied from month to 
month and didnt take into account what hed overpaid.  
Barclays told us:
It asked Mr S for identification documents and information about his business as it 
needed to complete its Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. It was satisfied its staff 
had asked for this information in a reasonable way. 
Mr S didnt want to provide these online, so the other option was for him to take the 
documents to a local branch to be certified which it had made him aware of.
Although Mr S was an existing customer, when he opened his business account, it 
still needed to verify his identity to comply with regulatory checks. 
It didnt offer fee free banking. However, Mr S hadnt paid any fees for the first year 
as a business customer due to an introductory period. The £8 monthly fee was for 
the services Mr S received as a business customer after this introductory period had 
ended.   
The interest on the BBL had been calculated correctly and was on a daily rate using 
the outstanding balance. The payments also varied each month due to the number of 
days in that month.
It had offered £50 compensation to Mr S as the documents hed sent in were in the 
process of being recorded when its second information request had been sent.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the £50 
compensation offered by the bank was reasonable. She said that banks had obligations to 
undertake KYC checks regardless of how long a customer held a relationship with them  
and in this case were undertaking a new business customer relationship. She also said that 
complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity that this service could consider  so she 
couldnt comment on the points Mr S had made about Barclays handling of his complaints. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr S feels strongly about whats happened. Hes provided a lot of information 
and testimony in support of his complaint. Ive read and considered everything Mr S has 
provided, however, in this decision Ive not commented on each and every point hes raised.
KYC process and threatening actions 
I recognise Mr S may have found it frustrating that the bank asked for his identification 
documents when hed already provided them in the past. However, under Barclays legal 
and regulatory obligations, the bank is expected to hold accurate information about its 
customers. In this case, I can see that Barclays told Mr S that it was reviewing its customer 
information as part of its checks to ensure the details it held were up to date. I think the 
banks actions were reasonable. 
Mr S told us that he was unhappy that the bank called him to request the outstanding 
information and that hed have preferred this in writing. He was also unhappy with Barclays 
overall process including that it had blocked his account and sent him ambiguous updates. 
But I dont think it did anything wrong in how it requested or provided updates. I say this 
because this is a commercial decision that the bank is entitled to make and its for Barclays 
to decide the best way to meet its regulatory and legal obligations. 
In adjusting to these circumstances, it meant Barclays issued standard letters - such as 
requests for information, reminders for information which may have already been provided 
by Mr S and what may happen as a result of it not being received - and used online systems 
wherever possible. I think this was reasonable. 
Mr S says that he wasnt told his account would be blocked by the bank and was frustrated 
that he was sent ambiguous correspondence chasing a response after hed already returned 
his forms.  However, his account wasnt blocked. And I can see that the bank made Mr S 
aware in its letter of 24 June, that he wouldnt be able to apply for new products until the 
requested information had been returned. Barclays has recognised that there was likely a 
cross over between Mr Ss original forms being logged on its system and it sending a letter 
chasing up those documents. The bank has apologised for this issue and offered £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused Mr S. I think this was reasonable.  
Ive also seen that after Barclays had received the business information from Mr S, it 
identified that his personal information was incomplete and contacted him by phone to 
request this. Ive listened to the calls between Barclays and Mr S when the identification 
documents were requested, and I didnt hear anything that suggested Barclays was 
threatening Mr S. It was only when Mr S refused to provide the documents in any format that 
the call handler explained that without them there was a chance his account could be closed. 
Whilst I recognise the bank didnt contact Mr S in the way he said he wanted going forward 
during that call, hed also said that he was unhappy with what he felt were ambiguous letters. 
And based on the call with Barclays, I think the bank were looking to assist Mr S with 
explaining the quickest way for him to resolve the issue with his KYC information. 
Mr S thinks that it was unreasonable for Barclays to say that it would restrict some services 
until it had received the outstanding KYC information. But I dont agree. Im satisfied that the 
bank was clear about what was required, why this was, and what the consequences could be for non-compliance in line with the banks terms and conditions. Mr S says that he should 
be compensated by Barclays because by providing the documentation he has helped it meet 
its anti-money laundering obligations. 
However, the bank was providing Mr S with the facilities that he requested, and its 
reasonable for Barclays to request the information needed for it to continue providing those 
facilities. I dont think there is any basis on which it would be fair for Barclays to pay Mr S 
any compensation for this. The alternative was for the bank to terminate its relationship with 
Mr S, which at the time he didnt want it to do. Mr S has also said that the bank should pay 
him compensation for the time taken to respond to it in writing. However, Mr S told Barclays 
he only wanted to communicate in writing, so it isnt reasonable for me to award 
compensation for him to respond in the way he requested.
Business account fees
Mr S is also unhappy about the fees and charges applied to his business current account. 
He says these were increased before he started to make the BBL repayments which was 
unreasonable  but I dont agree. Mr S signed up for a business account in June 2020. 
Under the account terms and conditions, he was eligible for a 12-month fee free period, after 
which a monthly fee would be applicable. Its a commercial decision for Barclays to decide 
how much to charge its customers, and its not for this service to say what this should be. 
But as the fees were charged in line with the account terms and conditions, I cant say the 
bank did anything wrong. And if Mr S was unhappy with the fees charged by the bank, he 
was able to take his banking elsewhere, which I can see that he has done. 
BBL interest and direct debits 
Mr S told us that he was unhappy with the interest charged on his BBL which he thought was 
incorrect due to the repayments hed made during the interest-free period. However, I can 
see that Barclays has said that the standard Scheme interest rate of 2.5% was applied to his 
loan and that the interest will vary depending on the outstanding balance  which is reviewed 
on a daily basis  and the number of days in a month. Ive seen a copy of the BBL 
transaction statement, and Im satisfied that the loan administration by the bank was in line 
with the Scheme requirements. 
Complaint handling and compensation 
Mr S told us that he was unhappy with how the bank had dealt with his complaints and that 
they had been grouped together. He was also unhappy that the compensation offered by the 
bank isnt reflective of the time hed spent dealing with the complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but complaint handling isnt an activity that falls within our 
jurisdiction so I cant look at the banks decision to address all Mr Ss complaints together, 
nor that the branch manager didnt respond to his complaint in the time or manner that he 
believed was appropriate.   
This service doesnt make awards based on an hourly rate, nor does it award compensation 
solely for bringing a complaint to this service or providing the information required as part of 
our investigation. To assess the level of any costs, I need to compare what actually 
happened with what would have happened in the absence of the banks failure. For this 
reason, I cant agree with the cost figures that Mr S has provided as I dont think they are 
reasonable in relation to the circumstances of the complaint. So I wont be recommending 
the bank increase its offer of £50 for the inconvenience caused to Mr S. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay £50.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman