DRN-2656213
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way that his mortgage was administered by Pepper (UK) Limited 
trading as Engage Credit.
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage with lender A. In 2015 the mortgage was transferred to lender B 
and Engage Credit administered the mortgage on its behalf. In 2019 Mr C repaid the
mortgage.
Mr C complains:
Engage Credit refused to negotiate a lower redemption figure.
He had to repay around £234,000 when he only borrowed £200,000 and the property is 
worth less than that.
The fees and charges added by Engage Credit were excessive.
The arrears letters from Engage Credit traumatised him.
Engage Credit lost the deeds to his home.
Engage Credit told him that his mortgage was going to be transferred to another lender.
I issued a provisional decision. I said Id look at any more comments and evidence I received 
from Mr C and Engage Credit. But unless that information changed my mind, my final 
decision was likely to be along the following lines and which forms part of this decision:
Both sides had already accepted that we cant look at a complaint about the sale of the 
mortgage, the capitalisation of the arrears by lender A and any fees or charges applied 
before February 2014 as they were out of time.
I couldnt see there was any error in the redemption figure calculated by Engage Credit. 
It reflected that the mortgage was in arrears for some time and the various fees and 
charges that were added to the mortgage. The value of the property would not change 
the amount owed. There was no requirement for Engage Credit to negotiate a reduced 
settlement figure with Mr C.
Looking at the level of arrears, Mr Cs payment history and the amount of additional work 
carried out by lender A and Engage Credit, I considered the arrears fees had been 
applied reasonably in the circumstances of this case. From September 2016, Engage 
Credit agreed a payment arrangement with Mr C. It hadnt applied any fees for as long 
as Mr C kept to that arrangement. Engage Credit has shown that he legal fees reflected 
the amount charged by the solicitors and is in line with what I have seen in other similar 
cases. So I dont consider they were applied unfairly.
Under the terms of the mortgage the lender was entitled to pay the ground rent to Mr Cs 
freeholder to protect its security. Its unlikely the security would be at risk if the 
administration costs werent paid. But if those costs werent paid, it is likely the freeholder 
would have continued with its action and its likely that a court or tribunal will have told Mr 
C he had to pay the administration costs anyway. 
It is open to Mr C to challenge the ground rent and administration costs applied by the 
freeholder through a court or tribunal. If he were successful then it might be reasonable 
for Engage Credit or lender B to refund any fees it paid, any associated interest and/or 
any legal fees over and above what Mr C would have had to pay in any event. I will leave 
it open to Mr C to raise that matter with lender Bs administrator should he get evidence 
from a court or tribunal that the ground rent and/or administration fees should not have 
been paid. He should seek legal advice if is unsure what to do.
Engage Credit was able to obtain Mr Cs deeds from the Land Registry. I cant see he 
has experienced any financial loss as a result of that  and I dont consider Engage 
Credit has treated him unfairly.
After Mr C repaid the mortgage he received a letter telling him that his data would be 
transferred to another administrator  as Engage Credit would no longer be 
administering mortgages for lender B. This was not Engage Credits decision, so I dont 
consider it acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Engage Credit accepted my provisional conclusions. Mr C didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again I see no reason to reach different conclusions than I did in 
my provisional decision as set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman