DRN-4065494
Complaint
Mr S says that Santander UK plc (Santander) unfairly paid direct debits from his account 
when he had insufficient funds thus leading to him being overdrawn on an unarranged basis.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first instance Ive seen that Mr S has argued that he should be awarded £10,000.00 in 
compensation. Its unclear how and why Mr S believes hes sustained losses of £10,000.00. 
In any event, having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr S 
complaint or awarding him any compensation. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Santander paid direct debits that had been authorised by Mr S. And Mr S hasnt really 
explained why he made no attempt to cancel these mandates if he didnt want the payments 
in question to be made. Hes simply argued that such payments werent allowed out of his 
account previously. 
Santander says that the terms and conditions of Mr S account permitted it to treat Mr S 
instruction as a request for an unarranged overdraft. Be that as it may, given these 
payments would be taking Mr S into an unarranged overdraft Im satisfied that it was lending 
to Mr S when authorising these payments. 
That said, Im not persuaded that Santander taking Mr S individual circumstances into 
account would have led to it declining to pay the transactions concerned. To explain, the 
payments Santander allowed from Mr S accounts never took Mr S significantly overdrawn. 
As far as I can see the most Mr S was overdrawn by was around £175. 
I havent seen anything in Mr S statements or in the rest of the information provided that 
would indicate that Mr S financial circumstances were such that he obviously couldnt afford 
to repay what is a relatively low amount, within a reasonable period of time. So, Im not 
persuaded that Santander did act unfairly and unreasonably towards Mr S when it allowed 
him to build up an unarranged overdraft balance by paying direct debits which it isnt in 
dispute that hed authorised.
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that Mr S would more likely than not have paid 
just as much in fees and charges if Santander hadnt agreed the payments that it did. After 
all he would have been charged unpaid transaction fees and his providers may well have 
charged fees for him failing to make his payments. 
Equally, as some of the payments honoured were for direct debits such as insurance 
premiums and utility providers, I think there could have been other serious unintended 
consequences if these payments hadnt been allowed.
So overall while Im not necessarily persuaded that Santander wasnt lending to Mr S when it  
allowed the direct debit payments in question to have been paid from Mr S account, even 
though he authorised them, Im satisfied that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards 
him. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr S complaint or directing Santander to take any 
further action here.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman