DRN-2452305
The complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined the claims she made under her 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on Mrs Cs complaint in December 2020. Heres what I said:
Mrs Cs policy with AXA started in April 2017. The policy was set up on moratorium 
underwriting terms. This meant that treatment for pre-existing medical conditions were 
excluded for at least the first two years from the date of joining. This also meant that Mrs C 
wasnt asked detailed questions about her medical history when the policy was set up.
Mrs C has explained that in the past, shes occasionally experienced fibroadenoma in her 
breasts which develops into a lump. Shed then visit a doctor whod extract the fluid to 
reduce the cyst size back to normal.
Mrs C found a lump in her breast again around December 2016. Based on her previous 
experience, she thought it was again fibroadenoma. She didnt get in touch with a doctor 
until June 2017 when the lump was starting to get uncomfortable. However, Mrs C was sadly 
diagnosed with breast cancer, and she underwent treatment for this through the NHS.
Mrs C made claims to AXA for the NHS cash benefit for radiotherapy between August and 
December 2017 and for neutropenic sepsis in October 2017. AXA declined her claims. It 
said that as Mrs C had found the lump shortly before the policy started, it considered her 
breast cancer to be a pre-existing condition. And it said both neutropenic sepsis and 
radiotherapy were directly related to breast cancer. So, as Mrs C hadnt had a two-year 
trouble-free period from that condition after she bought the policy, her claims werent 
covered.
Mrs C wasnt happy with AXAs decision. She says that fibroadenoma cant be related to 
cancer. Shes highlighted several sources that refer to fibroadenoma being common and 
noncancerous. She says theres no way she couldve known the lump she found was 
anything other than fibroadenoma.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought it was reasonable for AXA to 
decline Mrs Cs claims, and it had acted in line with its policy. He said that as a lump in 
breast is a symptom of breast cancer, this meant it was a pre-existing condition. And as 
Mrs C made claims for this before shed had a two-year trouble-free period, these werent 
covered under the policy.
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The moratorium terms outline that theres no cover for medical problems (the membership 
statement refers to these as pre-existing medical conditions) that Mrs C had in the five years 
before she joined. But these would be covered after shes been a member for two years in a 
row, and shes had a period of two years in a row (since joining) that have been trouble-free 
from that condition.
Trouble-free meant  amongst other things  that Mrs C hadnt had a medical opinion or had 
medical treatment for the condition she needed treatment for.
The policy also includes comprehensive cancer cover. This says itll cover treatment for any 
new cancer that starts after joining  but the section also refers to the exclusion for pre-
existing conditions.
The policy defines a pre-existing condition to be any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication, advice or treatment for in the five years before the 
start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover:
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
Mrs C made claims for NHS cash benefit relating to an emergency admission for 
neutropenic sepsis, and for radiotherapy for breast cancer. Ill consider these separately.
The NHS website says that the first symptom of breast cancer that most women notice is a 
lump. And Mrs C found a lump in her breast less than six months before she bought the 
policy. I fully appreciate that Mrs C thought she had fibroadenoma as shed had it before. But 
that doesnt mean that a lump in her breast wasnt a symptom of breast cancer. 
Considering the policy wording, Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly and reasonably by 
declining her claim for radiotherapy for breast cancer. This is because it was a pre-existing 
condition as defined by the policy terms, as Mrs C had experienced symptoms of the breast 
cancer in the five years before the cover started. Mrs Cs claim also related to treatment 
during the first year of the policy, so she hadnt been trouble-free from the condition for two 
years before she made a claim.
But I dont think AXA acted fairly when it declined the claim for neutropenic sepsis by saying 
this was also a pre-existing condition. AXA said it did this because this was as a result of the 
chemotherapy Mrs C was receiving for her breast cancer. But the definition for a pre-existing 
condition doesnt include conditions resulting from treatment of those conditions, or similar.
I highlighted this to AXA, and it said this claim still isnt covered under the policy. It said this 
was because the policy included a six-week safety net. This meant that if the NHS can give 
Mrs C treatment within six weeks of when treatment should take place, then Mrs C will use 
the NHS. Otherwise, shell go privately.
Mrs C was admitted to hospital due to neutropenic sepsis as an emergency, and she was 
treated under the NHS. The cash benefit on the policy said that it would pay £50 a night if 
you get free in-patient treatment on the NHS: that you could have claimed for as part of your 
policy.But this isnt something Mrs C couldve claimed for as part of her private medical insurance. 
This was because she needed emergency care, so she needed to be treated under the 
NHS. If shed had to wait for the treatment for six weeks, then she couldve claimed for it 
under her policy, and AXA wouldve needed to pay for it. So, I think AXA is correct and 
Mrs C still cant claim NHS benefit for the neutropenic sepsis treatment, even though Ive 
found that this wasnt a pre-existing medical condition.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now passed. 
Mrs C responded to say she didnt accept my decision. In summary, she said Id missed her 
point. She says that its the terminology used in the policy that gives AXA the opportunity to 
decline claims, which could become onerous. She says most illnesses can be defined as 
pre-existing based on the policy wording. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All moratorium policies exclude cover for pre-existing medical conditions  but how thats 
defined is different from insurer to insurer. Mrs C is specifically unhappy that AXAs term for 
pre-existing conditions includes symptoms for a condition even if the condition wasnt 
diagnosed  she didnt know she had cancer. But I dont think theres anything particularly 
unusual about how AXA has defined the term.
Its not within my remit to consider how AXA may interpret other conditions based on the 
policy wording. I can only consider what its done here.
So, I did consider if AXA applied the term fairly and reasonably in Mrs Cs complaint. For the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I thought it did when it declined her claim for 
radiotherapy for breast cancer. 
But I didnt think AXA could decline the claim for neutropenic sepsis based on it being a pre-
existing condition and how thats defined in the policy. However, for the other reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision, I still didnt think this was covered under the policy.
Overall, what Mrs C has said doesnt change my findings. So, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I did in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman