DRN-4439519
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC says she owes money to it.
What happened
Mrs D says she was the victim of fraud, and a debt was taken out in her name. She says 
Barclays wrote off the debt but is now asking her to repay it. Mrs D would like Barclays to 
stop its action which its taking via a collection company.
Barclays says it wrote off a credit card debt of about £1,600 which it accepts was taken out 
in Mrs Ds name fraudulently. It says Mrs D had a current account which had an overdrawn 
balance of over £3,900 which it closed in 2015. Barclays says Mrs D agreed a repayment 
plan via a third-party debt charity which continued until 2021. It says it is owed money and 
entitled to ask Mrs D to repay it.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the fraud matter was not linked to Mrs Ds debt and Barclays was entitled to ask her 
to repay it.
Mrs D doesnt accept that view and says Barclays fraud team told her she didnt owe it 
anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs D will be disappointed by my decision, but I hope this decision can explain 
what has taken place.
I have looked carefully at the records Barclays has given us and the letter Mrs D provided 
about her debt arrangement with the debt charity. That letter dated May 2019 from the debt 
charity clearly shows Mrs D had entered into an arrangement with Barclays and other 
lenders. The letter refers to a Barclays overdraft debt with an original balance of just under 
£4,000 with about £1,600 repaid. Barclays statements for Mrs Ds account show an overdraft 
balance of just under £4,000 in 2015 when the account was closed. So, Im satisfied that Mrs 
D had an account with Barclays that was overdrawn and that she entered into a repayment 
plan with a debt charity.
It follows that I am satisfied, having looked at Barclays records, some of that debt remains 
and that Barclays is entitled to ask Mrs D to repay the balance which is now well under 
£1,000. I also think Barclays is entitled to ask a third-party debt collection business to collect 
the debt.
I appreciate Mrs D was the victim of fraud and that a credit card debt was taken out in her 
name. There is no doubt that credit card debt was refunded by Barclays, and I think it likely 
that if Mrs D asked Barclays fraud team about that debt, she would have been told she didnt 
owe it money. But Im also satisfied the fraud and the current account debt are completely 
separate debts and issues.
I have made clear that Im satisfied Mrs Ds current account closed with a balance owing to 
Barclays in 2015. The fraud was not connected to that account but was a credit card debt. I 
appreciate Mrs D may have been confused by the two debts, but Im satisfied Barclays 
hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and has provided an explanation to her.
Overall, for the reasons I have made clear, Im satisfied Mrs D still owes a balance to 
Barclays for her overdraft balance. I hope she will contact either Barclays or the debt 
collection business to arrange a repayment plan which had previously been set up with the 
debt charity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman