DRN-2473846
The complaint
Mr F complains that sun loungers he bought using his credit card with Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc (BOI) were not as described and he wants a refund. 
What happened
Mr F ordered sun loungers from an online retailer on 20 May 2019. Mr F explains that his 
grandson assisted him to make the purchase because he doesnt have email and isnt very 
good with the technology. Mr F explained that he has neck problems and so it was essential 
that the sun loungers laid flat. Mr F says that it wasnt clear from the pictures whether the 
loungers laid flat, so he telephoned the company and was assured that they lay flat.
Mr F used his credit card to buy the sun loungers and they were delivered to his address. 
Upon delivery Mr F said that he saw that the loungers were slightly curved and knew they 
would not be suitable, so he refused delivery and the lounders were returned to the retailer. 
The retailer ignored email correspondence from Mr Fs grandson and did not provide a 
refund. Mr F approached BOI to assist as the loungers had been bought using credit.
BOI looked at Mr Fs complaint and said that because he refused delivery there were no 
chargeback rights. It said that as there was no proof that the sun loungers were not as 
described it could not agree there had been a misrepresentation and so it refused his 
complaint under s75 of the Consumer Credit Act. So, Mr F brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint and thought that it should be upheld. They 
thought that because Mr F had specifically asked whether the loungers lay flat and they did 
not then there had been a misrepresentation and BOI should refund him. BOI didnt agree 
and said that there was no evidence that Mr F had been told the loungers would lay flat and 
that it was doubtful that he could have inspected them before they were returned at the point 
of delivery. Additionally, BOI said that because the loungers were ordered by Mr Fs 
grandson and it was his name on the delivery note and in the correspondence with the 
retailer that the debtor/creditor link was broken and so BOI had no liability under section 75.
The investigator issued a further view and set out that they didnt think the debtor/creditor 
link was broken because Mr F was the intended recipient of the loungers and was being 
assisted by his grandson. The view also set out that Mr F would have been entitled to return 
the goods for a full refund without any reason under the terms of business of the merchant. 
BOI didnt agree and said in summary that, the debtor creditor link was broken, Mr F did not 
follow the returns process and there was no evidence that the loungers were for his benefit. 
BOI asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr F made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. 
One of those circumstances is that there must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. So, if I was satisfied that Mr Fs agreement was misrepresented by the supplier 
and if I was persuaded Mr F would not have proceeded with the agreement if hed known the 
true facts then Id think it fair and reasonable that BOI refund him. But for BOI to have that 
liability it needs to have a relevant relationship with the beneficiary of the goods (Mr F) and 
here BOI argues that it hasnt, as they say there was a fourth party involved (Mr Fs 
grandson) and that party broke the relationship.
Ive looked at the role played by Mr Fs grandson in this transaction. I can see that his name 
is on the receipt as he provided his email address and ordered the loungers over the internet 
as his grandfather wasnt familiar with the technology. The loungers were paid for using Mr 
Fs credit card and delivered to his address. In his handwritten letter to BOI in August 2019 
Mr F explains that his grandson appears on the documents but confirms that the loungers 
were for his benefit and he has a health condition which meant he required them to lay flat.
Mr F has said that the loungers were for his benefit and his credit card was used to purchase 
them, they were delivered to his address and his grandson assisted with the transaction 
because Mr F does not have the technical ability to order things on the internet. Mr Fs 
position has been consistent, and I have no reason to doubt what he says. His account is 
persuasive that the sun loungers were for his benefit and there is no evidence that they were 
ordered for the benefit of his grandson. I dont think that the assistance of Mr Fs grandson to 
order the loungers or that his name appears on the invoice or the subsequent email 
correspondence is enough to break the relationship. The purchase was made with Mr Fs full 
knowledge and authority with the intention that he would use the loungers which is why they 
needed to lay flat to accommodate his health condition.
Mr F explains that the picture didnt make it clear that the loungers would lay flat and so the 
supplier was contacted over the telephone. Again, BOI say there is no evidence of this. Mr 
Fs account is that a telephone call was made, and this was repeated in the initial emails to 
the supplier. I have no reason to doubt Mr Fs account that this was an important detail that 
he clarified over the telephone before placing the order.
When the loungers arrived Mr, F says that he knew that they were not suitable. There is no 
information about how they were packaged but for Mr F to know that they would not lay flat 
and explain that this was the reason for return he must have been able to see them. I have 
no reason to doubt that Mr F could see that they would not lay flat at the point of delivery. 
His account has been consistent and there is no evidence that the loungers do lay flat as Mr 
F was assured they would over the telephone.
Further, Mr F should have been able to return the goods for a full refund without any reason although he was very clear that he was returning them because they were not as they had 
been described to him. He had been unable to see them before purchase and was keen to 
make sure they were suitable.
The supplier was aware that the delivery had been refused and stated in an email, if you 
would like to cancel please let us know. There was no suggestion in that email that Mr F 
would need to take delivery and then return the items via a returns process or that the order 
was not eligible to be returned or cancelled.
I think that there was a misrepresentation about the loungers and a breach of contract by not 
refunding Mr F for a cancelled order.
In these circumstances I dont think that BOI have fairly dealt with Mr Fs complaint and it 
should put matters right for him.
Putting things right
BOI should refund Mr F the amount he paid for the loungers by crediting the amount paid to 
his account from the date that the transaction was applied. It should remove any interest or 
associated charges that were added. If Mr F would have been in credit, then BOI should pay 
8% simple interest on this credit balance until Mr F gets its back.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should put things 
right by doing what Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman