DRN-2870870
The complaint
Mr M complains that RAC Insurance Limited declined a claim he made on his breakdown 
cover.
What happened
Mr M had a breakdown cover policy with RAC that was automatically renewed on 21 
February 2020. The policy provided cover for lost keys.
In September 2020, Mr M made a claim on the policy because he lost his keys. RAC 
declined the claim. It said that Mr Ms car wasnt insured at the time of the claim, and this 
was a requirement of the policy. It also said that Mr M couldnt provide proof that he owned 
the keys. 
Mr M was unhappy with this. He says that he didnt have his car insured at the time because 
he didnt need to use it as a result of the pandemic. And he said that the car was owned by a 
family member, but he had permission to use it. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He didnt think that RAC had done anything 
wrong when it declined the claim. He referred back to the terms and conditions of the policy 
and thought RAC had acted in line with these. And so, he didnt ask RAC to do anything 
more for Mr M.
In response to our investigator, Mr M asked that RAC refund some of the premium he paid 
for the cover. RAC offered Mr M a pro rata refund of the premium he paid as a gesture of 
goodwill. But Mr M didnt accept this, he said that hed paid an arrangement and 
administration fee, so he wanted a refund of this too. Mr M said that he would accept £115 to 
settle the complaint. 
Because neither party could agree on how to resolve things, the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. These say:
Section H (Key Replace) only applies to persons named on your schedule, even where the 
policy is vehicle based. 
 If during the policy period your own car keys are lost..Please note: We will ask you to 
produce evidence that you own the keys, for example a copy of your V5C certificate.
Under the general conditions section of the policy, it states:
This policy does not coveryour vehicle if it is not legally taxed, insured and holding a valid 
MOT which is required by law or is not being used in line with the manufacturers guidelines; 
Generally speaking, this service would normally take the approach that an insurer had fairly 
declined a claim where it has done so in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. As 
long as the consumer hadnt been treated unfairly.
Mr M has said that his car wasnt insured at the time because he wasnt using it during the 
pandemic. RAC said that given the circumstances, it would still consider the claim. I think 
this is a fair approach for RAC to take.
But Mr M isnt the owner of the car or the keys. Because of this, he couldnt provide RAC 
with proof of ownership which was a requirement for the policy to pay out. I dont think it was 
unreasonable of RAC to decline the claim on this basis. And so, Im satisfied that RAC has 
treated Mr M fairly.
RAC has offered Mr M a pro-rata refund of the policy, this is as a goodwill gesture. Mr M now 
doesnt think it was fair of RAC to charge him an arrangement fee and an admin fee when it 
initially set up the policy. Im not going to comment on that in this decision, Mr M has only 
recently raised this as an issue, and RAC hasnt had the opportunity to look into this for him 
first. So I dont think it would be fair of me to make a finding on this point.
Given that I havent found that RAC has done anything wrong when it declined Mr Ms claim, 
Im not going to ask it to do anything more for Mr M. RAC has offered Mr M a refund of the 
pro-rata premiums, its up to Mr M if he wishes to accept this or not.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman