DRN-3305476
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited turned down his private medical insurance 
claim.
Mr S is represented in this complaint by Mrs K.
What happened
Mr S saw a specialist, who recommended that he have an ISAC allergy test. The test took 
place in September 2020. 
AXA refused to pay for the ISAC test, as it thought this was unproven treatment. AXA said if 
it had known about the test, it wouldve told Mrs K that it wasnt covered. Unhappy with this, 
Mrs K brought a complaint to this service on Mr Ss behalf. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for AXA to say the ISAC test was unproven treatment.
Mrs K didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says that AXA covers drugs, treatment and surgery that is conventional 
treatment. 
Treatment is defined in the policy as:
surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, relieve 
or cure a disease, illness or injury.
The policy explains whats meant by conventional treatment. It says:
We define conventional treatment as treatment that:
is established as best medical practice and is practised widely within the UK; and
is clinically appropriate in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration and 
the facility or location where the treatment is provided; and has either
obeen shown to be safe and effective for the treatment of your medical 
condition through substantive peer reviewed clinical evidence in published 
authoritative medical journals; or
obeen approved by NICE (The National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence) as a treatment which may be used in routine practice.
Mrs K hasnt provided any evidence from Mr Ss specialist about why the ISAC test was 
needed, nor have I seen any evidence from the specialist to support that the ISAC test would 
be considered conventional treatment. NICE sets out recommendations for health and care 
in England, and they say theres insufficient evidence to recommend the routine adoption of 
this test to help diagnose allergy. 
Based on this, Im satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that the ISAC test wasnt 
conventional treatment, and turn down the claim for this test. 
I note the policy also says:
We know our members may want to have access to developing treatments as they become 
available. So, we will consider covering the following treatment when it is carried out by a 
Health For You specialist:
Surgery not listed and identified in the schedule of procedures and fees; and other 
treatments and diagnostic tests which are not conventional treatments.
The policy goes on to say that unproven treatment must be authorised by AXA, and would 
need to be a suitable equivalent to conventional treatment. Though if there is no suitable 
equivalent conventional treatment, then there wont be any cover for unproven treatment.
We asked Mrs K to establish from Mr Ss specialist whether there was equivalent 
conventional treatment, however she refused to do so. I therefore havent considered this 
point further. However, if Mrs K does find out this information, she should forward it to AXA 
so it can consider whether any payment would be due.
Ive also thought about whether AXA led Mrs K to believe that the ISAC test would be 
covered. 
 
On 6 July 2020, Mrs K called AXA to obtain authorisation for Mr S to see a specialist. AXA 
authorised a consultation, diagnostic tests and a follow-up consultation with a particular 
specialist in a particular hospital. AXA advised Mrs K that if Mr S saw a different consultant 
or used a different hospital to contact AXA first. AXA also advised Mrs K that if the specialist 
then recommended any further treatment, to call AXA and let them know so AXA could 
confirm if it was covered.
Mr S then saw a different specialist (who was not a Health for You Specialist) at a different 
hospital for the initial consultation on 31 July 2020. A diagnostic test (skin prick test) took 
place on this day. Then on 7 August 2020, further tests were done (patch testing and 
another skin prick test). Mr S had the follow-up consultation with the specialist on 9 August 
2020.
The specialist then arranged for Mr S to have the ISAC test on 12 September 2020. 
Although the specialist wasnt a Health for You Specialist, I see that AXA decided to cover 
the full costs anyway, given the situation with the pandemic. 
As the ISAC test was arranged after the treatment which had been authorised by AXA had 
ended, I think Mrs K ought to have contacted AXA to check whether this was covered. If 
shed done so, AXA couldve advised that it wasnt conventional treatment and wouldnt have 
been covered.
I therefore dont find that AXA led Mrs K to believe the ISAC test would be covered. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman