DRN-3316073
The complaint
Mr B complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd gave him unsuitable investment advice. His 
complaint is brought on his behalf by a solicitor.
What happened
Mr B sought investment advice from Zurich in 1996. He was young, living with his parents, 
and he wanted to start some form of regular savings, potentially for a house purchase in the 
future.
Zurich recommended he invest £50 each month in a Maximum Investment Plan (MIP), a 
10-year endowment assurance policy. The investment consisted of investment in a managed 
fund and a life policy.
Mr B stopped making the monthly payments towards the end of 2002, and in May 2003 he 
surrendered the policy, receiving around £3,000.
Mr Bs representative complained that Mr B did not have an emergency savings fund, that 
the MIP was too risky for him, and that he didnt have any requirement for life cover.
Zurich was satisfied that the MIP was suitable for Mr Bs circumstances at the time, and that 
he was fully aware of the nature of the MIP, including the risks involved.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the MIP 
was suitable for Mr B, given the illustration said that the growth would be equivalent to 4.2%. 
He thought Mr B would have preferred to put his money in a savings account, which would 
have paid a higher rate of interest without the need to take any risk.
Zurich didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I also thought the complaint should be upheld, but for a different reason. I said:
Mr B was young and didnt have any investment experience. His priority was to 
provide a cash sum in the future for a possible house deposit by starting to save 
regularly. He had around £200 available income each month and decided he wanted 
to save £50. Its not clear what discussion took place around his attitude to risk, but 
the box on the fact find was ticked in the middle which Zurich says meant he had a 
balanced attitude to risk.
I can see that the advisor discussed protecting Mr Bs earnings against sickness or 
an accident. But I cant see that having a sum set aside to cover emergencies  such 
as being unable to work  was discussed. I think it would have been important for Mr 
B to have some readily realisable savings before he committed to a longer-term 
investment. Whilst the MIP could have been surrendered at any time, the illustration 
shows how a surrender before year 10 was likely to mean Mr B would get back less 
than he invested. I think it would have been important for him to have some money 
set aside in a savings account which he could access without notice and without 
penalty. I cant see that this was discussed or recommended.
I also think, as a first time investor who didnt even have a bank deposit account, it 
was likely to have been more difficult for him to understand the concept of investment 
risk, and whether he was prepared to put his capital at risk. The underlying fund in 
the MIP was a managed fund. I can see from the illustration that around 82% was 
invested in UK and overseas equities and property, and around 18% was invested in 
fixed interest and cash. I dont think this was suitable for Mr B. I dont think he would 
have gone ahead with the investment if hed realised how much of his money was 
exposed to equity risk. I say this in particular because of his lack of experience and 
understanding about these types of investment.
Overall, and on balance, I think Mr B should have been advised to build up an 
emergency savings fund in a bank deposit account before he committed any money 
to longer term investment.
And I explained what I thought Zurich needed to do to put things right. I said Zurich should 
pay compensation, using an average rate from fixed rate bonds as a benchmark.
Zurich didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
The recommendation to invest in the MIP was recommended alongside a £50 per month 
saving into a deposit account.
But the MIP may not have been suitable because Mr B may not have intended to keep 
the plan for the full 10 years. Theres no evidence that the advisor warned Mr B of the 
potential consequences if he took the funds early.
Using fixed rate bonds as a benchmark for redress does not reflect a rate that would 
have been available to Mr B because he didnt have a lump sum to invest. Had Mr B set 
up a regular savings account, he would have achieved something around the Bank of 
England base rate. So its more appropriate to use the Bank of England base rate plus 
1% to calculate the redress. 
Tax should be deducted from the redress to accurately reflect what Mr B would have 
achieved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich now agrees that the MIP may not have been appropriate for Mr B. As it agrees the 
plan was mis-sold, it just leaves me to decide what Zurich needs to do to put things right.
I accept what Zurich says about fixed rate bonds generally accepting lump sums, rather than 
regular contributions. But the purpose of using the fixed rate bond index is to provide a 
reasonable indication of what sort of return a consumer might have achieved when they 
werent looking to take any risk with their money. So I think its a close enough fit to Mr Bs 
aims and objectives for it to provide fair compensation.
Zurich also suggests it should deduct income tax from the compensation award. I agree that 
tax may apply on the interest award and that Zurich may choose to deduct that tax. But I dont agree that tax should be applied to the investment growth element of the award. Here, 
the average return from fixed rate bonds is a benchmark being used as a proxy for what 
I think Mr B would have achieved as an investment return, bearing in mind his attitude to 
risk. This service does not order taxes to be applied to a benchmark investment return.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr B fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr B paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted to achieve a reasonable return. He was assessed as having a 
balanced attitude to investment risk. But, had the need for a readily accessible 
savings account been discussed, I think its more likely than not that he would have 
used the £50 a month investment for a savings account, without risking any of his 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr B would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Maximum 
Investment 
PlanNo longer in 
forceAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlementHM Revenue & Customs requires Zurich Assurance Ltd to take off tax from the interest part 
of this award. Zurich Assurance Ltd must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman