DRN-2390235
The complaint
Mr B complains that Cofunds Limited (Cofunds) failed to deduct and pay fees to his IFA.
What happened
Mr B is represented by his financial adviser. It said a letter of authority was sent to Cofunds 
in February 2017 giving Cofunds authority to pay ongoing fees to it. The letter was 
acknowledged by Cofunds. In December 2019 the adviser noticed that Cofunds had not paid 
any fees. It complained direct to Cofunds and later made a complaint on behalf of Mr B. it 
said Cofunds had failed to act on Mr Bs instructions in a timely manner, failed to comply with 
regulator guidance for complaint handling, didnt adhere to treating a customer fairly and 
about a potential data breach by a complaint handler. Mr Bs adviser said it first contacted 
Cofunds in January 2020, Cofunds replied in March and following much chasing issued its 
final response letter in July 2020. 
Cofunds accepted the mistake, apologised and offered to correct the position so that fees 
would be deducted and paid going forward. It wanted authority to sell down Mr Bs 
investments to pay the arrears of fees of around £340. It said it couldnt pay the past fees on 
behalf of Mr B because those were fees he would always have had to pay. It said that if Mr B 
gave authority to deduct payment it would deduct the arrears and pay the adviser. It would 
also do a price comparison to make sure Mr B wasnt worse off due to paying the adviser 
fees now rather than when they shouldve been deducted. It apologised for deleting an email 
from the adviser but said that was an error and not a data breach.
The investigator thought Cofunds proposal was fair and didnt think she could ask Cofunds 
to do anymore. It had accepted it made an error and offered to put Mr B back in the position 
he wouldve been in but for that error, Mr B would always have had to pay the fees so there 
was no reason for them to be paid on his behalf. 
Mr Bs adviser said through no fault of Mr B the fees were not paid. This decision let Cofunds 
off the hook for their incompetence as they failed to provide the service they should have. 
Surely their grudging apology and long time period in sorting this was not in accordance with 
the regulator rules. It felt Cofunds should be punished for non-compliance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cofunds accepts it made a mistake as it didnt follow the instructions to make ongoing fee 
payments to the new adviser. I need to consider whether to make an award for that mistake 
if there is financial loss and any distress and inconvenience. The law says that an award for 
loss should put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in but for the mistake so that he 
doesnt suffer a loss. The purpose of an award for distress and inconvenience is to reflect 
the impact of the mistake on Mr B. It isnt the purpose of either award to punish Cofunds.
In terms of loss, the consequence of the failure meant that fees were not deducted from Mr 
Bs fund. I cannot be certain whether Mr B has suffered a loss as a result of the delayed 
deduction of fees and he may have benefited as more of his money remained invested. 
However Cofunds has said that they will do a check to make sure Mr B isnt worse off by 
virtue of deducting the fees now rather than when they shouldve been deducted. This would 
ensure Mr B wasnt worse off and doesnt suffer any loss. So I think this is fair and 
reasonable.
Mr B would always have had to pay the fees he contracted to pay his financial adviser. 
Subject to the check Cofunds says it will make to ensure he isnt worse off due to paying 
now, he isnt suffering a loss in paying them now rather than when they were due. So I 
cannot direct Cofunds to pay them on behalf of Mr B. 
While Mr Bs adviser may have lost out in not receiving fees when it shouldve, it is Mr B not 
the adviser that is making the complaint and I can only consider Mr Bs position in 
considering any loss.
Cofunds said it wanted authority to disinvest and pay because of the amount involved and 
because the fees were agreed between the client and the adviser. I think that is a 
reasonable request.
I have considered whether to make an award for distress and inconvenience due to the 
mistake. Cofunds didnt propose any such payment but I have still considered whether one is 
appropriate. As Mr B wasnt aware of the mistake, I dont think he suffered any distress at 
the time. I can only consider the impact on Mr B. He hasnt suggested he has suffered any 
distress and inconvenience. It seems it is the adviser and not Mr B who has suffered due to 
non-payment, any slow replies from Cofunds or by deleting an email. So for the reasons 
given I am not making an award for distress and inconvenience.
I think Cofunds has made a fair and reasonable proposals to resolve the mistake. It 
corrected the position in early 2020 for the future and offered to conduct back dated 
valuations to work out any missed payment between February 2017 and early 2020 and to 
make sure Mr B wasnt worse off due to the delayed payment. 
My final decision
I think Cofunds Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to remedy its mistake.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman