DRN-1709864
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC staff refused to serve him when he attended a 
branch.
What happened
Mr W says he attended a Lloyds branch in November 2019 to close his account. He says 
Lloyds staff refused to serve him or discuss his account with him. Mr W says the staff were 
rude, and he was taken into a room before being asked to leave. He says he would like 
compensation and an apology for what took place and says the incident caused him 
distress.
Lloyds says a decision had been made previously to close Mr W's accounts and that when 
he attended the branch in November 2019 he wanted to discuss that decision again. It says 
it spoke to Mr W but asked him to leave when it made clear it couldn't discuss the account 
closure decision and when he raised his voice.
Mr W had brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
didn't think it possible to say what had taken place in branch and so couldn't hold Lloyds 
responsible for what took place. She also thought it clear the relationship had broken down 
between the parties.
Mr W doesn't accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I appreciate that there is a background to this complaint which both sides are familiar with 
and which led to the decision by Lloyds to close Mr W's accounts. That is not something I 
am dealing with in this complaint.
Both sides have given a different version of events about what took place in branch in 
November 2019. In those circumstances I can't be certain what took place, and so I can't 
fairly hold Lloyds responsible for what took place. I agree with the investigator that it is clear 
the relationship between the parties has broken down.
I think it is likely Mr W's accounts have now ben closed and also think it likely the accounts 
were closed shortly after he attended the Lloyds branch in November 2019. So I don't think 
there is likely to have been a significant impact on Mr W if Lloyds did refuse to serve him and 
close the accounts earlier than was anticipated.
Overall I can't be sure what took place but in any event I don't think there was real impact on Mr W by what took place for the reasons I have explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman