DRN-2525844
The complaint 
Mrs S has complained about monthly fees that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) charged her 
for a packaged bank account called a Current Account Plus and for a package of potential 
benefits, called a Tech Pack, which it added to a fee-free account. 
Mrs S thinks that Barclays mis-sold both the Current Account Plus and the Tech Pack to her 
and that it should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest. 
What happened 
Barclays has checked its records for Mrs S and has told us that it sold her the Current 
Account Plus during December 2008 and then switched her to a fee-free account in May 
2016. Its records show that it sold her the Tech Pack at the same time as it switched her 
account. I think that Barclays records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken them 
to be correct. 
When Mrs S complained directly to Barclays, it agreed that it had mis-sold her the Current 
Account Plus and paid her some compensation, but it thought it had treated her fairly when it 
sold her the Tech Pack. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Ss complaint. The adjudicator thought 
that the compensation Barclays had paid to Mrs S for mis-selling her the Current Account 
Plus was fair and that it hadnt mis-sold her the Tech Pack. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs Ss complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mrs S and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Firstly, as Barclays has already agreed it mis-sold the Current Account Plus to Mrs S, for 
that account I have only looked at the compensation it paid to see if was fair, I havent 
considered anything about the sale itself.
When we uphold a complaint that a business mis-sold a packaged bank account, we 
normally tell the business to refund the monthly fees and to add simple interest at the rate of 
8% per year from the time the consumer paid the fee until the time of the refund. I have seen 
a summary of how Barclays worked out the compensation it paid to Mrs S. It seems to have 
followed our approach and I understand that it has already paid this compensation.
Mrs S has said that she thinks Barclays should refund her a further amount for mis-selling 
her the Current Account Plus to compensate her for any fees that could be imposed 
(unarranged overdraft and returned direct debit) as an effect of the monthly account fee 
being debited. However, I havent seen anything to show me that Barclays charged Mrs S 
any such fees directly as a result of the Current Plus Account. So, I think the compensation 
Barclays paid to Mrs S for mis-selling her the Current Account Plus was fair. 
Turning now to the way Barclays sold the Tech Pack to Mrs S.
Around 2015 to 2016, for commercial reasons, Barclays decided to withdraw the Current 
Account Plus from its customers. Along with other banks, Barclays is allowed to make 
changes like this, but has to treat its customers fairly by giving them notice, telling them what 
is happening and giving them reasonable choices. Barclays has said it did this for Mrs S. To 
support its case, it has sent us copies of two letters it wrote to her. 
 .
Barclays sent the first letter to Mrs S during March 2016. The letter told Mrs S that Barclays 
intended to switch her to a Barclays Bank Account with added Tech Pack. It told her how 
much the pack would cost and described in outline the features it would provide. It explained 
how these features compared to the potential benefits of the Current Account Plus and 
pointed out that there would be a price increase. It also told Mrs S that she could opt out of 
the Tech Pack and that if she did so her account would become a Barclays Bank 
Account.with no monthly account fee.... It described how she could opt out either by 
visiting one of Barclays branches or by calling a particular phone number.
Barclays sent the second letter to Mrs S during May 2016. This letter told Mrs S that 
Barclays had changed her account and that it would start to charge her for the Tech Pack. It 
also told her that she could remove the pack from her account at any time.
Both letters seem to have been correctly addressed and I think that in sending them 
Barclays met its obligations to Mrs S. 
Mrs S has said that if Barclays had never sold her the Current Account Plus, she may well 
have had had a fee-free account throughout, so despite the two letters she still thinks 
Barclays treated her unfairly when it added the Tech Pack to her account. I understand the 
point she is making. However, Barclays has already accepted its mistakes with the Current 
Account Plus and has compensated Mrs S fairly. And taken together, its letters gave Mrs S a 
clear choice to switch to a fee-free account and explained how she could do so. Irrespective 
of Barclays earlier mistakes, I think this was fair. 
Mrs S has told us that English is not her first language, and that Barclays did not provide a 
translation for her and so treated her unfairly as she didnt understand everything it said. Im 
not sure of the exact level of Mrs Ss English, but by the time Barclays wrote to her about the 
Tech Pack, she had been one of its customers for around eight years and Im not aware that 
she had asked for a translation of any correspondence. I dont think Barclays had a sufficient 
reason to think that Mrs S wouldnt be able to understand its letters. 
So, in summary, I think that Barclays has already compensated Mrs S fairly for mis-selling 
her the Current Account Plus and also behaved reasonably when it switched her to a fee-
free account with a chargeable Tech Pack. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK Plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman