DRN-4019573
The complaint
G has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have turned down its claim under a 
Motor Trade insurance policy. Mr B, who is a director of G, has brought the complaint on 
behalf of G.
What happened
A person posing as a customer stole a car belonging to G from the forecourt of their
premises. G submitted a claim under its policy. UKI rejected the claim on the basis that the
car was stolen during an unaccompanied demonstration and the policy doesnt cover theft of
motor vehicles arising from an unaccompanied demonstration.
G complained to UKI with the help of its broker about this and the delay in UKI reviewing
their decision on the claim. UKI issued a final response letter in which they said they were
satisfied the decision to turn down the claim was correct. However, they accepted theyd
taken too long to get back to Gs broker after they agreed to review the claim. They
apologised for this.
G wasnt happy with UKIs response and asked us to consider its complaint about the claim
being turned down.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She issued her view on it, in which she
said she thought UKI was wrong to turn down the claim. She reached this conclusion after
viewing CCTV evidence provided by G. She recommended UKI settled the claim in
accordance with the remaining policy terms and pay interest on the amount due to G.
UKI didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Having reviewed the complaint and viewed the CCTV evidence provided, I asked G to
provide the CCTV coverage from the point the thief entered its property. G provided this.
I was surprised to find out that UKI had never actually spoken to anyone at G about what
happened when the car was stolen. So, having reviewed all the evidence provided by UKI
and G, including the new CCTV evidence, I felt it was important to speak with Mr B. So, I 
spoke to him and two of the people who appear in the CCTV.
Having done so, I issued a provisional decision on 25 January 2023 in which I provisionally
decided Gs complaint should not be upheld. This was on the basis that it was claiming
under the Material Damage section of the policy. And this excluded theft of a vehicle which
resulted from an unaccompanied demonstration. I concluded that, although this term wasnt
defined in the policy, it should be taken to mean an unaccompanied viewing or test drive.
And I went on to explain that I thought Gs vehicle had been stolen during an
unaccompanied viewing.
I gave both parties until 8 February 2023 to provide further evidence or comments.
G provided a report it had obtained from a loss adjuster, Ill refer to as Mr W, as further
evidence.
In this Mr W pointed out that the term unaccompanied demonstration also appears on
page 95 of Gs policy in the Road Risks section, in an exclusion under the definition of
Insured Vehicle as follows:
An insured vehicle does not include a vehicle:
privately owned by any Employee or relative of the Insured or hired to them under a
hire purchase agreement, except where the vehicle is in the custody or control of the
Insured for sale, repair, testing, servicing, maintenance, cleaning or inspection; or
Whilst out on loan, hire or unaccompanied demonstration (unless otherwise stated)
He also pointed out that on UKIs website there is an optional cover for Unaccompanied
Demonstrations. And he provided references and links to other motor trade products or
websites for companies offering this cover, which show that you can buy an extension in
cover for unaccompanied demonstrations. And that this clearly refers to extending the policy
to cover unattended test drives. In view of all this, Mr W said he considered the term 
unaccompanied demonstration should be taken to mean an unaccompanied test drive and 
that I was wrong to suggest it should be taken to mean an unaccompanied viewing or test 
drive.
To further support his view, Mr W provided the dictionary definition of demonstration and
pointed out it is the act of showing someone how to do something or how something works.
And that a synonym search for demonstration did not bring up the word viewing. And a
synonym search for the word viewing did not bring up demonstration.
Mr W also referred to the legal principle of contra proferentem. He thought this meant that
 not withstanding there may be a difference of opinion on the meaning of unaccompanied
demonstration - it is clear there is doubt about the meaning. And this means it should be
construed against UKI, as they drafted the contract it is in.
Finally, Mr W pointed out that the time between the thief sitting in the car and driving off
was 34 seconds. And he doesnt think this period of time would constitute him being
unaccompanied. And he said if unaccompanied is to be seen as the same as
unattended, as suggested by our investigator, then the definition of unattended in the policy
should be considered. And it is defined as Any Motor Vehicle left without the insured
keeping the said vehicle under observation. He argued that Gs vehicle was clearly under
observation when it was stolen.
Mr W also explained that he thought the term UKI have relied on to reject Gs claim is
unusual. And he went on to say it is clear it was not specifically highlighted by UKI, despite
it being on page 20 of a 107 page policy document. He referred to UKIs Motor Trade One
Product Summary and pointed out that, although it highlights the fact the there is an
extension for Fraud, Trick, False pretence up to £25,000, along with a number of other
terms, the term UKI have relied on to reject Gs claim is not highlighted.
As well as inviting UKI to provide further comments and evidence in response to my
first provisional decision, our investigator also sent them a copy of Mr Ws report and invited 
their comments on this.
They said the term theyve relied on is not unusual and is standard in all their policies of
this type. And they didnt think they should be required to comment on policies provided by
their competitors. They pointed out that like all the exclusions it is noted in the policy
wording and G has renewed the policy several times; so had numerous opportunities to
review the policy wording and query it. They also think it was for Gs broker to highlight any
or all of the important policy conditions.They said they thought Mr Ws reference to the fact the term unaccompanied demonstration 
in both an insurance context and in plain English does not include viewing, but commonly 
means test drive, is completely inaccurate. So far as they were concerned the act of showing 
someone how to do something or how something works requires the subject to view the 
demonstration or object in question. And in the case of the theft of Gs vehicle there was a
viewing/demonstration of the interior of the vehicle, which includes the infotainment system,
dashboard, and vehicle controls. 
UKI went on to say if a demonstration is unaccompanied there is more potential for theft. 
And in this case the thief was given the keys and allowed to sit in the vehicle on his own for 
the demonstration of its interior. They believe if the salesman had accompanied the thief the 
theft could have been discouraged or prevented.
UKI also said the term unaccompanied demonstration only appears twice in Gs policy. And
the second time is  as Mr W has pointed out  in the Road Risks section. And neither of the
policy sections in which it appears in any way state that an unaccompanied demonstration
solely refers to a test drive. And the Road Risks section does not apply in respect of Gs
claim.
UKI also said they did not believe there is ambiguity around whether the thief was 
unaccompanied. Their view is the salesperson was not in the vehicle, so the thief was 
unaccompanied. In summary, UKI maintained Gs vehicle was stolen during an 
unaccompanied demonstration.
I issued a second provisional decision on 16 February 2023 in which I set out what Id 
provisionally decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive now provisionally decided Gs complaint should be upheld.
As I mentioned in my previous provisional decision, Gs claim is under the Material Damage
section of their policy and this carries the following extension in cover, which incorporates
the following term which UKI have relied on to reject Gs claim:
Theft of Motor Vehicles from the Premises during Business Hours by fraud, trick or pretence
not arising from:
a the wilful parting of title for such Motor Vehicle;
b unaccompanied demonstration; or
c theft by the Insured or any director of the Insured or any Partner of the Insured or
Employee.
When I did my previous provisional decision, I hadnt appreciated that it was possible to buy
optional cover for unaccompanied demonstrations. And I think it is clear from this cover that
many insurers consider this term to refer to unaccompanied test drives. I appreciate what
UKI have said they think it means, but this is not really supported by the optional extension
for it that is provided by them and other insurers. Also, I dont think the other reference to
unaccompanied demonstration in Gs policy supports UKIs view that it means an
unaccompanied viewing as opposed to an unaccompanied test drive. I say this because the
term says:
An insured vehicle does not include a vehicle:2. Whilst out on loan, hire or unaccompanied demonstration (unless otherwise
stated) (my emphasis)
The words out on  in my opinion  apply to all three of the things described and I think out
on an unaccompanied demonstration implies being out on a test drive, as opposed to being
at the insured premises on a viewing. 
This means in view of UKIs use of the term unaccompanied demonstration and what other
insurers appear to consider it means, I now think it should be taken to mean an
unaccompanied test drive.
I think its clear from the evidence provided that the thief who stole Gs car wasnt going on a
test drive and he certainly wasnt on one at the point he stole it. So, this is one reason why I
now dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to consider the term
unaccompanied demonstration as an unaccompanied viewing or test drive and allow UKI to
rely on the abovementioned term to reject Gs claim.
The other reason I think the term unaccompanied demonstration should be considered to
mean an unaccompanied test drive is that it is  in my opinion - unclear and a reasonable
interpretation of it is an unaccompanied test drive. And Mr W is right that in law and as a
matter of whats fair and reasonable, the party who didnt draft the contract the term is in
should get the benefit of the reasonable interpretation most favourable to them. In this case
UKI drafted the contract and they havent defined the term unaccompanied demonstration.
And, as I consider it could be reasonably interpreted to mean unaccompanied test drive, I
think this is the meaning that should be used when considering whether the abovementioned
term can be applied to defeat Gs claim. There are two reasons I think unaccompanied test
drive is a reasonable interpretation. One is that other insurers offer cover for unaccompanied
demonstrations and it seems this could equally be described as unaccompanied test drives.
The second is, the word demonstration is  in my opinion  more synonymous with someone
showing someone how the car works whilst it is being driven, as opposed to viewing it with
them whilst it is stationary, even allowing for the fact that a viewing might in some small part
include showing them how things like the infotainment system works.
As I also think the term unaccompanied demonstration could on a reasonable interpretation
be considered as an unaccompanied test drive, it follows that because the thief who stole
Gs car wasnt on a test drive, it would not produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint if I were to allow UKI to rely on the abovementioned exclusion.
I have noted Mr Ws point about the term being unusual and significant. The fact it is in other
policies provided by UKI is not  in my opinion  a major consideration in determining
whether it is unusual. Its more about whether it appears in policies provided by other
insurers across the market. If it is unusual and/or significant, it would mean as a matter of
good industry practice it should be highlighted in a product information document provided to
G. But UKI are right to say it was also Gs brokers responsibility to highlight unusual terms.
However, as I now dont consider UKI is entitled to rely on the term to reject Gs claim, this
issue is not material to the outcome of Gs complaint.
Ive also noted what Mr W has said about the thief not being unaccompanied. But again, this
now has no bearing on the outcome of Gs complaint, so Ive not considered it further.
In summary, for the reasons set out above, Ive now provisionally decided UKI is not entitled
to rely on the abovementioned term to reject Gs claim. And this means I consider the fair
and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for me to require UKI to settle Gs claim in
accordance with the remaining policy terms. I also consider UKI should pay interest on any
amount due to G at 8% per annum simple. This is because G has been without funds itshould have had and needs to be compensated for this. This should be paid from one month
after G submitted its claim, as this allows a period for UKI to consider it, to the date of actual
payment.
I gave the parties until 2 March 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in response 
to my second provisional decision. 
G has responded to say it accepts it and has no further comments.
UKI have responded to say they do not agree with my second provisional decision. Theyve 
said they could understand it better if I was referring to a clause in the Road Risks section of 
Gs policy. And that there is nothing to confirm that a demonstration would be interpreted as 
a test drive, especially as the term theyve relied on is under the Material Damage section of 
Gs policy and covers vehicles while they are on the insured premises. So they think the 
term demonstration must be showing a client how the vehicle works. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it remains my view that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is 
for it to be upheld. 
I appreciate what UKI have said about the fact that the term theyve relied on is in the 
Material Damage section of Gs policy. But I still think it could apply to exclude a claim if 
someone stole a car from the insured premises on the basis they were going to take it out on 
a test drive. And I note that the Road Risks section does not cover vehicles at all while they 
are on the insured premises. 
For me, the problem is that the term unaccompanied demonstration is not defined and is 
unclear. And that where it is used elsewhere in the policy and in motor trade policies 
generally it usually refers to an unaccompanied test drive. In light of UKIs comment about it 
appearing in the Material Damage section of Gs policy, Ive thought about what a 
reasonable policyholder like G, ie a motor trader, with the background knowledge theyd 
reasonably have available to them would have thought the term unaccompanied 
demonstration meant if they reviewed the contract, ie the policy wording. And, given that the 
term is widely used in the industry to refer to an unaccompanied test drive. And that it is 
possible to buy additional cover for unaccompanied demonstrations that clearly covers 
unaccompanied test drives, I consider a reasonable policyholder would have thought it 
referred to an unaccompanied test drive. So, for this and the reasons I set out in my more 
recent provisional decision, I still think the term is unclear and considering it to refer to an 
unaccompanied test drive is a reasonable interpretation, which G should get the benefit of. 
It therefore follows that I do not consider it would be fair for UKI to rely on the term theyve 
relied on to reject Gs claim on the basis that the thief stole the car whilst carrying out an 
unaccompanied viewing.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my second provisional decision, I consider the fair and 
reasonable outcome to Gs complaint is for UKI not to be allowed to rely on the 
abovementioned term in the Material Damage section of Gs policy, which refers to an 
unaccompanied demonstration, to reject Gs claim. And for UKI to be required to settle Gs 
claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms. I also consider UKI should pay interest on any amount due to G at 8% per annum simple. 
This is because G has been without funds it should have had and needs to be compensated 
for this. This should be paid from one month after G submitted its claim, as this allows a 
period for UKI to consider it, to the date of actual payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Gs complaint about U K 
Insurance Limited and order them to do what Ive set out in the Putting things right section 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman