DRN-4196606
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with Paysafe Financial Services Limiteds (trading as Neteller) decision to 
close her account and retain her funds.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms B opened an account with Neteller and made deposits into it. She said 
she mainly used the account to receive money for freelancing work. In December 2019, 
Neteller conducted a review of Ms Bs account. Following the review, Neteller decided to 
close the account with immediate effect. At the time Ms Bs balance was around $2,400 
USD.
When it closed the account, Neteller asked Ms B to provide a selfie photograph holding an 
identification document and utility bill as part of its verification process, so that it could return 
Ms Bs balance to her. Neteller also asked Ms B to provide certified copies of her bank 
statements. The documents Ms B provided failed that verification check. So Neteller didnt 
release Ms Bs balance.
Ms B was informed about Netellers decision. They told Ms B that to be able to approve a 
refund of her remaining account balance she would need to submit a further a picture of 
herself holding her ID document in close sight of her face and a recently issued utility bill 
confirming her address. Ms B sent Neteller further photos and documents. However, all the 
address documents and bank statements Ms B submitted were rejected as they did not meet 
Netellers security and verification requirements.
 
Ms B was unhappy about Netellers actions and complained. She explained that she needed 
access to her funds as she was suffering from a serious health condition, was in severe 
financial hardship, unable to buy food for her young child and pay for medical treatment for 
her husband. To try and move things forward, Neteller arranged to speak to Ms B via a video 
call 24 January 2023, so that it could complete its security and verification requirements. 
However, Ms B didnt attend the call. Following this Ms B contacted Neteller to say that due 
to problems with the camera on her mobile phone she couldnt join the video call.
Neteller organised another video call with Ms B in April 2023. On this occasion a photograph 
of a different woman appeared on the screen. The photograph didnt resemble the 
photographic evidence previously submitted by Ms B and appeared to be a totally different 
person  despite claiming to be Ms B. Neteller asked the individual security questions about 
Ms B and her account, but the individual wasnt able to satisfy Neteller that they were 
speaking to the genuine Ms B, so, the call was ended. To date Neteller are still withholding 
the account balance.
Ms B was unhappy about the actions taken by Neteller, so she referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by one of our investigators who said Neteller hadnt done anything 
wrong. Ms B disagreed. She says shes submitted various documents including 
photographic identification  and doesnt understand why Neteller wont release the money in 
the account back to her. She wants to be told whats wrong with the documents shes 
submitted to Neteller. And she wants her money back. Shes explained that not having 
access to the funds has had a terrible impact on her life and mental health, so much so that 
she has considered taking her own life. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Ms B has told us and Neteller that she feels very strongly about her 
complaint. Im sorry to hear that Ms B has been unwell because of what happened. Ive read 
and considered all of Ms Bs submissions regarding her complaint, but Ill concentrate on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think it is the right outcome. 
Ill deal first with Netellers decision to close Ms Bs account. As the investigator has already 
explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Each financial 
institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open or close 
accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial decision that a financial 
institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has 
had their account closed.
I know Ms B is upset that Neteller closed her account. But having looked at all the 
information available to me, including Netellers actions and the information its provided Im 
satisfied that Neteller had sufficient grounds to close Ms Bs account and did so in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, I cant say Neteller has treated Ms B unfairly 
when it decided it no longer wanted her as a customer and closed her account.
The crux of Ms Bs complaint is that she wants the funds in her account, which is around 
$2,400 USD returned to her. Shes said that this is money she has earnt through freelancing 
work. It seems Neteller is willing to release the money to Ms B. But in order to do so Ms B 
has to complete Netellers verification process, which I dont find unreasonable. 
I can see that Neteller has clearly explained this to Ms B on more than one occasion. And 
told her that this process is its standard procedure. So, Im satisfied that Ms B understands 
what she needs to do in order to satisfy Netellers request. Im also satisfied that Neteller has 
these processes in place in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations when 
providing accounts to customers. So, I cant say Neteller have done anything wrong by 
asking Ms B to provide the documents and verify her identification in order to complete this 
process. 
I appreciate that Ms B has supplied Neteller with a number of documents on at least two 
separate occasions. And that not having access to the funds has made things difficult for her 
financially. But I can also see that Neteller has told Ms B what she needs to provide in order 
for the funds to be released to her. Neteller has also confirmed that the documents provided 
by Ms B to date arent acceptable. Having looked at the documents I dont think thats 
unreasonable. 
I can also see that Neteller have arranged two separate video calls with Ms B in an effort to 
complete its verification process and release the funds. Ive watched the video recordings of these two calls. On the first call in January 2023, Ms B simply didnt attend. A further call 
took place in April 2023 but having watched the video recording its very clear to me that the 
individual taking part in the call purporting to be Ms B isnt the same woman who had been in 
contact with Neteller up until this point. As a result, Neteller couldnt complete its verification 
process. Overall, I think Neteller had good reason for withholding Ms Bs account balance as 
it wasnt able to verify who they were speaking to  based on the recording Im satisfied that 
it wasnt the account holder, Ms B. So, its up to Ms B to now provide the information 
necessary in order to be sent the funds.
I know Ms B wants to know exactly what the problem was with the documents she provided 
Neteller. But I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We 
may treat evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains information about other customers, security information or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Neteller has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able 
to share a lot of detail with Ms B, but Id like to reassure her that I have considered 
everything.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Ms B feels about whats happened. I dont doubt it has 
been a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Ms B will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Neteller have acted unreasonably 
and treated Ms B unfairly in taking the actions it did. So, I wont be asking Neteller to release 
the funds held in Ms Bs account back to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman