DRN-4275618
The complaint
Mr M (on behalf of his business, MW) is unhappy Tide Platform Ltd (trading as Tide) wont 
reimburse his business account for the money lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr M fell victim to a safe account scam. On 15 February 2023 he was contacted by 
individuals claiming to be from Tide, who said that MWs business account was at risk and 
that he needed to move the funds to a safe account to protect them. Unfortunately, and 
unknown to him at the time, Mr M was actually speaking with fraudsters.
Believing that he was genuinely dealing with Tide, Mr M ended up moving significant funds 
from MWs Tide account to another Tide account which the scammers gave him details of. In 
total, Mr M transferred over £32,000.
When the scammers then pressed him to also transfer funds from another account he held 
with a different bank, he realised hed been the victim of a scam and immediately reported 
the matter to Tide to see if it could help stop the payments or recover the funds. Tide logged 
the fraud and contacted the third party bank the funds had been moved onto after theyd 
been sent to the safe account to see if it could recover any of Mr Ms funds.
On 12 March 2023 Tide refunded £6,111.68 to Mr M, as it had been able to recover these 
funds from the third-party bank. Tide messaged Mr M to tell him this and suggested he 
contact Action Fraud.
Mr M was unhappy with Tides response, hed raised a formal complaint about what had 
happened on 17 February 2023 and also felt that Tide was not properly responding to his 
concerns. Ultimately, on 16 March 2023, Tide issued Mr M with a final response to his 
complaint. It explained that it had looked into what had happened and felt that it could have 
prevented the fraud, so it offered to refund the remainder of the money Mr M had lost, a 
further £26,450.78.
Mr M did not accept this offer, he felt that Tide should also be paying compensation for the 
impact of what had happened on him and his business. So Mr M referred the matter to our 
service. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. Ultimately, and given that Tide had 
accepted that it could have prevented the fraud here, our Investigator found that Tide should 
pay some compensation to Mr M. They recommended Tide pay interest of 8% on the funds 
from the date of the payments to the date of settlement, and an additional £160.01 for 
inconvenience and to cover a fine Mr Ms business had received as a result of not having 
access to the funds.
Neither Mr M nor Tide was happy with the investigators findings. Mr M feels that the 
compensation offered does not go far enough to recognise the impact of what happened on 
his business. Tide agreed to pay the £160.01 but does not think it is fair for it to pay 8% 
interest. It says the funds would have been returned to Mr M much earlier if he had accepted 
the refund when it was first offered, and does not think its customer service was as poor as 
Mr M claims.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons. 
Given that Tide has accepted that it could have prevented this fraud, and has refunded the 
full amount lost to the scam, I do not intend to go into any further detail about that issue. The 
only issue remaining to consider is that of compensation.
 
Mr M has provided detailed submissions about the impact of what happened, I wont detail 
all he has said here, but I want to reassure him that I have thought carefully about everything 
he has told us. And I dont doubt that what has happened had a serious impact on him and 
his business. 
However, I also must bear in mind that the root cause of what happened here is that Mr M 
was the victim of a crime. At least partial responsibility for the impact of what happened here 
must lie with the scammers. And I also think its worth noting that Tide had offered to refund 
the full amount lost by 16 March 2023, around a month after the scam happened. I 
appreciate that Mr M did not want to accept that offer at the time, but given the impact he 
has said all this was having on his business I think accepting the refund of the lost funds 
(and then continuing to pursue further compensation separately, as he did when he 
ultimately accepted the refund in May 2023) could have helped limit this impact. With all this 
in mind, I dont think I can reasonably say that Tide is wholly responsible for the full impact 
on his business that Mr M has detailed to us.
I also consider that, while no doubt frustrating to Mr M that he was not getting answers as 
quickly as he hoped, it was reasonable for Tide to need some time to look into what had 
happened and to try to retrieve the funds from the bank they were ultimately passed to. Until 
it had properly investigated the fraud, Tide would not have known exactly what had 
happened or been able to identify where things had gone wrong. 
I do though agree that there was poor service provided here, particularly regarding Mr Ms 
correspondence with Tide. Tide has confirmed that it closed a chat session without giving 
time for Mr M to reply, and that Mr M was sent messages that were not relevant to him, 
adding to his frustrations. And there were delays in Tide providing meaningful updates to 
Mr M.
Our investigator set out compensation as 8% interest on the lost funds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement, plus an additional amount for inconvenience. Tide have 
argued that the amount of interest theyre being asked to pay is higher because Mr M 
delayed accepting the refund offered on 16 March 2023 until May 2023, and I can 
understand why they feel that way. However, I think it could also be argued that Tide did not 
need to wait for Mr M to accept the offer before refunding the scam payments to his account. 
In any case, my role here is to decide, overall, what is a fair and reasonable way to resolve 
this complaint. And, in the round, I consider that the compensation recommended by our 
investigator is reasonable in the circumstances. The interest payment is intended to recognise the impact that the loss of use of the funds had on Mr M and his business, and I 
consider that, along with the additional payment to recognise further inconvenience, is a fair 
resolution to this complaint.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M, given the compensation he has asked for, but 
I hope he will understand the reasons for my decision.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Tide should:
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the disputed payments, calculated from 15 
February 2023, until the date the funds were returned to MWs account.
- Pay an additional £160.01
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Tide Platform Ltd (trading as Tide) should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask MW to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman