DRN-2364184
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of his company, that I will refer to as Y, about how Allianz 
Insurance Plc handled his claim following a flood at the companys premises.
What happened
Mr B took out a complete office insurance policy with Allianz on behalf of Y. This covered 
the equipment and business contents he used at Ys offices.
In February 2020 there was a flood at the building where Ys offices are located. In March 
2020 Mr B made a claim on the policy as a number of items of contents had been damaged 
in the flood, including electrical equipment. 
Allianz appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. Mr B sent them details of all the items 
that had been damaged and provided invoices to prove ownership. However the loss 
adjuster said the electrical items would need to be tested to show they were beyond 
economical repair. They contacted Mr B to arrange a date to do this.
Mr B didnt agree for the items to be tested. He said that he had expertise in electronics and 
could tell they werent safe to use. He also said they had confidential information about his 
business on, so it wouldnt be suitable for them to be taken away from him. Finally he said 
he was using some of the items seven days a week for his business and for studying. So he 
wouldnt be able to give them away for any period of time. 
Because of this, Allianz said Mr B could arrange to get his own tests completed on the 
electrical equipment and said it would reimburse him for the cost of this. Mr B didnt agree to 
this either. 
As Allianz werent able to validate the claim, no further progress was made. In April 2020 
Mr B made a complaint as he said he had provided a lot of information about the items and 
Allianz should replace the items without needing to test them.
In June 2020 Allianz issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said it needs to be able to validate a claim, and to do this it would need to test 
the damaged equipment. It reiterated its offer to pay for Mr B to get an independent test 
carried out but said it wouldnt be able to progress the claim further without this.
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He said he thought Allianz were just trying to avoid paying his 
claim. And he said Allianz and its agents had ignored him for several months which was poor 
service. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said it is reasonable that 
Allianz need to validate the claim and as it hasnt been able to, then this is the reason the 
claim hasnt been progressed. 
Mr B still didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to make clear the remit of my decision. I am considering the complaint Mr B 
made to Allianz in April 2020. Which was addressed by its final response in June 2020. I 
understand that since this date the claim has progressed, and the equipment has now been 
tested. Mr B remains unhappy with Allianzs handling of the claim and has made a second 
complaint. As these matters are being dealt with separately, I wont be commenting about 
anything that happened after Allianzs final response in June.  So will only consider its 
actions up until this point.
In this complaint Mr B was unhappy that Allianz didnt progress his claim between when he 
made it in March until June 2020.
When an insurance claim is made, it is for the insured to prove that an event has occurred 
that is covered by the policy and that they have suffered a loss due to it. Insurers will often 
ask for additional information in order to validate the claim. This is usually to make sure that 
the damage or loss has been caused by the insured event and isnt excluded from cover.
In this case the insured event was a flood. And Mr B has explained that a number of items of 
contents were damaged. Allianz accepted there was an insured event and proceeded to try 
and validate Mr Bs claim. It said to do this it would need to test Mr Bs electrical equipment 
to see whether it could be repaired or would need to be replaced.
In Ys policy it states in the section covering contents:
Damage to the Property Insured by any cause not excluded, occurring during the Period of 
Insurance
1 Property other than clothing:
a replacement of property totally lost or destroyed, with no deduction for wear and tear or 
depreciation, provided:
1 the Sum Insured is adequate to pay for replacement of the Property Insured and
2 such replacement is carried out without delay. If the Property Insured totally lost or 
destroyed is not replaced the amount payable shall be the market value of the totally lost or 
destroyed property.
b repair of damaged property.
So I can see that Allianz will replace property thats been damaged by an insured event 
where it has been totally lost or destroyed. And where it has been damaged but not totally 
destroyed, it will repair the property.
Mr B has said that the electronic equipment damaged by the flood was no longer safe to 
use, so should be replaced. He has also said that he is an expert in electronics and has 
done further research by contacting the manufacturers of the items. So thinks this should be 
enough for Allianz to replace them.
While I dont doubt that Mr B has a good understanding of how the equipment works, I dont 
think he has done enough to prove to Allianz that the equipment is beyond repair. He hasnt 
provided any detail about the specific electrical faults of the items or evidence that he has 
carried out any kind of professional check or test. And while he has provided links to 
manufacturers websites that state the equipment shouldnt be subjected to damp conditions, this is all generic information. And Ive not seen anything to show how the specific items are 
currently functioning and how they have been affected by the flood. 
As Ive outlined, the policy only provides cover for a full replacement of an item where it has 
been totally destroyed. And where it hasnt, Allianz would seek to repair the item. As it is 
Allianz who will be paying the claim, I dont think its unreasonable that it has asked that the 
items are tested. As if they can be repaired this would be the first course of action under the 
policy. And I dont agree Mr B has done enough to show that Ys items of contents have 
been totally destroyed by the flood and therefore should be replaced by Allianz. 
Mr B has said it wouldnt be possible for the items to be tested as they have confidential 
information on and he wouldnt be comfortable putting them in someone elses care. He has 
also said that he needs them seven days a week for his business and studies. Although it 
isnt clear why he requires constant access to equipment that has been damaged beyond 
repair, I can understand Mr Bs concerns around confidential information stored on the 
devices. Allianz has offered to pay for him to get the tests done himself. So he could arrange 
it at his convenience and wouldnt need to send the equipment away. And I think this is fair. 
So for these reasons I dont agree that Allianz has treated Mr B unfairly when dealing with 
Ys claim. It hasnt declined the claim, just said that it needs further information to validate it. 
And I agree it hasnt got enough information to show the items have been damaged beyond 
repair, so has acted fairly by asking for more information.
Mr B has also said he is unhappy with how the claim was progressed. He says Allianz 
ignored him between March and June 2020 which is poor service. Ive reviewed the 
correspondence provided by Allianz and I dont agree it has delayed the claim unnecessarily 
or that it ignored him. It had been asking Mr B to arrange testing of the items almost from the 
start of the claim, and until it had this information it wasnt able to move forward. So I dont 
think Allianz was responsible for delays to the claim between March and June 2020.
For these reasons I dont think Allianz has acted unfairly when dealing with Ys claim. So I 
wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman