DRN-4356291
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a claim they made on their Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs S say Aviva treated them unfairly.
All references to Aviva in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their Aviva legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring 
claims against their former employer. Aviva took the initial view that the claims might not be 
covered because they didnt fall within the scope of the employment cover provided by the 
policy. They asked for further information to determine this and the merits of the claims, 
which Mr and Mrs S own Solicitors supplied.
Aviva instructed a panel firm to consider the position. The panel firm took the view that the 
claims didnt have reasonable prospects of success, as required by the policy. Aviva said 
they were prepared to reconsider the position if Mr and Mrs S were able to supply any new 
information or evidence that might change things, or a positive legal opinion of their own 
from their own Solicitor. 
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about the panel firms assessment- they say it was flawed. 
Theyre also unhappy with the claims process, which they say was slow, unfair and unclear. 
As such, they want Aviva to pay their legal fees from the time they made their claim for 
cover.
Our investigator considered their complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She 
thought that Aviva were entitled to rely on the advice of their panel firm and that the 
approach they followed was in line with the process followed by legal expenses insurance 
providers generally. In addition, she didnt think Aviva had caused any undue delays in their 
handling of the claim.
In reply to the investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs S made a number of submissions, 
including that they did submit a legal challenge to Aviva, but this was never considered. Our 
investigator put these points to Aviva who provided a response on those submissions. The 
investigator then considered things again and delivered a second assessment of Mr and Mrs 
S's complaint. She said the legal challenge Mr and Mrs S say they submitted was Mr S own 
opinion and not that of another comparable Solicitor. She also said that Aviva provided Mr 
and Mrs S with clear information about what theyd need to do if they wanted to challenge 
the panel firms view and theyre still entitled to take Aviva up on this if they wish to do so.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view. Theyve made a number of further 
submissions in response to it, so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S have made considerable submissions in this complaint. I wont be addressing 
each one of those in this decision. Rather, Ill deal with the main points theyre unhappy with. 
Thats not to say that I havent taken everything theyve said into account. My approach 
simply reflects the informal nature of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr and 
Mrs S policy is no exception. That means their claims needed to have over 51% prospects 
of succeeding in order for Aviva to cover them.
We dont think this is unfair. Litigation can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong
or based on factual mistakes. Aviva did this. 
Im satisfied that the Solicitor was experienced in the area of law Mr and Mrs S were asking 
for help with. I understand he was also qualified to advise on Scottish law, which should 
alleviate Mr and Mrs Ss concerns about this specific issue. In addition, Ive seen nothing 
that suggests the advice was based on factual mistakes. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S dont 
agree with the advice theyve received but thats not something I can consider. If, as Aviva 
said, they were to provide an alternative reasoned opinion from a Solicitor (and not 
something summarising any advice they might have been given themselves), then I would 
expect Aviva to consider that. Equally, if they provided Aviva with any new evidence or 
information that has now come to light that might change the outcome of their assessment, I 
would expect Aviva to refer that back to their panel firm. But as matters stand, I cant say 
Aviva did something wrong by relying on the legal opinion they received.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S dont agree with the way in which their claim was handled. 
They dont feel it was clear or fair. But I dont agree. The policy terms make clear the 
prospects requirement and that a lawyer will assess their case to determine their chances of 
winning. So, whilst Mr and Mrs S might have expected their own lawyer to be appointed to 
do this, I dont think that Aviva misled them or did something wrong by appointing their own 
panel firm to undertake this task. If their claim was found to have reasonable prospects of 
succeeding, Aviva would ultimately be responsible for Mr and Mrs S legal fees, so theyre 
entitled to take advice from their own choice of Solicitors in this regard. Equally Mr and Mrs 
S are entitled to challenge this with reference to their own legal opinion if they think this is 
wrong. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S havent wanted to be put to the cost of doing this until now, 
but that doesnt mean that Aviva need to fund their claim or that the position theyve taken is 
unfair. 
In response to the investigators second view of their complaint, Mr and Mrs S have now 
supplied an email from their Solicitor which states that the negotiations that are taking place 
between the parties currently and that the opposing party acknowledges the strength of their claims, and that Mr and Mrs S might expect to receive more than is owed to that party. This 
email hasnt yet been referred to Aviva but Im not sure it makes much difference to the 
merits of Mr and Mrs Ss claim for cover. The email doesnt provide a reasoned legal opinion 
with an assessment of the merits of their claim, so I anticipate it will be unlikely to result in 
cover being granted. If Aviva reach this view, were unlikely to say its unreasonable.  
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the information they were given about the policy and 
the suitability of it when taking it out. I wont be addressing that issue in this decision 
because that concerns the sale of the policy which is a separate complaint to the one Im 
dealing with here. This complaint concerns the claim that was made on it by the insurer 
rather than the seller of the policy.
Finally and for the sake of completeness, I havent seen any considerable delays in Avivas 
handling of Mr and Mrs S claim, such that I consider they prejudiced them in any way or that 
they need to do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman