DRN-3191715
The complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Honda Finance Europe plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr M entered a fixed sum loan agreement (point of sale loan) in August 2019 to acquire a 
used vehicle. He paid £13,960 for the vehicle. He paid a cash deposit of £8,000 and agreed 
to repay the balance including any charges and interest over a four-year term.
He says the vehicle cut out repeatedly in March 2020 and the engine failed. He took the 
vehicle back to the supplier to have it checked and it told him the cylinder was broken and 
the piston rings were missing. It said the piston rings had been found in the bottom of the 
cylinder. He sent a letter of complaint to the dealer, dated 18 March 2020, and asked it to 
repair or replace the vehicle, free of charge. It declined.
Mr M arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by a third party. He also sent copies of GoPro 
Footage which had been recorded on the vehicles SD card to the third party. The GoPro 
footage had recorded incidents on 4 November 2019 where the vehicle had cut out and had 
to be jump started. Further incidents had been recorded on 7 February 2020 when the 
vehicle had been unable to hold idle and on 12 March 2020 when the vehicle had cut out 
repeatedly and lost power.
The third party carried out diagnostic tests and inspected the vehicle using a borescope 
camera. It also reviewed the GoPro footage. It prepared a report for Mr M. The report said 
the engine failure showed all signs of being caused by the failure of an exhaust valve in one 
of the cylinders. A cylinder valve had broken and fallen into the cylinder causing catastrophic 
damage to many of the engine components and casings. The report said that the engine 
failure was not caused by wear and tear, misuse of the vehicle damage. It estimated that the 
cost of the repairs would be almost £19,000.
Mr M provided a copy of this report to the supplier and he complained to Honda Finance. It 
investigated his complaint. It said there was no evidence to demonstrate that the vehicle was 
faulty at the time it was supplied. It pointed out that Mr M had used a different dealership to 
service the vehicle in February 2020 and the oil used in that service hadnt been in line with 
the manufacturers guidelines. Semi synthetic oil had been used instead of synthetic oil. It 
didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr M didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said that under the terms of the loan 
agreement, Honda Finance was jointly liable for a breach of contract. He then considered 
the Consumer Rights Act (CRA). He said that under the CRA there was an implied term that 
the quality of the goods would be satisfactory.
When Mr M acquired the vehicle, it was three years old and had travelled 4457 miles. The 
original price of the vehicle had been £15,000, and Mr M had paid £13,960 when he 
acquired it. In these circumstances our investigator thought that a reasonable person would 
expect parts of the vehicle to have suffered some wear and tear but that overall expectations 
would be high, given the price that had been paid, the age of the vehicle and the low 
mileage.
He then considered the technical report and the GoPro footage which Mr M had provided. 
Honda Finance hadnt provided anything to support what it had said about the fault not being 
present at the point of supply. Our investigator said, on balance, he was persuaded the 
goods were not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He noted the faults that hed 
seen on the GoPro footage dated November 2019. He thought this was consistent with the 
faults thatd been identified when the vehicle was inspected by the third party. So, on 
balance, he said he wasnt persuaded that the fault had been caused by the type of oil used 
during the service in February 2020.
Our investigator thought the cost of repairing the vehicle was likely to be disproportionate.
Our investigator also considered what Mr M had said about not being told the vehicle had 
been modified prior to it being acquired by him. He noted the invoice which Mr M had been 
able to provide which showed that the vehicle had been modified in August 2018. He hadnt 
been told about this and hed told us that he wouldnt have acquired the vehicle if hed 
known about this. Our investigator said this was a misrepresentation by the supplier for 
which Honda Finance was also jointly liable. In these circumstances, he thought Mr M 
should be able to reject the vehicle.
Our investigator said that Honda Finance needed to take the following action to put things 
right:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the vehicle (if this had not been done already) at no further cost to 
the customer;
refund Mr M all rentals for the period from 18 March 2020 to the date of settlement 
as the customer reasonably stopped using the vehicle at this point;
refund Mr M for the cost of diagnostics completed by the third party including the 
physical inspection and video footage review. This cost had been incurred as a 
result of the inherent quality issues with the vehicle;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £200 for trouble and upset thatd been caused due to the 
faulty goods; and
remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
agreement.
Our investigator subsequently confirmed that he also required Honda Finance to refund 
the deposit of £8,000 which Mr M had paid.
Honda Finance disagreed. It said Mr M hadnt contacted the dealership or Honda 
Finance until twelve months after the date of the agreement. It hadnt seen the report 
Mr M had obtained from the third-party. It also said that the performance related issues 
which Mr M had experienced in November 2019 were not related to the subsequent fault 
that had occurred. It noted that the dealer had carried out Pre-Delivery Checks before 
the vehicle had been acquired by Mr M and nothing had shown up at that time. It 
reiterated that the service carried out in February 2020 hadnt noted any issues with the 
engine. It said the investigators view was harsh.Because Honda Finance didnt agree with what our investigator said, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mr Ms complaint is about the vehicle not being of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. Hes also subsequently raised an issue about not being 
told the vehicle had been modified before he acquired it. I have considered 
both issues below:
Quality of the vehicle
When considering if Honda Finance acted fairly and reasonably in how its 
dealt with Mr Ms complaint, I take into account relevant law. In this case, 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act applies. Under section 75, Honda 
Finance would be jointly and severally liable for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
First, Im satisfied that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier link was in place 
for Mr M to make a claim under section 75. I say this because Mr M acquired 
the vehicle through a fixed sum loan agreement. The agreement clearly 
states the details of the vehicle that Mr M acquired. The agreement also 
makes clear that if the goods are unsatisfactory Mr M may have a claim 
against the supplier, the finance provider (Honda Finance) or both the 
supplier and the finance provider.
Secondly, Ive looked at the CRA. Under this legislation every contract to 
supply goods is to be treated as including a term that the quality of the goods 
is satisfactory. The CRA says that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking account of the description of the goods, the price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
So, when considering whether the vehicle Mr M acquired was of 
satisfactory quality I can take into account a number of factors such as the 
price he paid, the age of the vehicle and the mileage when the vehicle 
was acquired.
When Mr M acquired this vehicle, it was three years old and the mileage 
was relatively low. So, although it was reasonable to have expected some 
wear and tear to have occurred, I think a reasonable person wouldve had 
relatively high expectations of the vehicle. But, under the relevant law, I 
can only hold Honda Finance liable if the fault Mr M experienced was 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Having considered all of the evidence, Im persuaded on balance, that 
the fault with the engine was present or developing at the point of 
supply. Ill explain why:
The diagnostic report from the third party
The third party carried out a detailed inspection of the vehicle in May 2020 
and provided a report of its findings including photographic evidence to support what it said. It concluded that the fault with the vehicle was engine 
failure caused by the failure of an exhaust valve in one of the cylinders. The 
valve had broken and fallen into the cylinder causing catastrophic damage 
to many of the engine internals, components and casings.
The third party also viewed the GoPro footage. It said that the footage was 
consistent with the faults which it had noted in its report. It noted that a 
stretched or defective valve could cause fuelling and compression issues 
resulting in the engine cutting out and the vehicle being unable to idle. The 
third party said it found no evidence to indicate that the damage had been 
caused by wear and tear, misuse or accidental damage.
Honda Finance hasnt disputed the findings of the third-party report. Mr M 
had sent a copy of this report to the dealership. Its legal representatives 
commented on the report. It said the report failed to say what had caused 
the engine failure. Honda Finance said it hadnt received a copy of the 
report. Our investigator sent it a copy and Ive given it further time to 
consider it and provide any comments. It hasnt made any subsequent 
comment on the report or disputed its findings.
The third-party report notes that the problems which occurred on 4 
November 2019 are consistent with a stretched or defective valve.
The GoPro footage
Mr M provided GoPro footage. The third party reviewed this footage and 
provided a report on what it contained. Ive no reason to doubt the 
authenticity of what the third-party report says. The report says that the 
footage showed thered been a problem with the vehicle on 4 November 
2019. The vehicle had cut out and wasnt idling. It had to be jump started 
and was unable to hold a steady idle. The fault was intermittent on 4 
November and doesnt appear to have presented again until 7 February 
2020 when it became more severe with extra throttle having to be applied to 
steady the rpm.
Mr M didnt report these issues to the dealership or to Honda Finance. I can 
understand why he may not have done that, given the fact that the problem 
appears to have been intermittent. He had his vehicle serviced on 12 
February which was shortly after the incident which occurred on 7 February. 
He used a different dealership to carry out this service  Ill comment about 
that further below.
A further incident happened on 12 March when the vehicle cut out 
repeatedly and started to lose power. It was at this point that Mr M appears 
to have contacted the dealership. Ive looked at the document provided by 
the dealership dated 13 March 2020. It shows that the vehicle was 
recovered to the dealership on 13 March and inspected by it. It found that 
the cylinder was broken, and the piston rings were found in the bottom of 
the cylinder. This is consistent with what the third-party report also found.
In its response to what our investigator said, Honda Finance queried why 
Mr M hadnt reported the problem to either the dealership or it until 12 
months after the date of the agreement. But, thats not correct. Mr M did 
report the problem to the dealership on 13 March 2020. And as mentioned 
above, I can understand why he hadnt contacted it before that date since 
the problem had been intermittent.The service in February 2020
Honda Finance says that when Mr M got his vehicle serviced in February 
2020, he used a different dealership. And the oil it used to service the 
vehicle was not in line with the manufacturers instructions. It says that this 
may have caused the problem with the engine.
Honda Finance also says that there is nothing in the service report 
completed at the time to indicate there was a fault with the vehicle. And it 
has suggested that something may have been done during the service 
which caused the subsequent engine failure.
Although I agree that the service report didnt mention the fault with the 
vehicle, I wouldnt have expected it to. Mr M hadnt requested a full 
diagnostic report at this time.
Ive also thought about what Honda Finance has said about the work 
carried out when the service took place. But, the problem with the vehicle 
cutting out and not idling happened on 4 November 2019  just two months 
after Mr M acquired the vehicle. It happened again  more severely - in 
February 2020. The third-party report states that the incidents in November 
and February are consistent with a stretched or defective valve. Both of 
these incidents happened before the service date. So, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that the oil used in February, or anything that was done during 
the service of the vehicle, caused the fault that occurred.
Pre-Delivery Inspection
Honda Finance has provided a copy of the Pre-Delivery inspection checklist 
which was completed by the dealer before the vehicle was delivered to Mr M. 
It says that no faults were found at that time.
Ive looked at the Pre-Delivery Checklist and I can see that each item on 
that list was ticked. But the checklist also indicates that the check was 
based on a visual inspection only. As our investigator said, the problem with 
the cylinder wouldnt have been spotted during a visual check.
Conclusion
Having considered the report from the third party and its comments on the 
GoPro footage, Im currently persuaded, on balance, there was a problem 
present or developing at the point of supply with the exhaust valve
Overall, Im currently of the view that theres enough evidence to 
persuade me that the vehicle Mr M acquired was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
The usual remedies in these circumstances would be to require Honda 
Finance to either repair or replace the vehicle. I agree with what our 
investigator said about the cost of repair. The third party has estimated the 
cost of repair as being almost £19,000 which is considerably more than Mr 
M paid for the vehicle. So, Im satisfied that the cost of repair would be 
disproportionate. Mr M isnt seeking a replacement.
Ill comment further on what I think Honda Finance needs to do to put 
things right, below. Misrepresentation
Mr M has raised a further complaint with our service. He says that he wasnt 
told the vehicle had been modified before he acquired it. Hes provided an 
invoice dated 8 August 2018 which appears to be addressed to a previous 
owner. This indicates that certain modifications were carried out at that time. 
Mr M hasnt told us how he acquired this invoice, but I have no reason to 
doubt its authenticity.
Ive noted what Mr M has said here but he hasnt raised this issue with 
Honda Finance and it hasnt issued its final response to this part of his 
complaint. So, although I havent made any finding about this part of his 
complaint, Ive decided that I can still resolve this complaint without needing 
to investigate what hes said about misrepresentation.
What Ive provisionally decided needs to be done to put things right
Having considered everything here, Im minded to decide, for the reasons 
set out above, that it would be disproportionate to require Honda Finance to 
repair the vehicle. Mr M hasnt sought a replacement for the vehicle. In these 
circumstances, my provisional decision is that it would be fair and 
reasonable to require Honda Finance to allow Mr M to reject the vehicle.
I think Honda Finance should end the agreement entered into between it and 
Mr M - with nothing further for Mr M to pay. It should collect the vehicle (if 
this hasnt been done already) at no further cost to Mr M. I also think Honda 
Finance should refund the deposit of £8,000 which Mr M paid and refund all 
payments Mr M made under the agreement for the period from 18 March 
2020 to the date of settlement. I say this because up until that date, Mr M 
had been able to use the vehicle, despite the intermittent issues he 
experienced. If Honda Finance has reported any adverse information about 
Mr Ms agreement, I think it should remove that information.
It is the case that Mr M has incurred costs when progressing his complaint. 
Hes had to engage a third party to inspect the vehicle, review the video 
footage and prepare reports. In these circumstances, I think its fair and 
reasonable to require Honda Finance to refund Mr M for the cost of 
diagnostics completed by the third party including the physical inspection. 
This cost had been incurred as a result of the inherent quality issues with the 
vehicle. Mr M has provided a copy of the invoice from the third party. The 
cost incurred was £1,550. So, Ive decided that Honda Finance should 
reimburse this amount to Mr M.
I asked Mr M to provide a copy of the invoice for the cost incurred by him 
for the report provided by the third party in relation to the GoPro footage. 
He hasnt provided that to me. So, in the absence of evidence about the 
cost of this report, I havent currently been able to conclude he should be 
reimbursed for that cost.
Mr M has experienced trouble and upset because of what happened. Our 
investigator thought Honda Finance should pay him £200 because of this. 
Having thought about the matter, I think £200 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the trouble and upset Mr M has experienced.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint about Honda Finance Europe plc.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to require Honda Finance Europe plc 
to:
end the agreement entered into between it and Mr M - with nothing 
further for Mr M to pay;
collect the vehicle (if this hasnt been done already) at no further cost 
to Mr M;
refund the deposit of £8,000 which Mr M paid;
refund Mr M all payments hes made under the agreement for 
the period from 18 March 2020 to the date of settlement;
refund Mr M £1,550 being the cost of diagnostics completed by 
the third party including the physical inspection. This cost had 
been incurred as a result of the inherent quality issues with the 
vehicle;
pay 8%* simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
the agreement; and
pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset he experienced because of 
what happened.
* If Honda Finance Europe plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr M, 
it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Honda Finance said it had no further comments to make.
Mr M also made no further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved. For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I uphold this complaint and require Honda Finance to take the action Ive set out 
below.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about Honda Finance Europe plc. 
I now require Honda Finance Europe plc to take the following action:
end the agreement entered into between it and Mr M - with nothing further for Mr 
M to pay;
collect the vehicle (if this hasnt been done already) at no further cost to Mr M;
refund the deposit of £8,000 which Mr M paid;refund Mr M all payments hes made under the agreement for the period from 18 
March 2020 to the date of settlement;
refund Mr M £1,550 being the cost of diagnostics completed by the third party 
including the physical inspection. This cost had been incurred as a result of the 
inherent quality issues with the vehicle;
pay 8%* simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
agreement; and
pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset he experienced because of what 
happened.
* If Honda Finance Europe plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr M, 
it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman