DRN-3930629
The complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
On 23 November 2015, Mr C applied for a credit account with NewDay Ltd. The credit 
was approved with an initial credit limit of £450. There were three increases to the credit 
limit. It rose to £1,450 on 6 May 2016, to £2,650 on 15 September 2016 and to £3,750 on 
24 August 2018. The debt was sold to a third party in March 2019.   
In 2021, Mr C complained to NewDay Ltd to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay Ltd ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit limits.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be partially upheld. NewDay Ltd didnt 
agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 13 January 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
NewDay Ltd will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mr Cs complaint is that NewDay Ltd made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr C has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question, or to have provided more detail about the 
income coming into the home during this time. NewDay Ltd has explained that it carried out 
a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. 
Its possible that NewDay Ltd failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr C with 
credit and for the credit increases. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would 
have caused NewDay Ltd to think the initial credit limit or the credit increases were 
unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit would have been relatively modest. And subsequently through all of the 
credit increases the account was well managed. Overall, the payments were not missed or 
under paid for the most part and Mr C was not using the full credit limit available to him. 
And it was many months after the last credit limit increase that NewDay Ltd were 
contacted about financial difficulties. Ive seen no evidence that NewDay Ltd failed to treat 
Mr C with forbearance when he did. 
I have also noted the credit file that Mr C has provided. I note that for the time of the credit 
there are no adverse markings. So, having considered all the submissions made in this 
case, and in the absence of any extra evidence from Mr C to the contrary, I have seen 
insufficient evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have led 
NewDay Ltd to think that the credit it provided Mr C was unreasonable. Further, Im not 
persuaded that the way Mr C was managing his account or what NewDay Ltd could see of 
his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it 
did. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr C to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 27 January 2023. Neither party has responded to the provisional 
decision. The provisional decision was sent by email to the designated contact addresses of 
the two parties. And at the time of writing, I have received no request for an extension to 
make a further submission. I consider that both parties have had time sufficient to make a 
further submission had they wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons 
(above) for not upholding Mr Cs complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman