DRN-2631199
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined their travel insurance 
claim and about its service. My references to ERGO include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R bought their annual multi trip travel insurance policy in April 2019. The insurer 
was ERGO. In September 2019 they booked a trip abroad for December 2019. 
Sadly, Mrs Rs mother passed away in December 2019 and the trip had to be cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs R were refunded some of their trip costs but not their flights costs of £524 which 
they claimed on the policy.
ERGO declined the claim. The policy excluded any claims arising from a pre-existing 
medical condition of a relative that existed when the policy was bought or the trip booked. 
ERGO said the medical evidence showed Mrs Rs mother was first diagnosed with dementia 
in May 2019 before the trip was booked so there was no cover under the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs R complained to us. Mrs R said her mother had died unexpectedly at home. 
Although her mother had been diagnosed with dementia she was stable when they booked 
the trip and was otherwise in good health. But her mother deteriorated rapidly in her last 
week and the death certificate showed cause of death as Alzheimers, which Mrs R said was 
different to the dementia diagnosis received.
Mr and Mrs R are also unhappy with how ERGO dealt with their claim. It initially refused the 
claim on the basis of the wrong date for when they bought the policy. They had to pay for the 
cost of the medical declaration ERGO asked for, which wasnt covered by the policy. And 
having to continually go through the details of Mrs Rs mother's death and obtain information 
from her widowed father had been very distressing.
Our investigator said ERGO unfairly declined the claim as it should have taken into account 
that Mrs Rs mothers health had been stable when they booked the trip and her death was 
unexpected. He said ERGO should pay the claim and £50 compensation for Mr and Mrs Rs 
distress and inconvenience due to its poor service. 
Mr and Mrs R accept our investigators recommendation but ERGO disagrees and wants an 
ombudsmans decision. It said the pre-existing medical condition exclusion wasnt 
dependent on whether someones deterioration in health was unexpected so there was no 
cover for the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide if ERGO fairly and reasonably declined the claim and gave reasonable 
service, and I dont think it did. I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers irrecoverable travel costs Mr and Mrs R paid, or had contracted to pay, if 
they have to cancel due to the death of a relative. However there is no cover for a claim: 
Arising from a medical condition of  a Relative...if You were aware of the medical 
condition at the time Your Policy was issued or Your trip was booked.
Mrs Rs mothers dementia diagnosis was in May 2019 so Mr and Mrs R did know about the 
condition when they booked the trip in September 2019 (although not when they bought the 
policy in April 2019).   
Mrs R has said her mothers death certificate states cause of death as Alzheimers. But 
when her mothers doctor completed the medical form for ERGO s/he said death was due to 
rapid decompensation of clinically stable dementia.
So I think ERGO could reasonably understand there was a link between Mrs Rs mothers 
diagnosis of dementia and the reason she passed away. On a strict application of the policy 
terms ERGO could decline the claim as Mr and Mrs R knew about the diagnosis when they 
booked the trip.
However, in deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome I can step outside the strict 
policy terms if the circumstances of the case mean its fair to do so. Some of the things 
I consider are whether the relatives pre-existing medical condition was stable and whether 
the death was sudden and unexpected.
Mrs Rs mothers medical information is strong evidence that her health was stable, despite 
her diagnosis. In May 2019 a doctors report said that she appears in good health and that 
various tests listed in the report were grossly unremarkable.
When Mrs Rs mothers dementia diagnosis was given in May 2019 there was nothing to 
suggest to Mr and Mrs R that her health would deteriorate so quickly. Dementia is a 
progressive disease that someone could live with for many years. Mrs Rs mothers doctor 
said in the medical certificate that she had clinically stable dementia and hadnt been 
admitted to hospital and wasnt awaiting any tests. The doctor also said Mrs Rs mothers 
deterioration was sudden and unexpected, which confirms the sudden, unexpected nature 
of her death.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs R to book a trip in September 2019. They 
could reasonably understand that Mrs Rs mothers health was stable, theres no evidence 
that her health was deteriorating at that time or that her sudden death three months later 
was foreseeable.
I note ERGOs comments, following our investigators view, that under the policy wording 
about changes in health after issue of the policy Mr and Mrs R should have told the broker 
about her mothers change in health in May 2019. But one of the things I consider when 
deciding if an insurer can fairly rely on a relatives change in health to decline a claim is 
whether a reasonable person should have realised the condition might impact on their trip so 
they ought to tell their insurer. Ive detailed above why I think Mr and Mrs R reasonably 
understood her mothers health was stable and had no reason in September to think the 
condition may impact on their trip. So I dont think ERGO could fairly use the change of 
health policy provision to decline the claim. 
I think on a fair and reasonable basis ERGO should pay Mr and Mrs Rs claim, plus interest 
as Ive detailed below.
As to ERGOs service, I understand that it was a difficult and very distressing time particularly for Mrs R and her father. But ERGO reasonably asked for the medical 
information. Although she had to pay a fee for the doctor to provide the information it isnt 
claimable under the policy. The policy says a medical certificate is needed to support any 
medical related claim at the policyholders cost, with is a usual term in such policies and not 
unreasonable as a policyholder needs to support their claim.
ERGO did make a mistake when it initially declined the claim, saying the policy was bought 
in September 2019, not April 2019. Mrs R reasonably thought that error was important as 
she hadnt bought the policy after her mothers diagnosis. Although the terms of the pre-
existing medical condition exclusion meant it still applied at the time of booking the trip  
ERGO accepted the error caused additional upset. I think £50 compensation is a reasonable 
amount for ERGO to pay for Mr and Mrs Rs distress and inconvenience at its poor service.
Putting things right
ERGO must pay the claim plus interest as Ive detailed below and £50 compensation for 
Mr and Mrs Rs distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to pay:
Mr and Mrs Rs claim plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the 
date of settlement, and 
£50 compensation for Mr and Mrs Rs distress and inconvenience at its poor service.
*If ERGO Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs R how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman