The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, applied unfair 
charges on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr S had a credit card with Tesco Bank which he took out in 2008 and closed in 2016. 
Between early 2009 and mid 2016, Mr S incurred a number of £12 fees for times when he 
was over his credit card limit, or he didnt make a monthly payment on time.
In June 2019, Mr S complained that these charges were unfair and were disproportionately 
high. He said they were incurred during times when he was experiencing financial hardship 
and couldnt pay for basic necessities. Mr S felt the charges had made his financial situation 
worse. He asked Tesco Bank to refund the charges totalling £276, plus interest at a rate of 
9%.
Tesco Bank didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that Mr S had been given information 
when he opened his account which let him know that if a payment wasnt received or the 
credit limit was exceeded, then a £12 charge would be applied. Tesco Bank said the fees 
were fair and transparent and were applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the account. They were also set out on the reverse of each statement. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said that it was only within our remit to 
consider the charges applied in the last six years. However, he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He was satisfied that all the charges had been applied in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. The investigator couldnt see that Mr S had let Tesco 
Bank know that he was experiencing financial difficulties through the period he held his 
credit card for.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said the charges werent fair or reasonable, and there was some onus on credit providers to 
monitor and manage customers accounts. He said this extended to taking note of persistent 
over-limit and late payment issues and acting accordingly. He said he believes Tesco Bank 
could and should have done more for him, and intervened. Mr S said that Tesco Bank 
should be directed to refund unfair charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1155514Im sorry to hear that Mr S experienced a period of financial hardship. I can appreciate how 
this wouldve been a difficult time for him.
Mr S incurred these charges at times when he exceeded his credit limit, or he didnt make 
his required monthly payment by its due date. And it is set out in the terms and conditions of 
the credit card and on each monthly statement when the £12 charge may apply, as it did for 
Mr S. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that a term may be unfair, and so not enforceable, if it 
requires a consumer who fails to fulfil his obligations under the contract to pay a 
disproportionately high sum in compensation.
And the Office of Fair Trading looked at whether charges such as the ones incurred by Mr S 
were fair in principle by considering whether they were a true reflection of the businesss 
costs in dealing with the customers action. 
Considering the reason these charges were applied and the amount of them, I dont think 
they were unfairly applied in these circumstances. And they were applied in accordance with 
his credit card agreement. 
But I do appreciate what Mr S has told us about his own financial situation at the time they 
were applied. Banks do have a duty to consider circumstances of financial hardship 
positively and fairly, but that doesnt necessarily mean that it should necessarily refund 
charges and interest that have been incurred.
Having reviewed the notes of the contact Mr S had with Tesco Bank through the time his 
credit card account was open, I havent seen that he specifically made it aware that he was 
having financial difficulties. So, as it doesnt seem that Mr S asked Tesco Bank for help 
during this time, Ive considered whether it shouldve had a reason to proactively consider 
doing more for Mr S sooner, as hes suggested.
The majority of these charges look to have been applied in the period from early 2015 to mid 
2016, before Mr S closed the account. And I can see that Mr S feels that Tesco Bank 
shouldve been aware, or shouldve done more for his situation, given that he was often 
exceeding his credit limit at the time. 
Ive looked through Mr Ss statements through this time period, and considered when these 
charges were applied, and the times when his spending  together with the interest and 
charges  took him over his credit limit. Mr S continued to maintain his monthly payments 
through this period, although these were sometimes made after the monthly due date. And 
the payments he did make were often more than the minimum monthly payment, however 
they werent enough the also reduce the balance down to below the credit limit. 
I can see that each statement gave a warning that the account was over its limit and that this 
should be cleared, which could mean an additional payment over the minimum shown was 
needed. A number to call with any queries about this was also given.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Ss use of his credit card should necessarily 
have alerted Tesco Bank that he was having difficulties managing his finances. And, if Mr S 
did feel that was the case, then I think there were steps he couldve taken to speak with 
Tesco Bank about this at the time. 
Overall, I dont think Tesco Bank has acted unreasonably or unfairly. The charges it applied 
were done so correctly, and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. As a result, I dont think it would be fair to require Tesco Bank to refund the charges Mr S 
incurred for making his payments late or exceeding his credit limit. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman