DRN-3798708
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the advice he was given by Bradford & Bingley Limited to 
transfer out of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. 
Mr R considers the advice wasnt in his best interests.
What happened
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of the 
complaint to both parties on 21 October 2022. The investigator set out the reasons why he 
thought we could consider the complaint and the reasons why he thought it should be 
upheld.
In summary, the investigator explained that we were bound by the Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP) which were set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. These included 
rules on time; we could only consider complaints that were referred to us within the relevant 
time limits. These limits, set out in DISP 2.8.2, provide that the ombudsman couldnt 
consider a complaint if it was referred to us more than:
a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
The investigator said the complaint had been made in 2021, which was clearly more than six 
years after the event complained of; the transfer which was completed in 1991. He said hed 
therefore considered whether the complaint had been made within the relevant three-year 
time period.
Bradford and Bingley had said the complaint might have been referred out of time because 
the transfer may have been reviewed as part of the regulators industry wide pension review 
carried out in the late 1990s. It provided a copy of a letter that it had sent to the 
administrators of the OPS dated 1 September 1998, asking it for information about the 
pension benefits that Mr R had held with it. 
The investigator said that Bradford and Bingley hadnt been able to provide evidence that 
pension review invitation letters  letters offering Mr R the opportunity to have the advice to 
transfer reviewed  had been sent to Mr R. He said these letters may have started a chain of 
events leading to Mr R becoming aware that he had cause for complaint. He also said that 
although there was the copy of the letter to the OPS administrators, there was no evidence 
of a review outcome. And Mr Rs personal pension provider had confirmed that it couldnt 
find any evidence that it had received any redress into Mr Rs pension that might relate to 
the pension review. 
The investigator said the firm were required to keep evidence of the pension review it had 
carried out.  And taking all the above into account, the investigator didnt think Bradford & 
Bingley had provided enough evidence about the pension review to show that as a result of 
it Mr R ought reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for complaint more than 
three years before he complained. 
The investigator also said that he hadnt seen any other information that might suggest that 
Mr R ought reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for complaint more than 
three years before the complaint was made. He said Mr R had transferred his pension to 
different pension providers, and it wouldnt have been easy for him to have compared the 
personal pension benefits with those that would otherwise have been provided by the OPS. 
Overall therefore, the investigator didnt think the complaint had been made out of time, and 
said he thought we could consider it. He therefore went onto investigate the merits of the 
complaint.
The investigator said that at the time of transfer Mr R was in his early thirties, married and 
with two dependent children. He had no other investments or savings and a low capacity for 
loss. The investigator said there was very little information available. However he thought it 
would have been very difficult for the personal pension arrangement to have matched the 
benefits in the OPS. And on the limited information that was available, it was more likely than 
not that the advice to transfer was unsuitable. 
Bradford and Bingley said it had never contested that the advice to transfer was suitable. It 
said it had very little point of sale documentation, and as was the case with a lot transfers it 
would probably have been more prudent for Mr R to have remained with his OPS. 
It said, however, that its issue was in the problems it had had in trying to obtain information 
in order to ascertain whether Mr Rs pension had been reviewed as part of the regulators 
pension review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive firstly considered whether Mr R has referred his complaint to us within the relevant time 
limits. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the complaint was referred in time. 
As the investigator explained, Bradford and Bingley hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence that Mr R was mailed as part of the pension review. It has provided a copy of a 
letter to the administrators of the OPS. The letter was asking for information to enable the 
firm to decide whether the advice to Mr R fell within the scope of the review. So this indicates 
the firm was at least completing the initial stages of a review  deciding whether the advice 
fell within scope. 
However there is no further evidence of whether it wrote to Mr R inviting a review, whether a 
review was carried out or a loss calculation completed. And no evidence that a letter was 
sent to Mr R explaining the outcome of a review such that it might have alerted him that he 
had cause for complaint. The firm was required to keep records of a review. In all the 
circumstances, I dont think theres sufficient evidence that Mr R fell foul of the time limits as 
a result of matters relating to the pension review. 
Ive also considered whether there are other reasons why Mr R ought to have been alerted 
that he had cause for complaint more than three years before the complaint was made. As 
the investigator said, Mr R transferred his benefits away from the original personal pension 
provider some time ago. And has transferred it again since. The pension providers have only 
been able to provide limited information about what they sent to Mr R. 
However I note that when Mr R transferred pension providers in 2004 the illustration from the 
new provider referred to potential pensions at retirement date that were in excess of those  
set out in the information provided by the administrators of the OPS; and at the lowest projection rate. I accept that the figures provided by the administrators of the OPS showed 
what pension Mr R had accrued at the date he left that scheme. So these were subject to 
revaluation up until retirement date. However revaluation of deferred pension benefits is 
quite a complex exercise, and not something Id expect Mr R to have been able to do. I think 
its likely Mr R would have had the headline figures in mind. So I dont think the figures 
relating to the potential benefits from the personal pension ought to have been a red flag, or 
ought reasonably to have alerted Mr R that he had cause for complaint.
Overall, therefore, I think Mr R has referred his complaint within the relevant time limits, and 
that his complaint is one that I can consider.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear that Bradford and Bingley dispute that the advice to transfer was unlikely to 
have been suitable. I note Mr R was transferring around 12 years of pension service from 
the OPS. At the date of leaving the scheme this amounted to income of just over £2,000 and 
a lump sum of just over £6,000. Mr R left the OPS in 1989 in his early thirties. There was 
therefore a considerable period of time for the pension to revalue each year before 
retirement age. By retirement date it would have provided a significant pension. So there 
were material risks in transferring a significant and largely guaranteed pension that could be 
relied on to provide income throughout retirement. 
No persuasive evidence has been presented to suggest that Mr R was willing or in a position 
to take the risks presented by the transfer. For the reasons outlined by the investigator and 
above, I think it was more likely than not that the advice to transfer was unsuitable, and that 
Mr Rs complaint should succeed.
Putting things right
My conclusion is that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R 
as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I 
consider Mr R would have remained in the occupational scheme. 
Fair compensation
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published
Mr R didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt 
want to wait for any new guidance. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R.  
Bradford & Bingley Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the
date of the actual calculation. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
Bradford & Bingley Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, compensation is payable.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date
Bradford & Bingley Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of
90 days, that it takes Bradford & Bingley Limited to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Bradford & Bingley Limited to carry out a calculation in 
line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
If the redress calculations above demonstrate a loss, the compensation should if possible be
paid into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income
tax rate in retirement  which is presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deductionof 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Bradford & Bingley Limited deducts
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Bradford & 
Bingley Limited should give Mr R a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if
Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
I order Bradford & Bingley Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr R as I have set 
out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman