DRN-3538833
The complaint
Mr F and Ms L say that GE Money Home Lending Limited (who Ill call GE Money) unfairly 
declined their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a 
timeshare they were sold.
Mr F and Ms L have been represented by a professional representative but for convenience, 
I will often refer only to Mr F and Ms L in this decision. I mean no disrespect to Mr F and Ms 
Ls representative when doing so.
 
What happened
Before 6 April 2007 this Service didnt have jurisdiction to consider cases about consumer 
credit as the activity wasnt regulated by the Financial Services Authority (now the Financial 
Conduct Authority). So, whilst I can see Mr F and Ms L had other loans with GE that they 
took out before 6 April 2007, I cant consider complaints about those.
However, as Mr F and Ms L purchased a timeshare on 26 April 2007 (the Time of Sale) 
after this service had jurisdiction, I can consider that. They financed that deal through a fixed 
sum loan with GE Money. The finance agreement appears to have been settled but due to 
the passage of time neither party has been able to confirm when. GE Money couldnt find the 
loan account when the claim was raised in March 2019.
Mr F and Ms L raised their claims under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA. In 
summary they said:
The product was misrepresented.
They didnt get what they expected to under the agreement.
GE Money paid a commission to the supplier which wasnt declared to them.
They were pressured into the agreement.
The payments made were at a significantly higher rate of interest than that being 
provided by other lenders.
They also complained that GE Money hadnt checked they could afford the loan.
Mr F and Ms L initially raised their claim with GE Money, but they didnt provide a response 
letter until the complaint was referred to this Service. 
Our investigator explained that the time limits governing when a consumer needed to raise a 
claim by were set out in the Limitations Act 1980 (the LA). She didnt think Mr F and Ms L 
had made their claims in time, and she didnt think she had sufficient evidence to suggest 
the loan had been unaffordable for Mr F and Ms L.
Mr F and Ms L didnt agree, their representative explained that Section 32 of the LA provides 
that there may be postponement of the limitation period, in cases involving concealment. 
They said that the facts of this, and other similar cases referred to this Service, clearly 
supported the view that there was such deliberate concealment, on the part of the time share 
provider, both in respect of the purchase being unlawful, and also the fact that Club 
members could exit their membership, at any time, by simply giving 28 days Notice. They 
referred to the decision of the Court of Appeal in Canada Square Operations Ltd v Potter 
[2021] EWCA that they said supported their claim.
The complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F and Ms L, but I think their claims under the CCA have been 
made too late and I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest the finance was 
unaffordable for them.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take 
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards; 
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the 
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an 
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I 
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the 
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made 
when I set out my final decision.
The Limitation Act 1980 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum 
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of 
the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a 
credit agreement has the same right to make a claim against the credit provider as against 
the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to the claim under section 140A of the CCA as the 
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the broker will be deemed to be the responsibility of the 
lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair 
relationship exists between the consumers and GE Money.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr F and Ms L may have under sections 75 
or 140A, but Im required to take them into account when deciding whether GE Money were 
reasonable to reject Mr F and Ms Ls claims.
A claim under section 75 for misrepresentation against GE Money had to be made within six 
years of when Mr F and Ms L had everything they needed to make such a claim. And in this 
complaint, I think that was when they purchased the timeshare at the Time of Sale (April 
2007). After all, they say that they entered into the agreement to purchase the timeshare 
because of misrepresentations. And as the upshot of the claim was that they would not have 
made the purchase but for the misrepresentations at the Time of Sale, it was at that time that 
they suffered a loss because they ended up borrowing money from GE Money. So, Mr F and Ms L had until April 2013 to raise a section 75 claim with GE Money. As they didnt do so 
until January 2019, and as I cant see a reason why the limitation period is likely to be 
postponed in keeping with the LA, I think its likely a court would consider their section 75 
claim to be time barred. That would give GE Money a complete defence to it.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that, when 
considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit 
agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. Here the 
limitation period is six years. That is because the claim Mr F and Ms L wish to make is for 
repayment of sums they have paid, which is an action for sums recoverable under statute, to 
which s.9 LA applies. We dont know for sure when the credit agreement ended as GE 
couldnt find the loan account when the claim was raised in January 2019. From what we 
know about how long businesses such as GE Money normally keep records, I think its likely 
that the account had been closed more than six years prior to when the claim was raised. 
So, I think Mr F and Ms L brought their claim too late  which, in my view, is likely to give GE 
Money a complete defence to it.
Whilst Mr F and Ms L say they werent aware they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later, the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such 
as this, start to run from the date of loss. So, I think the claim was still raised too late.
Section 32 of the LA 
S32 relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, mistake, or concealment
are found (or could with reasonable diligence have been discovered). 
To conclude that there had been deliberate concealment under Section 32(1)(b) of the
LA, there doesnt have to have been a free-standing contractual, tortious, or fiduciary duty
to disclose a fact. It is sufficient if the non-disclosure was part of an unfair credit-debtor
relationship as this was a breach of a relevant duty. That issue was discussed in Canada 
Square Operations Ltd v Potter [2021] that Mr F and Ms Ls representatives have directed 
me to. A purchaser doesnt have to show that the Supplier knew that concealment gave rise 
to a cause of action. Its enough that the concealment was unconscionable  which means 
that the Supplier concealed something and was reckless as to whether it had committed an 
actionable wrong.
Im not persuaded that Mr F and Ms L have provided clear evidence of deliberate 
concealment in their case, or that there is reason to believe, in my opinion, that other similar 
cases referred to this Service, clearly support the view that there was such deliberate 
concealment. 
Its possible that the contractual paperwork accompanying Mr F and Ms Ls purchase 
agreement was lengthy and difficult to understand in places. Its also possible that the 
Suppliers disclosure at the Time of Sale wasnt entirely compliant with the relevant rules and 
requirements at that time. But that isnt the same as saying the Supplier deliberately withheld 
information from Mr F and Ms L in a way that engages Section 32(1)(b) of the LA. And while 
Mr F and Ms Ls representatives have made a number of allegations in that regard, none of 
them are reliably corroborated by any supporting evidence. So, based on the limited 
information Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Section 32(1)(b) is likely to be engaged for the 
relevant reasons Ms F and Ms Ls representatives have provided and I dont think a court 
would find there was a reason to extend the limitation period.
Unaffordable lendingMr F and Ms L say that GE Money were in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate 
credit assessment to determine whether they could afford to repay the loan. They say they 
had strict obligations to complete a creditworthiness check under the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and failed to undertake those 
obligations. 
However, when GE Money lent to Mr F and Ms L, CONC didnt apply to lending of the kind in 
question (the FCA began its regulation of consumer credit and issued CONC on 1 April 
2014) So, it isnt relevant here. Whats more, when considering a complaint about 
unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether the borrowing was likely to prove 
unaffordable in practice and whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings 
on the part of the lender. So even if I was persuaded that GE Money did not do appropriate 
checks (and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things 
right, I would need to see that the credit granted by GE Money was likely to be unaffordable 
and that Mr F and/or Ms L suffered a loss as a result. As theres little evidence that they 
would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay what they were lent by GE Money, Im not 
persuaded it was unaffordable for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman