DRN-3440132
The complaint
Mr P complains that ETU Forsikring A/S applied a 20% co-insurance payment to his pet 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr P has a lifetime pet insurance policy for his dog, insured by ETU. In November 2021 
ETU received a claim for £163.57 for his dogs ongoing treatment for heart failure from 
13 September to 21 October 2021. ETU accepted the claim and paid a settlement of 
£146.75. It had deducted £16.82 for the 20% co-insurance payment which ETU said applied 
under the policy terms as Mr Ps dog had turned seven years old on 1 October 2021.
Mr P is unhappy ETU applied the co-insurance. He believes the policy wording means that 
as his dog was six when he first claimed for his dogs heart failure the 20% co-insurance 
payment shouldnt apply to ongoing claims for the same condition. He wants ETU not to 
apply the co-insurance for continuing claims for that condition. Mr P accepts that for future 
unrelated claims the 20% co-insurance would apply.
Our investigator said ETU had fairly deducted the co-insurance from the claim.
Mr P disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said the policy 
definition of co-insurance referred to the claim and the use of the word 'the' was specific to 
one unique event - the date when the claim was first reported - which was when his dog was 
six years old. Also any ambiguity in the policy wording should be interpreted in the 
policyholders favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether ETU acted in fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. Ill explain 
why.
The policy says:
VETERINARY FEES
What You Are Not Covered For:
2. The Co-insurance amount of 20% where Your Pet is 7 years of age or older.
The policy defines co-insurance as:
The amount You are required to pay towards the costs of the Veterinary Fees where 
Your Pet is aged 7 years or older at the time of the claim. The Excess amounts 
applicable are as follows:
7 Years or older: 20% will be deducted from the claims settlement after the Excess;
12 Years or older: 25% will be deducted from the claims settlement after the Excess.
The policy certificate says:
Co-Insurance:
The amount You are required to pay towards the costs of the Veterinary Fees where 
Your Pet is aged 7 years or older at the time of the claim as below:
7 Years or older: 20% will be deducted from the claims settlement after the Excess
So I think the policy documentation is clear that the co-insurance payment will apply to 
claims once Mr Ps dog is seven years old.
Mr Ps dog was first treated for heart failure in February 2021 and the condition first claimed 
for in March 2021, when his dog was six years old. Ive read and considered all of Mr Ps 
detailed comments as to why he thinks the policy wording means any subsequent claim for 
the same condition shouldnt attract the co-insurance, but I dont agree with him. 
Continuation claims for the same condition are still claims. I dont think its reasonable to 
read the claim in the policy definition of co-insurance as meaning only the first claim for a 
condition. Once Mr Ps dog is seven years old under the policy terms ETU can fairly apply 
the co-insurance for the claim Mr P makes, whether or not the claim is for a continuing 
condition. 
Generally we say that any ambiguity in the policy wording should be interpreted in the 
policyholders favour, but I dont there is ambiguity is this policy wording.
Mr P made the claim in November 2021 when his dog had reached seven years old. For the 
above reasons I think ETU acted within the policy terms and conditions, and fairly and 
reasonably, in applying the 20% co-insurance to the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman