DRN-4133240
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Santander Consumer (UK) plc T/A Volvo Car Financial 
Services (SCUK) dealt with a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement with it. 
What happened
Mr M acquired a car under a four-year conditional sale agreement with SCUK in September 
2020. The cash price of the car was £25,595. Monthly repayments were around £380 and 
there was a final payment of around £8,000. 
Mr Ms daughter used the car, and I understand was the registered keeper. She says she 
was the victim of a crime because her ex-partner took the car thatd been acquired under the 
SCUK agreement without permission. The car was in an accident, and it was seized by the 
police. SCUKs notes say it received an alert on 5 July 2022 that the car had been seized for 
no insurance/driving licence, and that the car was damaged. SCUK arranged to collect the 
car. SCUK spoke to Mr M in July 2022 and its notes say his daughter was going to deal with 
things including the insurance. The notes also say SCUK told Mr M to arrange for the 
insurance company to speak with it direct. 
Mr Ms daughter (and another representative) spoke to SCUK who said it was happy to 
release the car to an insurance company. It asked for authorisation because it wanted the 
repairs done properly, and that it held full interest in the car. It looks like Mr M was unhappy 
SCUK was asking for details of his insurance because he acquired the car for his daughter 
to use. So SCUK asked for his daughters insurance information and driving licence. 
SCUKs notes say Mr Ms daughter told it the car had been stolen and involved in a crime. 
They go on to say no claim was made through insurance because the policy wasnt in her 
name  although she says her ex-partner was insured. It looks like SCUK asked Mr Ms 
daughter to arrange for Mr M to call it to discuss options. 
Towards the end of July 2022 SCUK said Mr M had breached the agreement. It referred to 
terms 4.4 and 4.5 of the conditional sale agreement that says: 
4.4 You will not use or let anyone use the goods illegally. You will not let
anyone obtain any rights (including liens) over the goods or let anyone
take or threaten to take them to pay any debt that you owe. You will
keep the goods in your possession and under your control and will not
sell, transfer, mortgage, lend or give the goods to anyone.
4.5 You will not allow the goods to be seized or removed by the police
under a statutory power, this will be treated as a breach of the
agreement. In the event that the goods are seized or removed we may
take the goods into safe custody.
SCUK said it wouldnt release the car unless it was to an insurance company, or it received 
everything due under the agreement. It pointed out Mr M had the right to voluntary terminate 
the agreement or it could sell the car on his behalf. SCUK also explained a non-remedial 
default notice had already been issued asking for full payment, and it wouldnt give the car 
back direct to Mr M or his representatives to arrange repairs 
SCUK received a letter from the police setting out Mr Ms daughters ex-partner had taken 
the car without permission. There was some back and forth about SCUK obtaining details of 
the insurance. It looks like things reached a stalemate. Mr Ms daughter complained and 
SCUK issued a final response saying it had acted fairly and that it would be willing to release 
the car to an insurance company to make sure the repairs were done properly. 
Mr M continued to pay towards the agreement, and he referred a complaint to our service to 
consider. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think there were grounds to direct SCUK to take 
action. She said she couldnt see Mr M or his daughter were insured to drive the car at the 
time of the accident. And that this was a requirement under the conditional sale agreement. 
She noted other breached terms of the agreement that SCUK had highlighted. And she said 
she could understand SCUKs reluctance to return the car  that belongs to it  without 
knowing the car would be assessed and repaired properly. She noted Mr Ms daughter 
hadnt reported the car stolen. She also said she thought SCUK had treated Mr M fairly and 
that if the matter couldnt be resolved with Mr Ms daughters ex-partners insurer, other 
options should be explored to end the agreement. 
Mr Ms daughter didnt agree. She said she didnt report the car stolen because she was the 
victim of domestic violence. She said the car was insured at the time of the accident (by her 
ex-partner) and that there was a claim put in against the other party involved. She said she 
was insured up until the end of June 2022 and that her partner took out a policy after that. 
Rather than going back to SCUK to discuss things, she wanted all options looked at. 
As things couldnt be resolved the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im sorry to hear about what Mr M and his daughter have been through. It 
cant have been easy. And I want to thank Mr M for taking the time to bring his complaint to 
our service. 
I also want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr M and SCUK that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr M acquired the car under a regulated conditional sale agreement, and our service is able 
to deal with complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
There are certain parts of the complaint that dont seem to be in dispute. Its not in dispute 
the police seized the car after it was taken from Mr Ms daughter by her ex-partner without 
permission and that it was in an accident. Terms 4.4 and 4.5 that Ive mentioned above refer 
to not allowing the car to be used by someone illegally, losing possession of it, or allowing it 
to be seized. It looks like the arrangement was for Mr Ms daughter to use the car, even 
though Mr M was SCUKs customer. SCUK doesnt seem to have an issue with this, in this case. I dont think Mr M or his daughter allowed the car to be taken. But its not in dispute 
they werent in possession of the car. 
Ive thought about the circumstances here. Clearly, SCUK would want either Mr M or his 
daughter to be insured on the car. Thats part of the terms of the agreement. So when it 
found out the car had been in an accident and, at that point, neither Mr M nor his daughter 
were insured I think its reasonable it would have been very concerned. And it may have had 
strong grounds to terminate the agreement. 
When SCUK found out the car had been seized after the accident it did what Id expect by 
arranging recovery. And once it had authority to speak to Mr Ms daughter and found out the 
car had been stolen it asked if an insurance claim had been put through which is also what 
Id expect.
It wasnt clear if Mr Ms daughter or her ex-partner were insured on the car when SCUK 
initially spoke to her. SCUK had concerns that if the car had been involved in a crime it might 
not be covered under a policy. SCUKs notes indicate it said Mr Ms daughter could find this 
out, which seems fair. And it also said it would go through the options with Mr M which also 
seems reasonable. 
I think SCUK tried to work with Mr M and his daughter to help resolve things. It held off from 
terminating the agreement and it offered to work with the insurance company. I think that 
was fair of it. 
The letter from the police says Mr Ms daughter was the victim of a crime on 5 June 2022. 
Ms Ms daughter said the car was stolen in June, so I think this is what that refers to. Mr Ms 
daughter said she reported the car stolen and had cancelled her insurance because she 
wasnt the one driving. Shes told our service she was insured up until the end of June 2022 
and that her ex-partner took out a policy in his name after that. 
Its not clear why Ms Ms daughter didnt contact SCUK or her insurer when the car was 
stolen. But shes mentioned she was the victim of domestic violence which might explain 
why she didnt. As I explained above, Im very sorry to hear that. But Im considering how 
SCUK have acted. I dont think its unreasonable for SCUK to have expected an insurance 
claim to be raised as it would have reasonably thought either Mr M or Mr Ms daughter were 
insured when the car was stolen. And Mr Ms daughters submissions indicate she was 
insured at that point up until the end of June.
However, what doesnt seem to be in dispute is that neither Mr M nor his daughter were 
insured on the car from July 2022. And this is a breach of the terms of the agreement. Its 
also curious the notification SCUK received was that the car was seized for no 
insurance/driving licence. Taking this into account, along with the other circumstances 
around it being involved in an accident, being seized, and having been stolen but with no 
notification being made to SCUK, I can understand why it wasnt willing to simply return the 
car to Mr M. 
SCUK said it would speak to an insurance company because it wanted to make sure the 
repairs would be carried out properly. Moreover, SCUK has said it doesnt know the extent of 
the damage to the car. The car could be a write-off or may have significant damage. So I can 
understand why it may have felt it was prudent for an insurance company to be involved in 
determining whats wrong. As the owners of the car and in light of the circumstances I dont 
think thats unfair. It also sought to let Mr M know about the other options he had such as 
voluntary termination and surrender. Which I also find to be fair.I agree with our investigator that its not fair Mr M is left in limbo. It seems unlikely at this 
stage that Mr M or his daughter are going to be able to resolve things via the third-party 
insurance company. Perhaps Mr Ms daughter can speak to her own insurer about the car 
being stolen, as this seems to have happened while she was covered. Thats ultimately up to 
her. But Im not going to direct SCUK to terminate the agreement because that could put 
Mr M in a worse position and cause detriment. 
SCUK was put in a difficult position  it wanted to give Mr M enough breathing space to sort 
things out. But that cant go on forever. So I will echo what our investigator has said and 
recommend Mr M, or his daughter, speak to SCUK (or the insurer) to discuss a way forward. 
As Ive said above, it looks like Mr Ms daughter may be able to raise a claim because the 
car was stolen when she had cover. Alternatively, with the agreement still being active Mr M 
has the right to voluntary terminate the agreement. SCUK has also indicated it would allow 
him to surrender the car. And Mr M can still settle the agreement to have the car returned. 
SCUK will be able to give Mr M more details about these options if he wishes. 
In all the circumstances, given the car was stolen and seized; the theft was not reported to 
SCUK; it seems as though Mr Ms daughter had the option to put in a claim to her insurance 
company; the car wasnt insured by Mr M or his daughter when it was in an accident; and we 
dont know the extent of the damage, I dont find I have the grounds to direct SCUK to return 
the car to Mr M at this stage. So, while I know itll come as a disappointment, Im not going to 
be making any directions. Ill remind SCUK to treat Mr M with forbearance and due 
consideration if theres any financial difficulties. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) plc T/A Volvo Car Financial Services has 
dealt with things fairly and I make no directions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman