DRN-3559657
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc irresponsibly lent to her 
by increasing her credit limit on a credit card.
What happened
Ms A opened a credit card account with Marks & Spencer in February 2020. Her credit limit 
was initially £1,000. In March 2021 her credit limit was increased to £2,000.
 
Ms A says that Marks & Spencer shouldnt have increased her limit in March 2021. She says 
she was struggling to meet her repayments on all her credit. She says if Marks & Spencer 
had done adequate checks on her situation it would have seen that she wouldnt be able to 
repay her balance in a reasonable length of time. 
Marks & Spencer says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Ms A and that it did all the necessary 
checks before it lent to Ms A  and when it increased her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought that Ms As complaint about the credit limit increase in March 2021 
should be upheld. They thought that given Ms As income and expenditure it was likely that 
she didnt have the disposable income available to sustainably afford the additional 
borrowing.
 
Our adjudicator said that Marks & Spencer should not have allowed Ms A further credit and 
thought that any interest and charges applied over her original £1,000 limit should be 
removed and her account re-worked.
 
Marks & Spencer disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no 
indications of any financial strain.
As Marks & Spencer disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Ms As complaint.
Marks & Spencer needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms 
A could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Ms As income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. And Ms A hasnt complained about the initial lending decision.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Marks & Spencer should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms A. These factors 
include things like understanding Ms As income, the total amount Ms A borrowed, and the 
length of time Ms A had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
When Ms A requested an increase in her credit limit Marks & Spencer told us that it 
conducted a credit check. Marks & Spencer told us there were no signs of financial 
difficulties based on the checks it did but hasnt been able to provide a copy of those checks.
Ms A has been able to provide a copy of her credit report from that time and it shows she 
had significant credit commitments. Our adjudicator thought that it showed she owed a 
minimum of £893 to other creditors. I think its likely it was much higher than that because I 
can see from other records that she was making significant repayments to lenders on a 
monthly basis and she owed Marks and Spencer £700 alone. I think its likely this 
information would have appeared on the credit check Marks and Spencer says it did and so I 
think it would have been proportionate for it to have got a more thorough understanding of 
Ms As financial circumstances before increasing her limit. I think it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate to establish her income and committed expenditure.
Ms A has supplied this service with bank statements to assist with understanding what 
Marks & Spencer might have seen at the time. In March 2021 bank statements that Ms A 
supplied show that her repayments on loans were in the region of £760 a month. This was 
without taking into account other essential outgoings. Those same bank statements show 
that her income was around £1,000 per month net, taking into account wages and child 
benefit. Debt repayments took up a significant proportion of her income. Our adjudicator 
noted that Ms As average committed expenditure was in excess of her income. I think this 
demonstrates that Ms A didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably afford the 
additional borrowing. 
I think Ms A lost out as a result of Marks & Spencers decision. I dont think Marks & Spencer 
should have increased her credit limit.
Putting things right
As I dont think Marks & Spencer should have increased Ms As credit limit from £1,000, I 
dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded 
that limit. However, Ms A has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I 
think she should pay this back. Therefore, Marks & Spencer should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £1,000.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms A along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Marks & Spencer should also remove all adverse information 
recorded after 22 March 2021 regarding this account from Ms As credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,000, Marks & Spencer 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Ms A for the remaining amount. Once Ms A has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after 22 March 2021 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
If Marks & Spencer has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy 
back the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out 
above is carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Marks & Spencer to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Ms A a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Ms As complaint about her credit limit increase and direct Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman