DRN-3391210
The complaint
Miss P complains that Santander UK plc wont refund to her the deposit that she paid for a 
holiday. 
What happened
Miss P used her Santander debit card in September 2019 to pay a deposit of £600 for a 
holiday that she was going to take, with others, in August 2020. The total cost of the holiday 
was £2,394 and the balance was due in June 2020 but the holiday company stopped trading 
in May 2020. Miss P contacted Santander about her deposit but it says that she hadnt 
provided her booking confirmation despite being asked to do so - so her claim was closed. 
Miss P complained to Santander in April 2021 but it said that it had correctly closed her claim 
as she hadnt provided it with the requested paperwork or documentation as evidence so it 
couldnt proceed to dispute or charge her claim back. Miss P wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Santander had followed the correct process before requesting the chargeback and she was 
comfortable that it had taken reasonable steps to obtain the required information from Miss P 
before closing the claim. She said that the information needed was made clear and that 
sufficient reminders and deadlines were provided to Miss P.
Miss P has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that shes £600 out of pocket and she sent all the paperwork that she had, which 
included the booking reference number, to Santander. She says that she didnt receive the 
letters from Santander which will be clear from the phone calls that she made to it (and she 
said that shed provide evidence of those calls but hasnt done so). She says that it would be 
stupid to not send the booking form and wouldn't make any sense. She also says that a 
relative has received a refund of their deposit from another bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made; 
Miss P contacted Santander about her deposit payment after the holiday company 
had stopped trading and Santander sent her an information request in May 2020;
she returned a signed declaration to Santander in June 2020 and she provided 
documents to support her claim  but the documents didnt include the booking 
confirmation;
Santander sent a letter to Miss P in August 2020 in which it said that it needed a bit 
more information so it could look into her claim and asked her to provide the copy of 
booking confirmation and detailed information about purchased service  and she 
sent back another signed declaration but didnt provide the booking confirmation;
it sent her another letter in September 2020 in which it said that it needed a bit more 
information so it could look into her claim and asked her to provide the copy of your 
booking confirmation [and] details of how you have tried to resolve with the merchant 
(please send copies of any correspondence);
Santander says that Miss P hadnt provided the booking confirmation by October 
2020 when the time period in which a chargeback claim could be made had ended so 
it closed her claim;
Miss P says that she didnt receive those letters but they were correctly addressed to 
her and she returned signed declarations to Santander so I consider it to be more 
likely than not that she received at least some of those letters;
as Miss P hadnt provided the booking confirmation, I consider that Santander acted 
fairly and reasonably by not making a chargeback claim and then closing the claim 
and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to expect it to have made 
the chargeback claim without the information that it had requested;
Im not persuaded that Miss P has provided enough evidence to show that she 
provided the booking confirmation to Santander or that theres enough evidence to 
show that Santander has acted incorrectly in these circumstances; 
Miss P says that a relative has received a refund of the deposit that they made for 
the holiday from their bank  but that was a decision for that bank to make and the 
actions of that bank dont show that Santander has acted incorrectly in connection 
with Miss Ps claim; and
I sympathise with Miss P for the loss that shes suffered, but I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable for me to require Santander to refund to her the deposit that she 
paid for the holiday, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman