DRN-1215250
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K were sold the policy when they took out a loan in 1998. They added the cost of 
the PPI onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy. It covered 
Mr K in case he was off sick or out of work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having done that, I have not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ks credit agreement described the PPI as optional and set out its costs 
separately to the costs of the loan itself  it wasnt part and parcel of the loan. Mr and Mrs K 
agreed to the loan with PPI, and Ive not seen any indication that they were told they had to 
have PPI, nor have I seen any wider problems with Nationwides sales process from the 
time. So I think its most likely that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs K aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs K, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs K clear information about the PPI so they could 
decide for themselves if it was right for them.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly  including the premium, the interest payable on 
the premium, and the total cost. So it wouldve been clear how much the PPI would cost if 
Mr and Mrs K kept the policy for its full term.
Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr K made a successful claim, Mr and 
Mrs K couldve got back quite a bit more than they paid for it. And Mr K doesnt seem to 
have had any alternative cover. So it looks like the policy couldve been useful.
If Mr and Mrs K cancelled the policy early, they wouldve got a proportional refund  so the 
policy was flexible.Lastly, its possible that Nationwide didnt point out all of the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But Mr K doesnt appear to have been significantly affected by any of those things. 
While he was self-employed, he was still covered and shouldnt have found it significantly 
harder to claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman