DRN-2162321
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time of sale as 
Alliance and Leicester) mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in June 2003. Mr C applied 
for the policy, to cover a mortgage. The policy covered him against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment. The mortgage ended in December 2007.
Mr C says the sales documentation shows that he initially declined PPI and then only after it 
was strongly recommended in writing and verbally by Santander was it added. He says this 
shows that Santander pushed the sale on him. He thinks Santander mis-sold the policy to 
him.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Here are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mr C was given a choice to have the MPPI policy. 
Mr C says he initially indicated on the mortgage application form that he didnt want 
MPPI and then had it pushed on him so he changed it and ticked that he did want it. So I 
looked into this. I have been able to see the mortgage application, a separate MPPI 
application form, along with looking at what Mr C has said about the sale. 
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr C and Santander. Mr C says the policy 
was pushed onto him but hasnt provided too much detail about this. Its completely 
understandable that Mr Cs recollections are not detailed as the sale took place many 
years ago. And because of this and considering what I have seen in the sales 
documentation, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say 
Santander didnt explain that PPI was an optional feature. 
I can see that Mr C has initially ticked that he didnt want MPPI but has crossed this out 
and ticked that he did. He has also initialled next to this and also completed and signed a 
separate application for the insurance. After seeing that he has signed next to his 
correction, signed the mortgage application and a separate application for MPPI, I think 
its more likely he changed his mind and decided to go ahead with the insurance.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr C or not 
during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure the policy 
was suitable for him. On looking at the information provided, I think advice was given.
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr C.
I say this after considering Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale. Because, although 
Mr C says he had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay he could have used, the 
MPPI policy would have paid out if he was made unemployed or if he was sick in 
addition to his means. Having the policy in place would mean Mr C could use any 
provisions he may have had to cover other expenses. I dont think his means are 
sufficient for me reasonably to say that he wouldnt have had a need for the policy. 
I dont think Mr C was limited from claiming benefit when he needed to, at least not 
enough that it would have made the policy unsuitable for him. It is unlikely Mr C needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations and if he had 
received clear information on these terms, I dont think it would have put him off.
 
Finally, I cant be sure that the costs of the policy were disclosed in a clear way, but even 
if Santander did, I dont think Mr C would have done anything differently for the same 
reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable.
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman