DRN-4012810
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the decision made by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) following a 
claim under her home emergency cover. 
Aviva are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of 
company H. As Aviva have accepted they are accountable for the actions of company H, in 
my decision, any reference Aviva includes the actions of company H.
What happened
Miss B took out home emergency cover with Aviva. 
In 2018 Miss B reported a leak. Aviva sent an engineer to investigate but didnt take any 
further action.
 
In 2021 Miss B contacted Aviva saying there was still an issue with a leak that remained 
unresolved. Aviva instructed company B to investigate the cause of damage. Company Bs 
report recorded The damage does appear to have been caused due to an ongoing leak 
which allegedly was caused by [company H].
 
On 3 August 2021 Aviva sent Miss B a final response letter saying:
I understand that you were unhappy with your recent claims experience as we failed 
to correctly diagnose the issue which caused a great amount of damage to your 
property. Our engineers also failed you as they did not investigate further when they 
attended in 2018.
I will be reimbursing you for the two private jobs you had completed for £825 as well 
as offer you the cash settlement of £3718.77. You have not accepted nor declined 
this offer as you were unsure.
 
As discussed with you today, if for any reason you arrange for a private company to 
rectify the damage and they quote you higher than the offer given, I would need a 
detailed report of the extra costs involved to be able to assess whether we would pay 
out the higher amount. Again, this cannot be guaranteed until the event happens.
 
Miss B has advised that she found a contractor (contractor A) to complete the required repair 
work. Miss B has explained the repairs took approximately three weeks, at a cost of £3,500. 
Miss B has explained she no longer has an invoice for these repairs. 
In early 2022 Miss B noticed clear spots of water in kitchen and cupboards. Miss B has 
explained she contacted her insurer for advice. She has explained her insurer advised 
excavate property to see if its under the ground. There could be ground water causing the 
leak. Miss B asked a local builder (builder M) to come and inspect the damage, and 
complete excavation work. Miss B has also explained she was having work done to her 
property. While completing work on Miss Bs property, builder M found a leak.
In May 2022 Miss B renewed her home emergency cover with Aviva. At the same time she 
contacted Aviva to report the leak found by builder M. The case notes recorded pipe inside 
boundary leaking through the kitchen tiles. An engineer instructed by Aviva attended to Miss 
Bs property and fixed the leak. The completion job notes recorded Customer had leak on 
lead pipe cut out leak stopped leak customer happy. 
Miss B complained to Aviva about the way her claim had been dealt with in August 2021. 
Miss B said that the cause of the leak had not properly been identified at the time. Miss B 
provided Aviva with an invoice for £7,630 saying that shed had to pay this amount to 
complete repairs following the leak that was repaired in May 2022. Miss B said this leak 
wouldve been evident in August 2021 and was missed by Aviva during their investigation. 
Aviva responded to Miss Bs complaint on 17 November 2022 saying the leak repaired in 
May 2022 was unrelated to any previous leaks investigated by Aviva. So they didnt offer 
anything in settlement of Miss Bs complaint.  
Miss B was unhappy with this response, and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that because Miss B hadnt referred her complaint about the leak in 
2021 to the Financial Ombudsman Service on time, we wouldnt be able to look at that part 
of Miss Bs complaint. 
During our investigation Aviva provided additional comments from the engineer that attended 
to Miss Bs property in May 2022 to repair the leak. The engineer explained that:
- The pipe had been hit when doing the extension.  
- The leak was on the external water supply pipe.  
- The engineer did not carry out any excavation work, the pipe was already exposed 
and leaking when he attended. When he attended the property the pipe was already 
exposed outside. Therefore, there would have been no need for him to go inside the 
property. 
The investigator found that Aviva had acted reasonably in repairing the leak in May 2022 in 
line with Miss Bs policy. The investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to say the leak 
in 2022 was linked to the leak that was found in 2021, so it was reasonable that Aviva 
refused to pay these additional costs. Miss B rejected these findings saying that she has 
provided numerous photos evidencing the damage inside her property, and the source of 
this leak shouldve been found by Aviva during their investigation in 2021. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Complaint about work carried out in 2021The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service say that a complaint must be brought to us 
within six months of the date a final response was issued. If a complaint is brought more 
than six months after a final response, we cannot consider it  unless there are exceptional 
circumstances which explain why it wasnt made in time, or unless Aviva consents to us 
looking at an out of time complaint (which in this case it doesnt).
Miss B says shes unhappy with the service provided by Aviva in 2021. Miss B says Aviva 
failed to correctly investigate and repair a leak (which was discovered by her builder in 2022) 
when they attended to her property in 2021. 
Having reviewed Avivas letter of 3 August 2021, I am satisfied that it was appropriately 
formatted to qualify as a final response providing referral rights to this Service. Given the 
date of this final response letter, Miss B had until 3 February 2022 to refer her complaint to 
this Service. Aviva have made it clear that they do not consent to this Service considering 
the complaint outside of these timescales.
Miss Bs referral of her complaint on 23 November 2022 is beyond this deadline, and 
therefore falls outside to the six-month window she had to bring the complaint to this 
Service. As such, I have considered whether any exceptional circumstances apply in this 
case that may have prevented Miss B from referring her complaint in time.
Miss B has said in early 2022 she noticed clear spots of water in kitchen and cupboards. 
Miss B has explained she contacted her insurer for advice. 
It seems Miss B may have misunderstood the timescales here. She has explained that she 
wanted to wait and see whether the problem developed, and then contacted her insurer for 
advice. However, Miss Bs explanation doesnt satisfy me that there were exceptional 
circumstances for why she was unable to bring her complaint in time. So, Im not persuaded 
that exceptional circumstances apply in this case.
Im therefore satisfied that Miss B referred the August 2021 final response to us out of time, 
and that there are no exceptional circumstances which explain why she didnt refer it in time.
Miss B did refer the November 2022 final response in time. And so we can consider the 
matters covered in that final response. As the complaints are linked, although my decision 
does not provide any determination about events in 2021, I have referred to these events 
(where relevant) when reaching my decision on Miss Bs complaint about events in 2022. 
Leak repaired by Aviva in May 2022
I appreciate the crux of Miss Bs complaint is that she feels that the leak repaired in May 
2022 was missed by Aviva when investigating similar problems in her property in 2021. But 
Miss B had sufficient time to contact Aviva about the issues she noticed hadnt been fully 
resolved after Aviva agreed to settle her claim in August 2021. Miss B has also had other 
tradespeople work on her property since that date. Aviva were contacted in May 2022. But 
because of the time that has passed we cant look at what Aviva shouldve done in 2021 for 
the reasons Ive already explained. 
I have considered whether Aviva have acted reasonably in their decision not to pay for the 
repairs claimed for by Miss B in 2022. In considering this, Im persuaded that the actions 
taken by Aviva in 2022 have been reasonable and in line with Miss Bs policy terms, and 
what wed expect for a claim of this type.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive considered the evidence to determine whether Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Miss Bs claim in 2022.   
Miss Bs policy with Aviva is designed to cover home emergencies. We wouldnt expect a 
policy of this type to cover any damage caused to a property (internal or external) by an 
escape of water, such as what Miss B has described she experienced in 2022. 
I can see that Avivas engineer that attended in May 2022 repaired the leak that he found on 
the external water supply pipe. Ive looked at the terms of Miss Bs home emergency cover 
and Im satisfied that the work completed was in line with the terms of Miss Bs policy. Miss 
B has also confirmed that since the leak was repaired in May 2022, she hasnt experienced 
any further escape of water issues in her property. 
Miss B has expressed disappointment with the general handling of her claim, including the 
lack of proper communication with her, and rejection of her evidence showing the damage to 
her property. Ive considered Miss Bs comments. But I dont think Aviva have mishandled 
Miss Bs claim in the way that she has described. 
Miss Bs policy was designed to provide home emergency cover. By attending to Miss Bs 
property within a reasonable time, and fixing the leak, Aviva have done what they were 
supposed to do, in line with the terms of Miss Bs policy. So I think the service provided here 
was reasonable.
Aviva told Miss B that they couldnt link the leak identified in May 2022 with anything that had 
been investigated previously. I think this decision, although strongly disputed by Miss B, was 
fair. Ive taken into consideration the work carried out by the engineer, and the source of the 
leak in May 2022. Ive also considered the time passed since Aviva investigated problems in 
Miss Bs home in July 2021, before agreeing to award settlement in August 2021. Miss B 
has also explained how shes had other tradespeople work on her property. 
I understand Miss B wanted to wait and see how the problem with the water shed first 
noticed in her kitchen would develop. The photos provided by Miss B of the damage caused 
internally to her property indicate that the issues wouldve likely been present for some time. 
I appreciate Miss B has explained she didnt contact Aviva sooner as she was told by her 
insurer to complete an excavation process herself. But I dont think this makes Aviva 
responsible for paying for the damage to Miss Bs property.
Given the time passed, the engineers comments about the source of the leak, and the 
settlement offered to Miss B in 2021, I think Avivas response to Miss Bs claim in 2022 was 
reasonable. 
I appreciate Miss Bs disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Miss B 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But I cant ask Aviva to pay for the 
damage to Miss Bs property, given the terms of her policy, what it was designed to cover, 
and the repairs completed by the engineer to resolve the leak in May 2022. So I wont be 
asking Aviva to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman