DRN-3099144
The complaint
Mr H complains about Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) cancelling his commercial motor 
insurance policy as they would no longer insure a vehicle of his type. Mr H is unhappy at the 
compensation offered by Zenith and the costs of dealing with the cancellation.
What happened
Mr H had a motor insurance policy with Zenith for his commercial vehicle, which he renewed 
in February 2020. In November 2020 Zenith contacted him to say that they would no longer 
cover a vehicle of his type, so they were cancelling his policy. Zenith gave the seven days 
notice of cancellation required under the policy and confirmed that they would record a full 
years no claims bonus (NCD) for the period that his policy was in place. Zenith also 
confirmed that the breakdown cover he had taken out alongside his vehicle insurance would 
also be cancelled. Zenith told Mr H that he would be refunded £117 for the unused period of 
cover from the date of cancellation. Mr H arranged alternative cover with another insurer.
 
Mr H was unhappy at his policy being cancelled, the information he was given about the 
cancellation and the time he had to spend arranging alternative cover (at higher cost). Mr H 
complained to Zenith. Zenith said they were satisfied with the decision to cancel Mr Hs 
policy but acknowledged they hadnt provided the standard of service he should expect. 
Zenith offered to waive the cancellation fee (£70) for the policy and a further £20 in 
compensation. Mr H rejected Zeniths offer, stating that he felt that they should reimburse 
him for the unused period of cover (£117), the higher premium for his new policy (£70), the 
cost of phone calls contacting Zenith and arranging alternative cover (£25) and for the time 
he had spent (£120), a total of £332. Zenith declined to change their offer.
 
Mr H then complained to this service. He was unhappy at the way that Zenith had cancelled 
his policy, and that they hadnt properly compensated him for the various costs he had 
incurred in dealing with the cancellation and arranging alternative cover.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. She concluded that Zenith hadnt acted fairly in 
cancelling Mr Hs policy and hadnt acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
She thought that, while Zenith had taken a decision on commercial grounds to no longer 
insure a vehicle of Mr Hs type, it wasnt fair to cancel his policy three months before it was 
due to expire. The investigator thought that Zenith should pay Mr H £100 in compensation.
 
Zenith accepted the investigators recommendation of £100 compensation, but Mr H didnt 
and requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
 
In my findings I agreed with the investigators conclusions that Zenith hadnt acted fairly 
when they cancelled Mr Hs policy three months before it was due to expire. I also agreed 
that £100 in compensation was fair.
 
However, I thought Zenith needed to do more to put things right. I thought Zenith should 
remove record of the cancellation from internal and external databases. I also noted that, 
while Zenith refunded the cost of Mr Hs premium for the unused period of cover at the date 
of cancellation, Mr H paid a higher premium with his new insurer for that unused period. I 
concluded Zenith should pay him the pro rata difference in premium between his new policy 
and his policy with Zenith for the unused period (assuming the same cover was provided). 
Because I concluded that UKI needed to do more to put things, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
The key part of Mr Hs complaint is that Zenith didnt properly compensate him for the way 
that they cancelled his policy and for the time he had to spend dealing with the cancellation 
and the costs incurred.
Zenith cancelled Mr Hs policy because they decided that they would no longer insure a 
vehicle of Mr Hs type. I accept that insurers make decisions on the types of risk (vehicle) 
that they are willing to insure and the terms under which they will offer insurance. And that 
insurers review those decisions periodically and make changes. However, in Mr Hs case, 
theres no suggestion that he didnt properly describe his vehicle at the most recent renewal 
before Zeniths cancellation  the decision to cancel was made by Zenith due to changes in 
their assessment of risk.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions, specifically those covering the circumstances 
in which Zenith can cancel a policy once in place. None of them relate to changes in risk by 
Zenith and no longer being willing to insure a particular vehicle type. I think Zenith should 
have waited until Mr Hs next renewal date before telling him of the change and that they 
would not provide cover from that point. That would have given Mr H more time to find 
alternative cover, in the same way that he would have had the normal opportunity to change 
insurer at renewal. Ive concluded Zenith acted unfairly in cancelling Mr Hs policy mid-term, 
outside the policy terms and conditions.
Having concluded that Zenith acted unfairly in cancelling Mr Hs policy, Ive considered what 
Zenith need to do to put things right. Ive based this on putting Mr H in the position he would 
have been in had Zenith not cancelled his policy, but then not offering to renew his policy 
when it came up for renewal in February 2021.
 
Zenith offered Mr H £20 in compensation and offered to waive the £70 cancellation fee. But 
it was Zenith that cancelled the policy, not Mr H. Irrespective of what the policy terms and 
conditions say about fees on cancellation, waiving of the fee is what I would have expected 
Zenith to do in the circumstances. Similarly, Zenith offering to waive their commission on the 
policy (calculated as part of the £117 refund of unused period of cover) is also what I would 
have expected them to do.
Mr H told us that he was able to secure alternative cover, but at a higher cost (for a full year) 
compared to the premium for his policy with Zenith at the renewal prior to cancellation. While 
Zenith have refunded the cost of Mr Hs premium for the unused period of cover at the date 
of cancellation, Mr H has paid a higher premium with his new insurer for that unused period 
of cover. To put Mr H in the position he would have been had the cancellation not taken 
place, I think Zenith should pay him the pro rata difference in premium between his new 
policy and his policy with Zenith for the unused period of cover (providing the two policies 
offer the same cover).
  Having cancelled Mr Hs policy, Ive also considered the likelihood that Zenith would have 
recorded the cancellation internally and externally on databases used by the insurance 
industry. This is standard practice in the insurance industry. Insurers can access such 
databases to enable them to see where consumers have had insurance cancelled and use 
such information in deciding whether to offer cover (and on what terms). Having a 
cancellation recorded against him is likely to affect Mr Hs ability to secure insurance cover, 
and the terms on which he can secure it. To put Mr H in the position he would have been 
had it not been for Zeniths cancellation, Zenith should remove all record of the cancellation 
from internal and external databases and correct any information about the cancellation they 
may already have shared.
 
Ive also considered the question of compensation, given that Ive concluded that Zeniths 
cancellation was unfair. Mr H has told us about the impact the cancellation had on him. 
While he had to spend time obtaining alternative cover following the cancellation, Ive also 
considered that  had Zenith simply let his policy run through to the next renewal and then 
not offered to renew it  Mr H would have had to arrange alternative cover at that point. But 
he would have had more notice of the fact. Taking all these points into account, I think £100 
in compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I intend to require Zenith Insurance plc to:
Refund Mr Hs premium (£117) and pay Mr H the pro rata difference in premium 
between his new premium policy and his policy with Zenith for the unused period of 
cover (providing the two polices offer the same cover).
Pay Mr H £100 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Remove any record of the cancellation from both internal and external databases and 
correct any information about the cancellation they may have already shared.
Zenith didnt respond by the date requested for comments.
Mr T responded to confirm the cost and details of his new policy taken out following the 
cancellation of his policy. He also confirmed the cost of calls made to Zenith about his policy 
cancellation of his policy and to other insurers to take out a new policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr Hs new policy cost was £596.23 for a full year, compared to £378.56 with Zenith at 
renewal in February 2020  a difference of £217.67. Mr Hs new policy took effect from 
November 2020, at a point when his policy had just over three months to run. Ive also noted 
that Mr Hs policy with Zenith included breakdown cover (at a cost of £72.50) whereas his 
new policy doesnt. This indicates that on a like for like basis, the difference in cost would be 
£290.17. Applying a three-month period pro rate gives a difference of £72.54.
Mr H also asked for reimbursement of the cost of phone calls that he made to Zenith about 
the cancellation of his policy and also to other insurers to arrange alternative cover following 
the cancellation. Mr H provided evidence of calls costing £23.87. Ive thought about this, but 
Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate to require Zenith to reimburse these costs. Thats because even if Zenith hadnt cancelled Mr Hs policy when they did, they wouldnt 
have offered to renew Mr Hs policy when it was next due for renewal. So, Mr H would still 
have had to arrange alternative cover (and may have wanted to ask Zenith why they werent 
offering to renew his policy). So, I think he would have been likely to have incurred similar 
costs, albeit later.
Neither Mr H nor Zenith commented on the conclusions in my provisional decision regarding 
paying Mr H £100 in compensation and removing any record of the cancellation from both 
internal and external databases and correcting any information about the cancellation 
already shared. So, I havent changed my view on these points.
 
On the refund of his premium for the unused part of his policy with Zenith (£117), my 
understanding is that Zenith have already paid this sum to Mr H. That being the case, Im not 
including the point in my final decision. 
Taking all these points into account, then I havent changed my view to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I require Zenith Insurance plc to:
Pay Mr H the pro rata difference in premium between his new premium policy and his 
policy with Zenith for the unused period of cover (£72.54).
Pay Mr H £100 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Remove any record of the cancellation from both internal and external databases and 
correct any information about the cancellation they may have already shared.
Zenith should also pay simple interest of 8% on the agreed difference in premium (£72.54) 
from the date of Mr H taking out his new policy to the date Mr H tells us he accepts my 
decision (if he accepts the decision).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman