DRN-2797544
The complaint
 Mr G complains about his insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). His complaint 
relates to the rejection of part of a claim for damage to his house from a leak. 
 
What happened
In April 2020 Mr G contacted RSA about a leak from a bathroom in his house. The leak had 
seeped down through the floor of the bathroom though the ceiling into the lounge, causing 
damage.
 
Mr G was asked to provide photographs of the affected areas and to obtain an estimate for 
the cost of repairs to both the bathroom and the lounge. Due to the Covid restrictions in 
place at the time, Mr G provided an estimate the following month of about £5,000 in total. 
Due to the cost of the estimate, RSA appointed their own building inspectors (BI) to inspect 
the damage and to assess Mr Gs claim on RSAs behalf. BI inspected the property and 
concluded that there was damage in the bathroom that had been ongoing for some time, 
evidenced through photographs and the presence of mould. Based on this report RSA 
rejected that part of the claim relating to the bathroom but did agree to pay for some damage 
to the lounge, offering £450.
To support their decision, RSA referred to the terms and conditions of Mr Gs insurance 
policy. Specifically, they noted the Taking care condition that stated:
Your family must take all reasonable steps to avoid incurring liability and prevent 
loss or damage to everything which is covered by this insurance and to keep all the 
property which is insured in good condition and in good repair.
RSA also noted a policy exclusion on wear and tear, which stated:
Wear and tear  Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused 
directly or indirectly caused by or resulting from wear and tear, viruses, disease, 
depreciation, repairs necessary in the normal course of maintenance, corrosion, 
rusting, damp, insects, vermin fungus, condensation, fading, frost or anything that 
happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation or 
restoration.
Mr G complained to RSA about the decision to decline the part of his claim relating to the 
bathroom. RSA considered his complaint but in June 2020 maintained their original decision 
to decline that part of his claim.
  
Mr G was unhappy at the outcome of his complaint and complained to this service in 
September 2020. The main issue of his complaint was that his claim should not have been 
declined and that RSA should have covered the cost of repair to the bathroom as well as to 
the lounge. Mr G was also unhappy that RSAs offer for the damage to the lounge only 
included redecoration and didnt include other damage that wasnt included within the scope 
of BIs inspection and report.
  
Our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator concluded that the insurer had acted 
fairly in the way that they had rejected Mr Gs claim for the cost of repairing the damage to 
the bathroom, based on the exclusion for wear and tear. However, the investigator thought 
that it was unfair to base the settlement figure for the cost of redecoration of the lounge at 
the rates of RSAs contractor, rather than the rates for the same work included in the 
estimate obtained by Mr G. The investigator recommended that RSA issue settlement for the 
redecoration of the lounge as set out in BIs report, but at the rates used by the contractor 
that provided Mr Gs estimate not at the rates RSA wouldve paid its own contractor.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint.
 
In my findings I agreed with the investigators recommendation that RSA issue settlement for 
the redecoration of the affected areas of the lounge based on rates from Mr Gs contractor 
for the same scope of work. But I also provisionally concluded that RSA should consider, as 
a separate claim, any additional damage that might be revealed as part of the rectification 
work. As this second conclusion wasnt part of the investigators conclusions, I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set 
out below.
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mr G.
The main part of Mr Gs complaint is that his claim should not have been rejected, and that 
RSA should have covered the cost to repair the bathroom. He also wanted RSA to cover the 
cost of repair to the lounge to include other damage and not just redecoration.
Ive considered the evidence available concerning the incident. This includes BIs report on 
the damage to the property, including photographs of the bathroom and the lounge. Ive also 
listened to the recordings made by BIs inspector when they inspected Mr Gs property. The 
inspector doubted that the damage was the result of a single event, and that water had been 
leaking around the shower tray in the bathroom for some time and had not been addressed. 
BIs report also includes a comment that the leak was estimated to have been ongoing for 
three months, indicating that this had been gradual.
 
Ive looked at the photographs and they do show that the bathroom was significantly affected 
by staining, by mould and that there were clear gaps in the sealing around the shower. The 
photographs also indicate that the bathroom was in a poor state of decoration.
  
Im persuaded from the evidence that the leak wasnt a one-off event and that it had 
occurred gradually over time. So Ive concluded that RSA acted reasonably in applying the 
Taking care condition and the wear and tear exclusion from the policy terms and conditions 
to reject that part of Mr Gs claim relating to the bathroom.
The second element of Mr Gs complaint was that the RSA offer for the damage to the 
lounge only included the estimated cost of redecoration.
Ive considered the evidence relating to the RSA offer to cover the cost of redecoration of the 
lounge where this was caused by the leak. Ive considered the report from BI on the damage 
and again listened to the recordings taken by the BI inspector at the time of their inspection. 
Ive also considered that the leak in the bathroom had been ongoing for some time prior to 
the incident and therefore that part of the claim relating to the bathroom was declined. Based 
on these factors Ive concluded that it was reasonable for RSA to offer to settle the claim for damage to the lounge based on redecoration of the affected areas (walls and ceilings), 
including the application of stain block to the affected areas prior to redecoration.
 
But as RSA would not use their own contractors to carry out a job of a relatively limited 
scale, I think its fair that RSA should settle based on the same scope of work at rates (an 
estimate) from Mr Gs contractor.
Mr G is concerned that BIs inspector didnt inspect the potential damage that could have 
occurred beneath the bathroom floor. However, from the recordings of the inspection by BIs 
inspector its clear that he did inspect the bathroom, including the floor, as well as the 
damage to the lounge ceiling. He noted that at the time of the inspection the ceiling  while 
being stained  was dry. I think that was a reasonable approach to have taken.
Ive also noted that RSA have said that should any additional damage be revealed as part of 
the rectification work, they would consider that as an additional claim, notwithstanding the 
point about the ongoing nature of the leak. I also think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional view is that I partially uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. I intend to require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Settle that part of Mr Gs claim in respect of the redecoration of the affected areas of 
lounge, based on rates (an estimate) from Mr Gs contractor for the same scope of 
work.
Consider as a separate claim any additional damage that may be revealed as part of 
the rectification work.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr G did not provide any comments. RSA responded to say that they had nothing 
further to add to their previous representations.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  As Ive no further points to review, I havent changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
  For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Gs complaint. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Settle that part of Mr Gs claim in respect of the redecoration of the affected areas of 
lounge, based on rates (an estimate) from Mr Gs contractor for the same scope of 
work.
Consider as a separate claim any additional damage that may be revealed as part of 
the rectification work.Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay the costs within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the costs from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman