DRN-1697585
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Leeds Permanent Building 
Society and later Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
alongside a further mortgage advance. For ease of reference Ill refer to the business as 
Bank of Scotland in the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage through Bank of Scotland in 1973. They later took out a 
further advance to do an extension on their home. In 1991, PPI was added to cover their 
monthly mortgage payments. 
Bank of Scotland says that both Mr and Mrs B were covered equally under the policy for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. Mr and Mrs B are sure that only Mr B was covered 
under the policy. 
The PPI policy cost £12 per month and wouldve covered their repayments of £300 per 
month.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our adjudicators 
view, so their complaint comes to me to for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, I have to make a decision 
about what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Mr and Mrs B have made detailed representations. I have read all of these and taken 
them into account in reaching my decision. I have summarised and set out below what I 
consider to be the key considerations here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear that PPI was optional and did Mr and Mrs B agree to 
take PPI out?
I cant know what was discussed, if anything, when the insurance was added. Bank of 
Scotland no longer has a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs PPI application. And it cant say how the 
PPI was sold to them. Mr and Mrs B say the PPI application not being available is 
particularly significant, because the bank has copies of their other paperwork from around 
that time.
This policy was sold nearly 30 years ago. Banks often only keep records for six years 
because of data protection rules, so I cant fairly hold it against Bank of Scotland that they 
no longer have a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs PPI application, even though it has other historic 
paperwork. 
Mr and Mrs B recall being sold the PPI by post. They say they were sent some literature by 
the bank. influencing them to take out the PPI and they completed and returned the PPI 
form. So, I think PPI was added because Mr and Mrs B told Bank of Scotland they wanted 
it. I havent seen anything to indicate that it wasnt made clear that they didnt have to have 
PPI.
The PPI was added after their further advance was taken out. So, I think Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve understood they didnt have to take PPI to get the further advance itself. I think 
they wouldve understood the optional nature of PPI when they completed the form to say 
they wanted it.
was this an advised sale?
Bank of Scotland has treated this as an advised sale. Mr and Mrs B said that at the time 
this policy was added their child was very seriously ill in hospital, so they know they didnt 
speak to the bank and get advice about PPI at the time of sale 
Our adjudicator treated this as an advised sale. Thats because by doing so, it placed a 
higher responsibility on the bank. With an advised sale, the bank wouldve had to consider 
the suitability of the PPI for them, in their particular circumstances, before recommending 
it.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B may be right about this not being an advised sale. Their 
reasons for recollecting this, seem very strong. But, I still consider it fairer to them, to treat 
this as an advised sale. 
Either way, whether this was an advised sale or not, Bank of Scotland also had to provide 
Mr and Mrs B with enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI at the 
time, so that they could make an informed choice about whether PPI was right for them 
and they wanted to buy it. So, the literature Mr and Mrs B mention seeing, wouldve 
needed to be clear, fair and not misleading in content.
So, I will first consider whether the policy was suitable for them in their circumstances, and 
then go on to consider whether the information they were given was clear, fair and not 
misleading.
suitability 
Mr and Mrs B say this policy covered Mr B only. Bank of Scotland say Mr and Mrs B were 
covered 50:50 under the policy. I have assessed this complaint on both bases, to avoid 
any doubt. Having done so, I cant see that on either basis this policy was unsuitable for Mr 
and Mrs Bs circumstances. Ill say why.
Mr B was self-employed at the time of sale. Looking at this policys particular 
terms and conditions, I can see that it provided cover for people that were self-
employed. And it wasnt any more difficult for a self-employed person to make a 
claim if they were out of work. So, it seems that Mr B was eligible to take out the 
PPI. And looking at the main limitations and exclusions on cover, I cant see 
that Mr B was affected by these. So, as Mr B couldve benefitted from the cover the policy offered, I think it was suitable for him. Mr and Mrs B said that the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had said that PPI policies dont cover self-
employed people and so this service should check with the FCA.  But, having 
seen the terms and conditions of this specific policy, I dont consider that 
necessary. 
Mr and Mrs B suggest that an analysis of Mr Bs profit and loss account and 
personal outgoings wouldve been necessary to assess whether he was eligible 
for cover under the policy. But, assessing his eligibility for the policy wouldve 
been based on his age and whether he was working. So, I cant see that that 
level of detail, wouldve likely been required.
If they were jointly covered under the policy, Mrs B appeared eligible to take out 
the policy too given her age and work circumstances. 
I cant see that either Mr or Mrs B wouldve been affected by any of the main 
limitations or policy exclusions, neither said they had any pre-existing medical 
conditions, for example. 
Mr and Mrs B say that only Mr B can say whether the policy was of benefit to 
him and benefit can only become apparent if and when payment is made under 
the policy. However, the purpose of insurance is to provide cover in case a risk 
materialises. At the point the insurance is taken out, it cant be known whether a 
claim will ever be made. So, I dont agree that benefit can only be assessed on 
the basis of whether a successful claim is made. 
They said Mr B wouldve been eligible to get DSS sickness benefit if he wasnt 
fit to work and he could claim hardship and the interest on his mortgage. But, 
they said, in any event, Mrs Bs income would have been sufficient to support 
their family and pay the bills. Looking at these other resources, I cant see that 
this made the policy unsuitable. DSS sickness benefit may have been less than 
Mr Bs usual earnings, so there could potentially have been a shortfall. And I 
dont know what the impact of Mrs B working wouldve been on their ability to 
claim mortgage interest, particularly if her income was sufficient to cover their 
monthly expenses as stated. Also, the PPI policy provided cover for 
unemployment also. So, I think PPI couldve provided them with a valuable 
benefit, to protect their home.
If this was a joint policy, then Mrs B was eligible to get sick pay through her 
employer. She said six months worth at full pay and six months worth at half 
pay. But I still dont think this means they clearly didnt need PPI. Mrs B 
couldve used her work-related benefits to meet their other household 
expenditure. So, I still think it couldve provided them with valuable cover.
Mr and Mrs B said their further advance was for £15,000. But that they had 
around £20,000 to £30,000 in savings. They mentioned receiving an 
inheritance. They said they have asked the bank for copies of their bank 
records going back to 1991 to show their savings. I understand it has proved 
very difficult for Mr and Mrs B to get this information, given the passage of time. 
So, in the same way that I cant fairly hold it against the bank, for records no 
longer being available, I also cant fairly hold that against Mr and Mrs B either. 
So, Ive proceeded on the basis that they did have this level of savings. Even 
still, this doesnt lead me to the conclusion that this clearly made this policy 
unsuitable for their needs and circumstances. In reaching this conclusion, I 
have taken into account that Mr and Mrs B clearly chose to take a further 
advance rather than using their savings to finance the extension. So, I think it 
likely it was important to them to safeguard these savings. Mr and Mrs B told us 
that they had never had such a significant amount of savings before, and it 
gave them a sense of security for the future. So, I think having PPI wouldve 
avoided them having to dip into these savings to pay the mortgage on the 
further advance if their circumstances changed.Mr and Mrs B said their full financial circumstances were not known to the bank. 
And it cant have been known they were funding treatment for their seriously ill 
child. However, based on what Ive seen, and the fact that Mr and Mrs B opted 
to take this cover, knowing they had to pay something separate for it on top of 
their mortgage repayments, and they paid this, I think I can fairly assume it was 
affordable for them. Also, Mr and Mrs B couldve cancelled the monthly paid 
policy at any time without losing out financially.
So, looked at overall, I cant see that this policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B needs 
and circumstances at the time it was taken out.
clear, fair and not misleading information
I havent seen the literature that Mr and Mrs B say led them into taking out PPI. It seems to 
me that one of their main criticisms of it was that it influenced then to take out the cover, 
and this wasnt fair. However, I havent heard anything in particular that leads me to 
believe that this paperwork was fundamentally unfair.
Mr and Mrs B said that Bank of Scotland failed in its duty of care towards them by not 
having a conversation with them after it received their completed PPI application form. If 
however, as Mr and Mrs B suggest, this was a non-advised sale, Bank of Scotland was not 
under any obligation to go through the PPI application with them. It was for Mr and Mrs B 
to decide for themselves, based on the information they had been sent by Bank of 
Scotland, whether PPI was right for them and they wanted to buy it.
its possible, based on what weve learnt from dealing with other cases like this, that Bank 
of Scotland couldve given Mr and Mrs B clearer information about the costs and benefits 
of the policy. But, for the same reasons as Ive listed above regarding suitability, I dont 
think this wouldve made a difference to their decision to buy PPI. I say this because the 
policy appeared suitable, affordable and likely I think Mr and Mrs B opted to take the PPI 
knowing they didnt have to.
Having taken everything into account, I am not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint 
and so I make no award.
Mr and Mrs B also say that the investigator failed to take into account that Bank of 
Scotland carried out a phone survey and the questions they were asked were not 
consistent with the paper questionnaire they were later asked to complete. They also say I 
should take into account that Bank of Scotland told them during that phone call that they 
would be eligible for a compensation pay out. Neither of these things change my view. I 
can only make an award where I consider it fair and reasonable to do so, and I dont think 
it would be fair to do so here for the reasons I have explained.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman