DRN-2941009
The complaint
Mr H says that Nationwide Building Society (nationwide) were wrong to reject a claim he 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr H made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Section 75 explains that there is not a like claim against the creditor: 
S75 (3) b  so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding [£100]2 or more than [£30,000].
The supplier attached a cash price of £5 to the goods, not the £5,924.33 that was charged 
by accident.
So, I dont think Nationwide were wrong to reject Mr Hs claim as the transaction wasnt 
covered by the Act and I therefore dont think they need to refund any charges that were 
made in the process.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman