DRN-3326971
The complaint
Ms D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around October 2016, Ms D was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Ms D decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In October 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Ms Ds behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Ms D to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Ms D or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Ms D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had relied on a different version of the solar quotation to the version 
which Ms D had been given;
Ms D did not recall being shown the quotation during the sales meeting, and a copy 
was only sent to her some months after the sale;
Ms D recalled being briefly shown some figures during the sales meeting, but not in 
detail;
satisfied with what she had been told in the sales meeting, Ms D had not thought it 
necessary to rely on the quotation or on any other written figures;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Ms Ds claims were credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Ms D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms D could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms D and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and two versions of the solar quote, titled Your 
Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the 
alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. 
Of the two versions of this document with which I have been provided, only one can be 
correct, since they contain different figures. One (provided by the CMC) is dated October 
2016, and the other (provided by Shawbrook) is dated March 2017. I have relied on the 2016 
version, for the following reasons. Firstly, its date is contemporaneous with the sale. 
Secondly, it was provided by the CMC, who say they got it from Ms D, so Im satisfied its the 
one she was given. Thirdly, it has been signed by her; the other one is unsigned. Fourthly, 
the estimated annual generation figure matches the figure in the MCS certificate (3,561 kWh 
a year); the other one has a completely different figure. So I have discounted the 2017 
version.
Im satisfied that the 2016 version of the quote formed a central part of the sales process 
and is therefore relevant when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact 
alongside Ms Ds recollection of the sale.The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Ms D agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Ms D simply took the 
salesmans word for it when she was told that she could buy thousands of pounds worth of 
equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing her a penny, without at 
any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Ms D has 
simply forgotten seeing the quote over the four years between the sale and the bringing of 
her claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Ms D agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
Ms D has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Ms D has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Ms D could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Ms D could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £233.78.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms D could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £415.84 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Ms D, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £889.62. 
This is shown in the first row of a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Ms D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £105.78. For each year of the 15 year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for the first seven years  meaning that the loan repayments would exceed 
the return from the system during that period.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Ms D could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Ms D that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Ms D, so Im satisfied that it was brough to her attention. Im of the view that this 
makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. I think the quote is 
clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and monthly loan 
repayments.
However, I do accept that Ms D was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 9 years for the overall benefits that Ms D could expect to 
receive to match the cash price of the system.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This shows that during year 15 the overall benefits that Ms D could expect to 
receive would catch up with the total amount payable under the loan agreement (£19,140).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Ms D that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 9 years, and for the loan in about 15 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced 
her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Ms D. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,561 kWh a year.
I have looked at Ms Ds FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,408 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Ms D hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms D could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Ms D entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms D to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Ms D to decide whether to 
accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its delay in responding to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman