DRN-3057125
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that the pension she has received is too low. She complains that 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) told her that her pension would be higher than it is. 
And she thinks Aviva should pay this higher amount rather than the lower amount it is now 
paying her. 
What happened
Mrs P was a member of an occupational pension scheme. The administration of the scheme 
has been undertaken by a number of businesses. Most recently, in September 2012, it was 
taken over by Aviva.
On 4 October 2012 Mrs P was sent a retirement quote. This said: 
I can confirm that your normal retirement date is 2 July 2018. At this date your entitlement 
under this arrangement is as follows:-
A pension of £4,206.00 per annum is payable from your normal retirement date.
In May 2018, Mrs P was sent a further quote and a claim form. This said: 
Your pension is £2,511.70 a year and it will be paid in equal monthly amounts of £209.31
for the rest of your life. The first payment is due on 2 July 2018.
Mrs P completed an application form on 25 June 2018 and she took the full pension option 
of £2,511.70 per year. 
She has complained that this amount was lower than previously stated by Aviva. In its 
response to the complaint, Aviva has said that the amount shown in the quote of 
of 2012 was incorrect. This was because it used Mrs Ps annual salary rather than her 
pension entitlement. Aviva has paid Mrs P £250 for the distress and inconvenience this error 
caused her.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. She said it was established that the 
information given in 2012 was incorrect. And so, Aviva was right to pay the lower pension 
amount as this is what Mrs P was entitled to. She also thought that the compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience was fair. 
Mrs P disagreed and the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has acknowledged that it made a mistake when it informed Mrs P that her pension 
would be £4,206 a year in 2012. What happened is that it used Mrs Ps final salary in the 
quotation, rather than the amount of pension she would receive from the scheme. I think its 
been established that Aviva mistakenly told Mrs P that she would receive a higher pension 
than she was actually due. 
But it doesnt mean that Aviva should pay the higher amount. Aviva needs to pay Mrs P the 
amount of pension that she is entitled to. And Im satisfied this is the £2,511.70. So, Aviva is 
paying Mrs P the correct amount and I dont think she has suffered a loss in respect of the 
amount of pension she is receiving. Im not upholding this part of her complaint. 
As Ive said above, its clear Aviva made a mistake here and it provided Mrs P with incorrect 
information. And Mrs P says this incorrect information has caused her some distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mrs P was given the incorrect information by Aviva in 2012. And this led her to believe for 
several years that her pension was going to be higher than she was entitled to. But she 
wasnt caused ongoing distress over this time. She was caused distress in 2018, when she 
found out this information was wrong. And I dont doubt this was upsetting. But Aviva 
correctly explained the error that it had made and acknowledged the upset caused at the 
time. And Mrs P was informed what her pension would be before she took it. So, taking 
everything into account I think the £250 compensation that Aviva has already paid for this is 
reasonable.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman