DRN-3244610
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
Mrs Ms husband Mr M sadly died on 24 December 2020. She is his personal representative.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from November 2019, Mr M had a British Gas HomeCare policy for kitchen 
appliances namely a freezer, a washing machine and a tumble dryer. The policy provided 
that if an appliance was beyond economic repair, British Gas would pay a percentage of the 
cost of a new one.
Mr M had made Mrs M his representative to deal with British Gas. In late October 2020, their 
tumble dryer wasnt working and she contacted British Gas to ask for help. After some 
cancelled appointments, British Gas sent an engineer in November 2020. At about that time, 
Mr M renewed the policy for a further year, paying in instalments.
By early December 2020, the claim was unresolved and British Gas registered a complaint.
As Ive said, Mr M sadly died on 24 December 2020.
On about 23 February 2021, Mrs M asked British Gas to cancel the policy. By a final 
response dated 23 February 2021, British Gas offered £20.00 as a gesture of goodwill. But it 
made the cheque payable to Mr M. At about the same time, Mrs M received a voucher 
towards a new dryer.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us on 23 August 2021, just within the deadline of six months 
after the final response. We contacted British Gas about this in mid-October 2021.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that British 
Gas was responsible for poor service. He recommended that British Gas should offer Mrs M 
£250.00 (including the £20.00) for distress and inconvenience.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. It says, in summary, that:
Mr M was the contract owner and Mrs M was a nominee.
Call recordings are kept for a maximum of 90 days.
Its systems dont show that it had been notified of the passing of Mr M.
Its systems dont show that Mrs M made British Gas aware that she hadnt received 
the agreed contribution.
£250.00 is too much. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
Whats covered
A contribution towards a replacement if we cant repair it or we decide it will cost 
less to replace than to repair. Well source the replacement from our approved 
supplier and make the following contribution based on their current retail selling price: 
 100% if your appliance is less than three years old 
 30% if your appliance is three years old or more 
You may be required to provide proof of purchase to help verify the appliance value 
You may use our contribution towards an alternative model of your choice from our 
approved supplier. There is no cash alternative.
Ive looked carefully at the British Gas records. But Mrs M has provided a timeline that is 
much more detailed. And British Gas has provided no call recordings. So, where theres a 
conflict, I prefer the evidence of Mrs M.
I find that British Gas mishandled its communications with Mrs M. British Gas was 
responsible for making appointments with various contractors and then giving conflicting 
information about whether they were going ahead  until British Gas made the visit in  
November 2020.
I find British Gas responsible for failing to follow-up that visit in a timely way.
After the shock of the sad death of her husband, Mrs M says that she contacted British Gas 
on 4 January 2021. I dont doubt her statement that she told British Gas of her loss and 
asked for the policy to be put in her name. In any event, the policy was still live and it 
covered appliances that Mrs M needed. So I find it fair to say that Mrs M was the person with 
the benefit of the policy.
So British Gas shouldve done more to make sure its letter was addressed to her rather than 
to Mr M later that month.
Similarly British Gas shouldnt have asked to speak to Mr M when one of its customer 
managers rang on 23 February 2021. In the absence of a call recording, I dont doubt Mrs 
Ms statement that she told him about the loss of her husband and her dissatisfaction with 
British Gas  yet he finished the call by saying  have a nice day. I dont consider that 
appropriate.
As the British Gas cover had continued until it was cancelled, I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to uphold Mrs Ms request for a refund of premium for the final three months.The final response letter was addressed to Mrs M. So British Gas shouldve done more to 
make sure its letter of 25 February 2021 (confirming cancellation) was addressed to her 
rather than Mr M. 
Similarly, British Gas shouldve done more to make sure that its cheque dated 1 March 2021 
was payable to Mrs M. And even after Mrs M rang British Gas on 19 March to ask it to send  
a cheque payable to her, British Gas didnt do so.
Ive thought about the shortcomings in the communication of British Gas and the impact on 
Mrs M. I keep in mind that the uncertainty hung over her for several months. During that 
time, she suffered the loss of her husband and told British Gas. But it caused her further 
upset at an already difficult time for her. I consider that the final response of British Gas  
and its cheque for £20.00 payable to Mr M - did nothing to make things better. 
Putting things right
Overall I agree with the investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay 
Mrs M £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman