DRN-3726776
The complaint
Mr D complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly 
terminated his hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement for a used car with VWFS in April 2021. The 
agreement required Mr D to make an advanced payment, 47 monthly payments of £258.38  
and an optional payment to purchase the vehicle at the end of the agreement. 
Mr D missed payments early in the agreement, and VWFS sent him letters about the arrears 
in May 2021 and June 2021, before sending a reminder and then a default notice in July 
2021. Mr D made a payment before the deadline on the default notice to bring his account 
up to date. 
Mr D missed further payments in late 2021, and VWFS entered a payment arrangement with 
him in October 2021 to bring his account up to date. Mr D didnt keep to this agreement and 
so VWFS wrote to him about the arrears again in November 2021 and December 2021. Mr 
D cleared some of these arrears in January 2022. 
VWFS wrote to Mr D in February 2022, March 2022 and April 2022 about the arrears on his 
account, and entered a payment arrangement with him in April 2022 where Mr D agreed to 
make additional payments in April and May to clear the arrears on his account and bring it 
up to date. 
Mr D didnt make the payments in line with this arrangement, and so VWFS sent him a 
default notice in May 2022 which set out that Mr D would need to clear the arrears within 20 
days to prevent further action being taken.
In June 2022 VWFS terminated Mr Ds agreement and asked recovery agents to repossess 
the car or collect full settlement under the agreement. 
Mr D complained to VWFS about the termination in June 2022. VWFS sent Mr D their final 
response to his complaint in June 2022. They said after theyd received no payments and no 
contact from Mr D, a default notice was issued in May 2022. They said theyd tried to contact 
him after the default notice had expired but had received no response, so the agreement 
was correctly terminated in June 2022. VWFS didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, and said 
either the vehicle would be repossessed, or hed need to pay the full settlement balance plus 
agent costs in order to purchase the car. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to this service for investigation. Mr D said he 
paid in full and on time every month until April 2022, when his business suffered financial 
setbacks and went into liquidation, and he missed payments for his agreement. 
Mr D said he received a letter from VWFS in June 2022 terminating the agreement because 
of the missed payments, but he was given no chance to respond to this, and no prior notice 
that the agreement would be terminated. 
Mr D said it was unfair to repossess the vehicle and record this on his credit file for two 
missed payments. Mr D said he wanted to pay the arrears and continue under the original 
terms of the agreement. 
Our investigator gave her view that VWFS had acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the agreement and had made reasonable attempts to contact Mr D before terminating the 
agreement. She didnt think VWFS needed to do anything more. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said his personal financial circumstances hadnt been taken into 
account, or that he was now in a position to maintain payments on the agreement. He said 
he didnt receive a default notice in May 2022 and the first he knew about the termination 
was in June 2022.
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Mr D said he felt it was unfair that the agreement was terminated, and the report would 
remain on his credit file for so long when hed missed two payments. Ive considered the 
evidence provided about Mr Ds payment history. I can see that Mr D fell into arrears a 
number of times between April 2021 and April 2022. VWFS sent Mr D reminder letters for 
late or missed payments on nine occasions in 2021 and four occasions in 2022. They sent a 
number of text messages and emails to Mr D between these letters, and arrangements to 
repay arrears were entered in October 2021 and April 2022, both of which Mr D didnt keep 
to. 
So, Im satisfied that it wasnt only two months of missed payments that ultimately led to the 
termination of Mr Ds agreement. 
Mr D has said that his personal financial circumstances werent taken into account before 
the agreement was terminated. VWFS have a responsibility to treat consumers in default or 
arrears with forbearance and due consideration. 
When Mr D entered a payment arrangement in October 2021, I can see that VWFS asked 
him for the reason hed fell behind with payments. Mr D told VWFS that hed had the funds 
available in his account a day after VWFS had tried to take the payment, so he wasnt aware 
that payments had been missed. 
When Mr D entered a payment arrangement to clear the arrears in April 2022 VWFS asked 
him for the reason hed fell behind with payments. Mr D told VWFS that hed been unable to 
access his online banking to make sure the payments had been made. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr Ds business suffered financially in early 2022. But I havent seen 
any evidence that Mr D made VWFS aware of his personal circumstances, or any financial 
difficulty that he was facing as a result of them.  
VWFS sent Mr D a number of letters, emails and text messages asking him to contact them 
to discuss the arrears, and Mr D told VWFS that his payments were affordable and the only 
reason theyd been missed was as a result of funds not being available at the right time, or him not having access to online banking. VWFS allowed Mr D to keep his monthly payments 
and to enter payment arrangements in order to bring his account up to date on two 
occasions. 
So, Im satisfied that VWFS treated Mr D with forbearance and due consideration in the 
circumstances. I cant say VWFS needed to consider Mr Ds business circumstances when 
he didnt disclose this information to them. 
VWFS sent Mr D a letter on 20 April 2022 setting out the payment arrangement he had 
entered, to pay £130.14 on 25 April 2022 and £130.14 on 2 May 2022 to bring his account 
up to date. I think its reasonable to say that Mr D knew he hadnt made the first of these 
payments when they were due, and VWFS sent Mr D a letter on 1 May 2022 to confirm that 
the payment arrangement had been broken, and the arrears would need to be paid within 
seven days. So, I think Mr D should reasonably have been aware that if he didnt bring his 
account up to date, further action may be taken. 
Mr D said he didnt receive a default notice in May 2022, and the first he knew about the 
termination was when the agreement was terminated in June 2022. 
Ive seen the default notice that VWFS sent to Mr D in May 2022, and Im satisfied that this 
was sent and addressed correctly to Mr D. I dont doubt that Mr D didnt receive it, but I cant 
hold VWFS responsible for a problem with the postal service. 
VWFS are required to send a default notice where payments havent been made, prior to 
terminating the agreement. The notice sets out the sum required to be paid, and the 
deadline in which to pay it. It goes on to set out what action may follow if the account isnt 
brought up to date. VWFS sent Mr D two default notices containing this information. One in 
July 2021 and one in May 2022. So, Im satisfied they made Mr D aware of what might 
happen, including termination of the agreement
After the default notice had expired, VWFS attempted to contact Mr D by phone and email 
but they received no response. The email explained that the agreement was at risk of being 
terminated if Mr D didnt contact VWFS. So, Im satisfied that VWFS treated Mr D fairly after 
the default notice had expired by providing further time for him to get in touch. 
The agreement between VWFS and Mr D states that missing payments may lead to a 
default notice being served, on the expiry of which the agreement may be terminated. So, 
Im satisfied that VWFS acted in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement when 
they terminated it. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr D faced some financial difficulty in relation to his business, and 
his personal circumstances have now improved, Im satisfied that he did not make the 
payments that were due under the agreement on a number of occasions, that VWFS asked 
him about his financial situation and did all they could to help him bring his account up to 
date by allowing Mr D to enter payment arrangements. Im satisfied that a default notice was 
appropriately issued to Mr D, and that VWFS treated Mr D fairly in trying to contact him prior 
to terminating the agreement. Im satisfied that the agreement allowed VWFS to terminate it 
when they did, and so I cant fairly ask them to reinstate it. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman