DRN-3113475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC reneged on a promise to waive their monthly 
account fees for life.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a joint personal current account with Lloyds. This Gold Service Account 
comes with various benefits, and usually carries a monthly fee of £14.95. But several years 
ago, before they retired, their local branch manager offered to waive the monthly charges for 
life, if they continued to use Lloyds for their business banking. Mr and Mrs G accepted that 
offer, and stayed with Lloyds until they retired. They say that they passed tens of millions of 
pounds through their Lloyds business account, instead of moving to another bank, as a 
result of accepting that offer.
In late 2019, Lloyds wrote to all of its Gold Service Account customers who were paying 
reduced or no fees, including Mr and Mrs G, to tell them that from February 2020 they would 
have to pay the full fee if they wanted to keep their accounts. Mr and Mrs G complained 
about that, pointing out that the deal had been for life, and that Lloyds had benefitted from it 
too. In January 2020, Lloyds upheld their complaint, on the basis that its letter had been 
meant for other customers but not for them. It told them they could continue to have their 
account for free, and paid them £50 compensation. But Lloyds now says that this was a 
mistake, and the complaint should never have been upheld.
Due to the covid-19 pandemic, the change was not implemented until September 2020. 
Again, it applied to Mr and Mrs G, and again Mr and Mrs G complained. This time, Lloyds 
maintained that they would have to either pay the monthly fee, or downgrade to another 
account without benefits. Lloyds paid them £30 as a pre-emptive refund of the fees for 
September and October 2020, to give Mr and Mrs G time to decide what they wanted to do, 
and paid them another £30 by way of apology for having given them the wrong information in 
January. Being dissatisfied with that outcome, Mr and Mrs G brought this complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Lloyds had made a commercial 
decision to begin charging a fee for the account, and that our service would not interfere with 
the banks exercise of its commercial discretion. She said Lloyds had given reasonable 
advance notice of the change. She said Lloyds had paid fair compensation for its mixed 
messages.
Mr and Mrs G did not accept that opinion. They argued that by offering a deal for life and 
later withdrawing it, Lloyds had misled them into staying with Lloyds rather than banking with 
a competitor which had been keen to have their business. This could not be right. They 
asked for an ombudsman to review their case.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I agree that Lloyds is generally entitled to unilaterally change its terms and conditions from 
time to time, upon giving its customers notice in accordance with the term which governs its 
exercise of this power. That is something that routinely happens in the banking industry, and 
which is provided for within the terms and conditions, to which the banks customers agree 
when they open their accounts, and so our service would not normally interfere with that.
But I think the situation Mr and Mrs G have complained about is quite different. This was the 
termination of a bespoke agreement which they had entered into with Lloyds, and they had 
been assured that this arrangement was for life. I think that if Lloyds had wanted to be able 
to withdraw the deal, then it should have told Mr and Mrs G at the time that the deal was not 
for life but that it was subject to withdrawal at any time, or after a fixed time. As it was Lloyds 
which offered this deal, it is fair to hold Lloyds to it, even if it now regrets the terms of the 
deal. The branch manager must have intended this agreement to override the clause in the 
terms and conditions which says that Lloyds can change the terms on which it does 
business with its customers at large, because otherwise the agreement could not have been 
for life, but merely until further notice. It is not likely that Mr and Mrs G would have been 
swayed by an offer which could be withdrawn at any time.
I am reinforced in my view by the fact that Mr and Mrs G relied on Lloyds promise, 
potentially to their detriment. They agreed to continue banking with Lloyds instead of moving 
to a rival bank which might have offered them a better deal than the one Lloyds now says 
theyve got, which is presumably why Lloyds offered them a deal in the first place. So I think 
that it would be unfair of the bank to renege on that promise now just because it suits it to do 
so.
If the branch manager did not have the authority to offer this arrangement, then Mr and 
Mrs G could not have been expected to know that. Lloyds still benefited from it. So I think it 
is fair to treat Lloyds as being bound by it.
I therefore propose to direct Lloyds to waive the monthly account fee for as long as Mr and 
Mrs G (or either one of them, if it ever ceases to be a joint account) continue to have the 
Gold Service Account, and also to refund the monthly fees they have paid since November 
2020, with interest.
However, this does not mean that Mr and Mrs G have to be allowed to have a Gold Service 
Account forever. Lloyds is no longer offering this kind of account to new customers, or as an 
upgrade or downgrade to existing customers, so its obsolete except for the people who 
already have it. This is probably an effort to encourage people to stop using it, with a view in 
the long term to ending this account eventually. I do not think that the branch managers 
offer meant that Mr and Mrs G would be allowed to continue to have a Gold Service Account 
even after it had been retired for everybody else  only that they would not be charged fees 
for as long as they had it.
I have considered whether it would be fair to require Lloyds to transfer the deal over to 
whatever kind of account eventually replaces the Gold Service Account. But I think that 
would probably be going further than the branch manager intended. The deal appears to 
have been limited to the kind of account Mr and Mrs G had when it was offered to them.
So my provisional decision is that I currently intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any 
further representations I receive from the parties by the date below, I intend to order Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Waive the Gold Account maintaining the account fee every month for as long as Mr 
and Mrs G (or either of them) have their Gold Service Account,
Refund all such fees that they have paid since November 2020, and
Pay simple interest on the refunds at the rate of eight percent a year.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision in principle, but said that due to recent changes 
made to its systems it was no longer able to waive the account fees on a monthly basis. Nor 
could it guarantee that the account could be reviewed annually. Instead, it offered to refund 
the fees already paid (minus the £30 already refunded), with interest, and to pay Mr and 
Mrs G in advance for two years worth of future fees. It later increased that offer to five years 
of future fees (which comes to £897). It argued that this was long enough, since the Gold 
Service Account might be withdrawn at some point during that period.
Mr and Mrs G had already accepted my provisional decision, but I asked for their comments 
about the banks proposal. They argued that since Lloyds had been able to waive the 
monthly fees until recently, it should be possible to keep doing that. If the account was 
withdrawn in the future, then this would be a breach of the agreement, and so they should 
either be moved to a similar account or further compensated at the time the account is 
withdrawn.
My findings
Unfortunately my original proposal cannot be implemented, since Lloyds is no longer able to 
waive the account fee each month. That cannot be helped. I suggested that the account be 
reviewed each year and a years worth of fees be paid in advance, but that was not practical. 
So I now think that the best solution is to refund, in advance, the fees for a fixed period.
I told Lloyds that two years was too short, since the account might not have been withdrawn 
by then. But five years seems to me to be a reasonable term, since, as I said in my 
provisional decision (see page 2), it is likely that the Gold Service Account, which has 
already been withdrawn from new customers, will eventually be withdrawn altogether. That 
might not happen in the next two years, but I expect it is likely to happen within the next five. 
I remain of the view that the agreement with the branch manager does not prevent that, so it 
follows that when the account is closed, no more compensation will be payable.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund all of the monthly account fees that Mr and Mrs G have paid to date (minus 
the £30 which has already been refunded),
Pay them simple interest on these refunds at the rate of eight per cent a year, and
Pay them another £897 (being 60 months worth of account fees).
(If Lloyds considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much it has taken off. It should also give 
them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. Mr and Mrs G should refer back to Lloyds if they are unsure of the approach it 
has taken, and the parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman