DRN-4048932
The complaint
Mr R isnt happy with the cash settlement offered by Ageas Insurance Limited following a 
claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
On 3 November 2022 Mr R made a claim on his buildings insurance following a blocked 
drain. He said he wasnt offered any advice or assistance from Ageas when he reported the 
claim. On 7 November 2022 Mr R appointed a contractor to carry out repairs as hed heard 
nothing from Ageas and was worried that the sewage was coming into his house. He paid 
the contractor £2,340.
Ageas then called Mr R on 9 November 2022 to discuss his claim. Mr R said the repairs had 
already been carried out and provided Ageas with details of the work that had been done 
and his contractors invoice. Ageas accepted the claim under the terms of the policy but said 
it thought the contractors rates were excessive. It offered a cash settlement of £1,479.29 
less the £150 policy excess. This sum was calculated using its own contractors rates. 
Mr R complained to Ageas and said it should pay the full cost of the repairs. Ageas said that 
Mr Rs invoice was excessive and that it could have carried out the work for considerably 
less. It referred to the terms and conditions of the policy and said it wouldnt pay more than it 
would have cost it to carry out the work itself. Mr R wasnt happy with this and brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Ageas had treated Mr R fairly and that it should reimburse Mr R 
in full for the cost of the repairs. She said that Mr R had been offered no support when he 
first reported the claim and there were delays getting back to him which led to him arranging 
the repairs himself. Ageas didnt agree. It referred again to its policy and said that it would 
pay no more than what it would have paid its own contractor. The complaint has therefore 
been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has accepted the claim under the terms of its policy and so what Im looking at is 
whether the amount of the cash settlement offered by Ageas is fair.
Ive looked at the terms and condition of Mr Rs policy. Ageas rely on the general conditions 
at page 51 where it says We will not pay more than the cost to us (after any discount 
available from our approved suppliers) of repairing or rebuilding the buildings. I accept that 
this means that Ageas wouldnt usually pay more for repairs than what its own contractor 
would have charged. However, I dont think this approach is fair in the circumstances of this 
case  and Ill explain why. 
The blocked drain was first reported to Ageas on 3 November 2022. Mr R says he wasnt 
offered any support or assistance during this call and wasnt given any recommendations for 
contractors to carry out the repairs. Ageas was asked to provide us with a copy of the call 
recording so that we could confirm what was said but this hasnt been forthcoming. I 
therefore see no reason to doubt Mr Rs account of this conversation.
Mr R was worried about sewage entering his home - or that further damage might be 
caused. As hed heard nothing further from Ageas by 7 November 2022, he arranged the 
repairs himself. 
When Ageas contacted Mr R on 9 November 2022, hed already had the work done. In the 
How to Make a Claim section of the policy it says that if repairs are needed Ageas will try to 
arrange for one of its approved contractors to contact the policyholder within two days. This 
didnt happen, and Mr R wasnt contacted for a week. So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Mr R to go ahead and arrange the repairs himself. 
Mr R provided Ageas with a copy of his invoice and details of the repairs that were carried 
out. Ageas said that it thought the repairs were appropriate but that the rates charged by the 
contractor were excessive. I note that Mr R negotiated a discounted fixed price with his 
contractor, so that the cost was actually reduced from over £2,700 to £2,340. Ive seen the 
schedule of costs that Ageass contractor would have charged and can see that it was less 
than the discounted fee charged by Mr Rs contractor. However, I think that Mr R was left 
with little option but to carry out the repairs himself as hed received no assistance from 
Ageas and hed heard nothing since his initial call. 
As a result of the initial poor handling of this claim, Mr R has been left out of pocket. I 
therefore think it fair for Ageas to reimburse Mr R with the full costs of the repair which is 
£2,340 including VAT. If there is an excess to pay, this should be deducted from this sum. I 
also think that Ageas should pay interest at 8% from the date that Mr R made payment to his 
contractor to the date that Ageas refund the money to him. I say this because Mr R has been 
without the use of the money during this time. I think this is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr R £2,340 less any excess payable under the policy; and
pay interest at 8% on the above sum from the date that Mr R paid his contractor to 
the date that Ageas pay the money to Mr R.
If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman