DRN-3157175
The complaint
Company Y (Y) complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) unfairly declined its business interruption claim due to it being made outside 
the maximum indemnity period. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions set out that NFU will cover business interruption claims 
during a 12-month indemnity period, which is defined as:
The period beginning from the date of DAMAGE during which the results of YOUR 
BUSINESS are affected by the DAMAGE by an INSURED PERIL and ending when 
the results of YOUR BUSINESS cease to be affected by the DAMAGE but not 
exceeding the maximum indemnity period shown on YOUR schedule. 
However, NFU say that Ys claim exceeds the maximum indemnity period for business 
interruption claims, as the policy will only extend to cover losses within 12 months of an 
insured peril occurring. Two of Ys poultry sheds were damaged by heavy snowfall in March 
2018, so NFU said that any business interruption losses extending beyond March 2019 
would not be considered.
Y didnt think this was fair, as it said that it was always its intention to take both damaged 
sheds out of production at the end of the crop year so they could be repaired. But in order to 
mitigate its losses, it decided to carry on with production whilst sourcing repair quotes, with 
the intention being that it would then claim on its business interruption cover when the sheds 
were taken out of production to be fixed. Y managed to repair one of its sheds in increments 
without having to take it out of production, and eventually only ended up having to take the 
other one out of production throughout April/May 2019 for repair. 
Having reviewed all the evidence and arguments, Im not persuaded that NFU have acted 
fairly or reasonably by declining to cover Ys losses from 2019. It seems likely that Y could 
have taken both its sheds out of production for immediate repair, which wouldve had the 
most disruptive impact on its business. But they decided to wait and keep the sheds in 
production while sourcing repair quotes, so as to mitigate any losses the insurer would have 
to cover, as taking them both out of production and ending the crop early wouldve likely 
resulted in much larger losses during the indemnity period than Y eventually realised. 
Therefore, while the action Y took inevitably meant that its business losses were incurred 
later, this worked to the benefit of NFU in limiting its exposure during the indemnity period. 
So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for the insurer to now use Ys mitigating actions 
(which delayed the occurrence of its business losses) in order to limit its liability further. 
Indeed, the loss adjuster also noted this in his report to the insurer:
We would however advise that the Insured has been proactive to avoid losing 
revenue and did have the option to end the crops early when the damage was 
discovered to commence the works. However, in order to avoid revenue, once 
estimates were received the repairs were staggered to avoid the potential loss to 
both houses. In the circumstances, we believe that although the loss had occurred 
outside the indemnity period, the Insureds actions have reduced the potential loss 
that would of [sic] occurred in the 12 months had the insured cut the crop in at the 
time short and not staggered repairs.
Y also said it was experiencing delays in sourcing repairs for the shed, as it required a 
specialist company to do so. It said there were very few available in the area, and that it kept 
the loss adjuster fully updated with its progress. So I think this shouldve also been taken into 
account by NFU when they were looking to restrict the losses to 12 months from when the 
damage occurred, as it wasnt possible for Y to source repairs straight away. 
Y also says that the loss adjuster failed to ever mention that there was a time limit on 
claiming for business interruption, or to advise them on the potential consequences of 
waiting to take its sheds out of production for repair, despite being kept updated of Ys plans 
and progress with the repairs. Had the loss adjuster told it about the time limit, I think its 
most likely that Y wouldve acted sooner to take both sheds out of production as soon as it 
could, so as not to lose out on any business losses that may extend beyond the 12-month 
indemnity period. 
I acknowledge that the 12-month indemnity period is set out in the policy document. But 
there were also numerous opportunities for NFUs loss adjuster to warn Y that any losses 
must be claimed within 12 months of the incident date. However, Y was never informed of 
this, despite it being reasonably foreseeable that it would incur losses outside the indemnity 
period if it delayed taking the sheds out of production. So Im not persuaded that NFU or 
their intermediaries have provided adequate guidance or assistance to Y in making its claim 
in these circumstances.
So, provided there are no other reasons for the claim not to be covered, Im satisfied it would 
be fair and reasonable for NFU to now reconsider Ys claim as though its losses fell within 
the 12-month indemnity period, given that it could have claimed for these if it had 
known/been advised to act sooner by NFU, rather than acting to mitigate its losses.
My final decision
For the reasons give above, I uphold this complaint and direct The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman