DRN-2129635
The complaint
Miss A complains that British Gas Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a home
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include its
associated plumbing and drainage company and others insofar as I hold that insurance
company responsible for their actions.
Miss A had a flat that she let out to a tenant. For a year from May 2019 she renewed her
British Gas policy for the flat. 
The three elements of insurance cover were for central heating, plumbing and drainage, and 
electrics. The renewal letter gave a breakdown of the cost of each element of cover, for 
example £68.95 for plumbing and drainage cover.
Each claim was subject to an excess of £50.00.
On 29 June 2019 the tenant discovered a water leak. So Miss A asked British Gas for help.
British Gas said she needed a new hot water cylinder and other work, but the policy didnt
cover the cost. British Gas (or strictly speaking a company associated with that insurance
company) quoted for the work as follows (including VAT):
Parts £1,350.00
Labour    £850.00
Total £2,200.00
Miss A accepted the quote and British Gas (or strictly speaking a company associated with
that insurance company) did the work in July 2019. But there was still a leak. There were
further visits and the tenant was without hot water.
British Gas invoiced a £50.00 excess which Miss A didnt pay. British Gas sent a debt
recovery letter but later waived the £50.00.
In November 2019 British Gas reimbursed Miss A £1,350.00. In December 2019, it offered
£150.00 compensation and offered to refund or rebate the plumbing and drainage premium
of £68.95 for that policy year.
Miss A complained that shed had no option but to agree to the tenant not paying the rent of
£1,200.00 for a month.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that British
Gas mistakes led directly to Miss A not receiving rent for the month, and a large amount of
stress and inconvenience.
He recommended that British Gas should pay Miss A:
1. £1,200.00 to cover loss of rent income; and
2. an additional £100.00 in compensation for inconvenience and upset.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss A 
and to British Gas on 4 August 2020. I summarise my findings:
I found it likely that the tenant was still obliged to pay the rent. I didnt accept that 
Miss A had no option but to allow him to withhold a months rent.
British Gas made an offer that I was minded to find fair and reasonable.
Subject to any further information from Miss A or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited (insofar as it hasnt already done so):
1. to refund or rebate the plumbing and drainage premium of £68.95 for the policy year 
from May 2019 to May 2020; and
2. to pay Miss A £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
British Gas hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Miss A disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
British Gas was unable to resolve the issue. It was responsible for poor 
workmanship, lack of response to queries, and health and safety concerns.
This caused the tenant unacceptable living conditions over several months  at times 
with no water.
The severity of the situation also put their life at risk with the water supply company 
advising her to ask the whole block to shut off the water supply at 11pm due to health 
and safety risks and fire hazards. This was requested without her being able to let 
other people in the block know when the issue would be resolved yet it was of no 
concern to British Gas.
The poor response times and lack of concern contributed to an enormous amount of 
strain for her, the tenant and the relationship between them.
The very reason she takes out insurance is to protect her from having to deal with 
this type of situation. This insurance should protect her and her tenant from the 
stresses of any emergencies and costs. It should not cost her additional money and 
stress when she trusted British Gas to do exactly what they implied having insurance 
with them would offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen the tenancy agreement between Miss A and the tenant. But I find it likely that
he was obliged to pay her rent without making any deduction.
From what Miss A and British Gas have each said, I find that there were more appointments
and telephone calls than there should have been.
From the tenants messages Ive seen that he was inconvenienced. But I find it likely that he
was still obliged to pay the rent. I dont accept that Miss A had no option but to allow him to
withhold a months rent.
For that reason, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to compensate Miss A 
for loss of rent.
Miss A was also inconvenienced. She had to take time off work during a probationary period
in a new job. She had to ask family members to cover appointments with British Gas. She
was also distressed by the tenants messages.
After the complaint British Gas didnt send a final response letter within eight weeks or at all.
But it made an offer that I find fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
I intend to direct British Gas to honour its offer insofar as it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I
direct British Gas Insurance Limited (insofar as it hasnt already done so):
1. to refund or rebate the plumbing and drainage premium of £68.95 for the policy year
from May 2019 to May 2020; and
2. to pay Miss A £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman