DRN-2178444
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance to 
them alongside a mortgage in 1998. 
 
What happened
The PPI that was sold covered Mr P only and cost £8.83 per month.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because when PPI was sold, Mr P
had a pre-existing medical condition. And he thought it would be more difficult for Mr P to
make a claim because of that medical condition.
Santander disagreed with that view. It said that Mr Ps pre-existing medical condition would
have been discussed when PPI was sold. It also said that it had no evidence of Mr Ps
medical condition.
Mr P subsequently provided a letter from his doctor to confirm his diagnosis and how long
hed had his medical condition. The complaint was passed to me and I asked our adjudicator
to find out from Mr P how his medical condition affected his day to day life and whether hed
had any time off sick because of it.
No substantive reply was received from Mrs and Mr P. I then issued a provisional decision in 
which I said:
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr P, but as things stand, I dont think this complaint should
be upheld. Ill explain why below.
The parties agree that this cover was sold during a face to face meeting. I cant know what
was said during that meeting. To help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked
at what Mrs and Mr P remember about the sale. And Ive also looked at some documentary
evidence thats available from the time.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mrs and Mr P would have known the cover was
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. In their initial complaint to
Santander, they said they felt pressured into taking the cover out. But in their PPI
questionnaire to this service, they said they didnt know they had cover. Its not entirely clear
to me how Mrs and Mr P could have recalled being pressured into buying PPI, but then not
also realise it had been sold to them. I do appreciate that its difficult to remember precisely
what happened over 30 years ago, which is when the sale in question took place.
Ive been provided with a copy of both the mortgage application and PPI application forms. I
think it would have been clear that the cover was a separate product to the mortgage. And
looking at how the PPI application form was worded, I think it was clear that Mrs and Mr P
would have known they just didnt have to fill it out if they didnt want the cover. I think that
what Mrs and Mr P were told during the meeting probably reflects what was in the
paperwork. It follows then that Im provisionally satisfied that Mrs and Mr P knew they could
have refused this policy if they didnt want it.
Ive treated this as an advised sale  so that means Santander had to make sure the cover
was suitable for Mrs and Mr P. To help me decide whether the PPI was suitable, Ive looked
at the terms and conditions. And Ive also considered at length what Mrs and Mr P told us
about their circumstances at the relevant time.
As I said above, the policy was set up to cover Mr P only. So if hed lost his job or was too
sick to work, the mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 24 months. It was
unclear to me how much sick pay Mr P had. I can see that he told Santander hed have
received more than six months full pay, but then in the PPI questionnaire, Mrs and Mr P said
they couldnt remember their sick pay entitlement.
In any event, I think its unlikely that Mr Ps sick pay would have lasted for longer than the 24
months the PPI would have paid out for if a successful claim was made. And Mrs and Mr P
told us that they didnt have any other means of meeting their mortgage repayments if Mr P
was out of work. So it follows that the cover would have offered benefits over and above Mrs
and Mr Ps existing means.
Ive next considered whether Mr P would have been affected by any of the policys
exclusions. I can see that he wouldnt have been able to claim if hed been off work because
of his pre-existing medical condition. But as things stand, I dont think this necessarily made
the policy unsuitable.
Our adjudicator asked for more information about whether it affected Mr Ps work and daily
living, but no response was received. From what I know about Mr Ps medical condition, it
was longstanding, but also said to be well-managed. And I can see that in his PPI
questionnaire to this service, Mr P said he didnt have a medical condition at the time PPI
was sold. From the limited information I have, it does not appear to me that Mr Ps medical
condition caused him to or was likely to cause him to have time off work. If I am wrong on
that point, I welcome any further information and/or evidence that the parties wish to provide
in response to this provisional decision.
I havent seen anything else unusual about Mr Ps employment circumstances that would
have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. It is important
for me to stress that Mrs and Mr Ps loan was secured on their home. So the consequences
of falling behind with those repayments were significant. Putting all these things together, Im
provisionally satisfied that the PPI was suitable for Mrs and Mr Ps circumstances.
Santander still had to make sure Mrs and Mr P had enough information about the cover so
they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept its
possible that the information Santander provided could have been better. But Ive set out
above why I think the cover could have been helpful at what would have no doubt been a
very stressful time if Mr P was out of work. And I think its most likely that they chose to buy
the policy  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. With that in mind, I dont think
more or better information about the PPI would have put Mrs and Mr P off buying it.
I appreciate this decision will be disappointing for Mrs and Mr P, but for the reasons set outabove, I dont currently think PPI was mis-sold.
I asked the parties to comment on how I was proposing to decide the complaint before 9 
September 2020. Mr and Mrs Ps representatives contacted us to say they would be in touch 
if they had a further response from their clients. No further response was received. No 
response was received from Santander. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
As neither party provided me with any further evidence or information to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
uphold this complaint. Santander does not need to take any further action in relation to it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman