DRN-3463952
The complaint
Mr I has complained about being given wrong information by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) regarding a rights issue by a company which Mr I held shares in. He feels he has 
lost out as a result of this and doesnt agree with the offer Barclays made to him.
What happened
Mr I held shares in Rolls Royce Holdings (RR). On 21 July 2020 he held 1429 shares at a 
total price of £4,025.25. On 3 September 2020 he bought a further 408 shares in RR for a 
total of £899.06.
On 1 October 2020 RR announced a rights issue where it offered 10 shares for every 3 
already held.
On 21 October 2020 Mr I confirmed with Barclays the date by which he needed to keep his 
shares in order to be eligible for participation in the rights issue. Barclays told him that as 
long as he held his shares at the end of the day on 23 October 2020, he would be able to 
take up his rights. Based on this Mr I decided to sell all his 1837 shares on 26 October 2020. 
He sold at a loss but was sure he would be able to recuperate this and make some profit by 
utilising the benefits available under the rights issue.
Mr I says he planned to rebuy 6123 share rights at the cost of £959.36 but he couldnt 
because he was given the wrong information by Barclays.
After giving Mr I the information and the actual date for eligibility had passed Barclays 
discovered that it had given Mr I, along with a number of other clients, the wrong information. 
The actual qualifying date was 27 October 2020 so by communicating an earlier date it 
meant all those affected had sold shares earlier therefore making them ineligible for the 
rights issue. 
Barclays contacted Mr I on 30 October 2020 to make him aware of the situation and offered 
to put him back into the position he would have been in had the shares not been sold.  
Barclays said it would buy back 1,837 shares and the 6,123 he would have received in the 
rights issue using the proceeds Mr I had received from the sale. This offer was time sensitive 
due to the rights issue and the fact that it was shares in RR  Barclays couldnt dictate to RR 
what it should do with shares.  Barclays also offered Mr I £250 for the distress and the 
inconvenience.
Mr I declined this offer and brought his complaint to this Service where it was assessed by 
one of our investigators. He was of the view that the offer Barclays had made was in line 
with the approach of this Service. He felt it put Mr I in as close a position to where he would 
have been had the error not occurred. He was also of the view that the offer being time 
sensitive was reasonable.
Mr I didnt agree with the assessment and was adamant that Barclays should pay him the 
compensation equivalent to what he would have received had the qualified for the rights 
issues and then went on to buy and sell the shares in the way he wanted to.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his initial outcome. So as no agreement could 
be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint can be upheld.
Much of what Mr I has said he should be compensated for is based on what he may have 
done with the shares. But this isnt enough for me to consider that Barclays needs to do 
more  because without any definite action there is nothing to quantify.
The reality is Mr I sold his shares and wasnt able to partake in the right issue because of the 
incorrect information Barclays had given him.
Therefore, to rectify the error the process would be to give him back the shares and the 
rights he lost by following the incorrect information.
This is what Barclays offered at the end of October 2020 and this would have allowed Mr I to 
do whatever he wanted with the shares whenever he wanted as would have been the case if 
no error had occurred. The offer is in line with the approach of this Service, so I am satisfied 
Barclays made the correct attempt to resolve the matter. Under this offer the calculations 
showed that the total Mr I would have made if he had taken up this offer would have been 
£3863.81. 
Furthermore, if Mr I had sold his sub rights he wouldnt have been entitled to re-elect for the 
rights after 28 October 2020. Customers had the option to retain their sub-rights and be 
eligible to take up shares at a cost of 32p per share or they could just sell the additional 
rights. So if his intention was to take up his rights he would have had to pay a total of 
£1,959.36 to have eligibility to these rights (this was his sub rights 6123x 32p) which 
evidence shows he didnt have in his account.
Therefore, in light of the above information, as well as taking account of the fact that 
Mr I made £4,625.28 by acting upon the wrong information it is clear that even though 
Barclays undoubtedly made a mistake Mr I has actually benefitted from this.
This is further supported by looking at what the calculations would be if the correct 
information had been given to Mr I assuming he would have sold the next day  28 October 
2020. The average price based on 28 October would have been 84.42 per share so if he 
sold his shares on this date he would have achieved £1,532.47. He could have sold his 
rights at 41.1p and would have achieved £2,516.55 therefore the total he would have made 
was £4,049.02. And as above he would still have had to arrange for £1,959.36 to be paid 
into his account to be eligible for the rights if he hadnt sold his sub rights on 28 October 
2020.
So it seems that whichever way this is looked at  thinking about the approach this service 
would normally use in complaints such as this - even though Barclays gave Mr I the wrong 
information he has actually ended up in a better position than if he had acted upon the 
correct information.I also cant ignore that Mr I continued to trade on the monies he received when he sold his 
shares the inflated price on 26 October 2020. 
So while it is disappointing to know that Barclays provided incorrect important information, 
I am satisfied the amount it offered in distress and inconvenience recognises this. I am also 
satisfied that it has attempted to resolve this matter in the best way possible. Mr I ultimately 
chose not to accept this within the required timeframes which in my view werent 
unreasonable given the nature of this transaction and the fact the shares were that of a 
different business to Barclays. 
I am therefore satisfied that Barclays has done all it should have to resolve this matter when 
it first arose. So I dont think it need do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman