DRN-3684493
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway (Moneyway). 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr S acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Moneyway. 
Mr S says he experienced problems with the car soon after acquiring it and took it back to 
the dealership a number of times for them to look at it. The dealership replaced the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) in October 2020 and the software was updated in November 2020. 
Mr S says he continued to experience problems with the vehicle after this repair but wasnt 
able to get the dealership to help. 
Mr S had the vehicle recovered to a local garage in December 2021 after it started shaking 
and smoking. The garage replaced an injector that they thought might have been at fault, but 
when the car was test driven after this repair, they confirmed it hadnt fixed the problem, and 
a new engine would be needed. 
Mr S complained to Moneyway in January 2022 about the quality of the car. Moneyway told 
Mr S hed need to provide an inspection report confirming whether the fault was present or 
developing at the time they supplied the car to him. 
Moneyway sent Mr S their final response to his complaint in March 2022. They said there 
was no evidence the problems with the engine were present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Mr S, and so they didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said hed 
had problems with the car since he got it, he felt they were linked, and he wanted to reject 
the car. Mr S told us in July 2022 that hed sold the car, and so he wanted Moneyway to 
cover the cost of repairs, which he said were around £4,000. 
Our investigator gave her view that the DPF repair in October 2020 and the engine problems 
in December 2021 didnt appear to be linked. She said Mr S had been able to drive the 
vehicle for some time and for a higher than average mileage before the engine problem 
became apparent. So, on the balance of probabilities, she thought the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr S, and she didnt ask Moneyway to do anything more. 
Mr S didnt agree, he said he doesnt think the DPF was actually replaced in October 2020, 
and hed had continuous problems with the car, but didnt realise he could complain to 
Moneyway before now. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Moneyway as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety, and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £9,000. It was around eight 
years old and had travelled around 58,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person 
acquires a used car like Mr S, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower 
than that of a new or younger/lower mileage used car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and 
this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a 
serious issue sooner, is higher. 
Mr S experienced problems with the car relatively soon after acquiring it, and Ive seen 
evidence that the DPF was replaced in October 2020, and a software upgrade was 
completed in November 2020. 
Mr S says he continued to experience problems after this date and questioned whether the 
DPF was actually replaced. Ive seen the invoice for the order of the parts and the job sheet 
for the work to fit them. Im persuaded by this evidence that the DPF replacement was 
completed.
I havent seen any evidence that this repair failed. Ive seen no evidence of any further 
diagnostic work, investigations, repairs, or Mr S otherwise taking the vehicle to a garage until 
December 2021. 
In December 2021 the garage that recovered the vehicle diagnosed an injector fault and 
fitted a new injector. But, when the car was test driven, they found the repair hadnt solved 
the problem, and so a new engine would be needed. 
I havent seen any evidence that the injector fault or the problem with the engine were 
related to the DPF replacement carried out some 11 months before. 
When Mr S acquired the car, itd travelled around 58,000 miles. In February 2021 it passed 
at MOT and had travelled around 69,000 miles. Its not clear what the mileage was in 
December 2021 when the car was recovered, but the garage that recovered the vehicle told Moneyway itd travelled 93,748 miles. The car also passed an MOT in May 2022 at 93,820 
miles. 
So, Mr S had been able to drive the car for around 11 months and at least 24,000 miles 
since the DPF replacement in October 2020. I think, if the earlier repair had failed, or the 
faults were linked, Mr S wouldnt have been able to use the vehicle for this length of time or 
cover this mileage. So, Im persuaded that the problems Mr S encountered in December 
2021 were not the result of a failed previous repair. 
Satisfactory quality also includes an element of durability. That is, the components of the car 
can be expected to function without any significant issue or problem for a reasonable period 
of time. Mr S used the car for around a year and a half, and travelled around 35,000 miles, 
before the fault in December 2021. I think this would be considered a reasonable period of 
time for a car which was eight years old (and had travelled around 58,000 miles) when it was 
supplied.
I think, that at 10 years old and having covered 93,000 miles, Mr Ss car was around the age 
when a reasonable person might start to expect that some relatively serious repairs may be 
needed. As a result, I find there was no durability issue with the car when it was supplied.
Whilst what has happened is unfortunate, it is the risk of owning an older and higher mileage 
second-hand car like this one. I appreciate that having a car that needs extensive repairs 
can be a stressful and expensive experience. That doesnt mean that Moneyway are 
responsible for the cost of repairs. 
I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that Mr Ss car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. Therefore, although Mr S has 
experienced a fault with his car, Moneyway are not responsible for the cost repairing the 
fault. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman