DRN-4325241
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) approved a conditional sale 
agreement for her that was unaffordable.
Mrs P is represented in this complaint by a claims management company but, for ease, Ill 
refer to Mrs P directly throughout my decision.
What happened
In May 2022, Mrs P acquired a used car, financed through an agreement with Moneybarn. 
The cash price of the car was £6,400. Mrs P put down a deposit of £1,000 with the balance 
of £5,400 provided as credit through the agreement. Mrs P was required to make 44 monthly 
repayments of £216.40. 
Mrs P fell behind by one payment in the first few months of taking the agreement out, telling 
Moneybarn this was due to poor budgeting. A short-term plan to clear the arrears over the 
following three months was agreed, after which Mrs P made her monthly repayments when 
due.
In January 2023, Mrs P complained to Moneybarn that the finance was unaffordable and that 
by approving the agreement, theyd treated her unfairly. She said even though she met the 
repayments, because of the finance being approved, this was at the expense of her repaying 
money owed elsewhere.
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. They said at the point of the application Mrs P 
told them she was employed, earning £2,250 a month. Moneybarn said Mrs Ps income was 
verified via a credit reference agency and they used statistical data and her existing 
borrowing commitments at the time to estimate the level of Mrs Ps non-discretionary 
expenditure. And they calculated she had a net monthly disposable income of around £900.
Moneybarn also said they completed a full credit search and while it showed Mrs P had 
defaulted on some previous borrowing, the most recent default was entered 21 months prior 
to the lending application and they could see she was paying back the amounts owed. 
Moneybarn also said that whilst County Court Judgements (CCJs) were also visible on the 
credit search, the most recent had been registered 35 months prior to the agreement.
Mrs P remained unhappy so, she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things, but he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said whilst he didnt think Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks, had 
they done, he thought they still wouldve approved lending to Mrs P. Our Investigator said 
after reviewing Mrs Ps income and expenditure, he was satisfied the monthly repayment 
was affordable and thought it was likely Moneybarn wouldve seen the same, so he didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong by approving the finance. 
Mrs P disagreed with our Investigators opinion saying her bank account statements showed 
multiple failed payments to her local council, suggesting she was suffering financial difficulty 
paying her priority bills.
Our Investigators opinion remained unchanged. As Mrs P remained unhappy and no 
agreeable resolution could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs P, so Ill 
explain why.
How we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is explained on our 
website. Its this approach Ive used when deciding Mrs Ps complaint. Moneybarn needed to 
ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly, which in practice means they needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for her 
before agreeing to provide the finance.
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the FCAs consumer credit 
sourcebook (CONC). Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant here, as  among other things  it 
talks about the need for businesses like Moneybarn to complete reasonable and 
proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to lend someone money. 
Ive considered these rules by asking the following questions:
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
Mrs P would be able to meet the repayments of the borrowing without experiencing 
significant adverse impact on her financial situation?
- If they did, was their decision to lend to Mrs P fair?
- If they didnt, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs P 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate in terms of the checks a business 
undertakes will vary depending on the details of the borrowing and the consumers specific 
circumstances at the time. 
Here, the total amount repayable under the agreement was around £10,500, with Mrs P 
committing to make 44 monthly repayments of £216.40. This was therefore a relatively 
significant and lengthy credit commitment for someone to enter into, so my starting point is 
that Id expect to see Moneybarn to have completed a thorough affordability check.
Moneybarn say relevant checks were completed because Mrs Ps credit report didnt cause 
them any concerns regarding her financial status. They say whilst shed defaulted on some 
accounts and they were aware of CCJs, these were historic, with the debt owed reducing 
and showing signs of improvement. Moneybarn also say that as a specialist lender, they 
provide finance to those who may not be able to obtain it from banks and other mainstream 
lenders due to their credit history. 
Moneybarn say they verified Mrs Ps income via a credit reference agency and they completed their own affordability assessment using a range of data including the verified 
income, the credit report data theyd gathered, and statistical expenditure data. Moneybarn 
also say they took into account Mrs Ps existing debt repayment commitments and factored 
in the allowance of a buffer to account for any other essential expenditure.
CONC does allow the use by businesses of statistical data when completing affordability 
assessments unless they have reason to suspect that a customers non-discretionary 
expenditure is significantly higher than described in the data.
But Moneybarn havent been able to provide me a copy of the credit search or the income 
check they completed at the time, rather just a summary of what they saw. And while Mrs P 
has provided a credit report to me, this isnt in full either, and doesnt show me full details 
such as payment data or any new lines of credit potentially applied for in the months prior to 
the agreement.
So, considering what Moneybarn say they saw at the time, alongside looking at the credit 
report provided to me by Mrs P now, its clear she had three active CCJs when applying for 
the agreement, but in the absence of seeing the full checks Moneybarn completed, I cant be 
certain what in any detail, Moneybarn saw. And therefore, I cant say proportionate checks 
were carried out.
I acknowledge Moneybarns comments they are a lender that specialises in lending to 
people who may have difficulty obtaining mainstream lending because of their credit history. 
However, that doesnt mean what they saw might not have given them some cause for 
concern, and based on what Ive seen I think they ought to have done more to assess the 
agreements affordability for Mrs P.
To do this I think Moneybarn ought to have tried to find out more about Mrs Ps income and 
committed expenditure outside of her active credit commitments. This is because they were 
asking her to commit to a significant monthly payment for a term of almost four years.
In summary Ive not seen Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks given the amount and 
duration of the loan and considering the results returned on Mrs Ps credit file.
If Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
I cant be sure what information and evidence Moneybarn wouldve asked for or received 
had it carried out a reasonable and proportionate check but as Ive said above, I think it 
would have involved them finding more out about Mrs Ps income and expenditure.
Ive looked at the bank statements for two accounts held by Mrs P covering the three months 
prior to the agreement being taken out. I understand Moneybarn didnt necessarily need to 
obtain bank statements specifically, but in the absence of any other information, I think they 
provide the best indication of Mrs Ps income and expenditure at the time.
The bank statements issued in March through to May 2022 show that most of Mrs Ps 
income was received via benefit payments from the government as opposed to from her 
employer, however her net income remained regular and averaged £1,900 a month. 
Taking into consideration the monthly average of the regular payments from Mrs Ps two 
accounts, I can see she paid around £670 towards rent and household bills, around £205 for 
vehicle tax and insurance, fuel, and other transport costs, and around £150 for television and 
mobile phone subscriptions. 
Mrs P also spent monthly on average around £175 on groceries, around £110 towards debt repayment and a further £50 to an existing motor finance company. As its not clear if this 
commitment ended when Mrs P took out the new agreement with Moneybarn, Ive included it 
in her committed expenditure. Finally, Mrs P paid on average £70 monthly to repay other 
credit commitments such as buy-now-pay-later agreements. Ive not seen any other regular 
commitments or non-discretionary expenditure from the statements for either of Mrs Ps 
bank accounts.
In summary, Ive seen Mrs P had on average around £1,430 of committed or non-
discretionary expenditure a month at the time of taking the agreement out. The monthly 
repayments for the agreement were £216.40, so this would have left Mrs P with around £250 
disposable income on average per month to cover any discretionary spending. Because of 
this, Im satisfied even if Moneybarn had done proportionate checks, its likely theyd have 
determined Mrs Ps income exceeded her non-discretionary expenditure and they couldve 
fairly decided to lend to her.
Im aware Mrs P notes her bank statements show multiple unpaid payments to priority bills 
which she says shows she was struggling financially. Whilst I can see that was the case, I 
can also see Mrs P made high levels of discretionary spending on items such as holidays, 
eating out and food delivery services. This pattern of spending supports my finding Mrs P did 
have sufficient disposable income at the time of taking the agreement out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman