DRN-2309058
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) irresponsibly gave him a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford. 
Mr B is represented in this complaint by his relative, but for ease Ill refer to their 
representations as if made by Mr B himself. 
What happened
In August 2018, Mr B acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement provided by 
BPF. The cash price of the car was £20,296 and Mr B paid a £400 deposit, with the 
remainder being financed by BPF. The finance agreement was for 49 months with a total 
repayable of around £28,000. The monthly repayments were around £424 with a final 
optional payment (if Mr B wanted to keep the car) of £7,200. 
Mr B quickly fell into arrears and eventually agreed to voluntary terminate the agreement. 
This left an outstanding balance of just under £12,000, which BPF are seeking repayment 
for. 
Mr B says the agreement was unaffordable and BPF didnt do enough to check his ability to 
repay. He said the amount of income declared on the application form was wrong and BPF 
should have tried to verify this. He was also unhappy that the dealership gave him a further 
loan of £1,000 to cover some of the cost of his car insurance.
BPF said the application for the conditional sale agreement was auto approved by their 
lending system based on the information Mr B had provided in his application and from the 
information BPF obtained from credit reference agencies. It said there was no requirement 
for it to verify Mr Bs income and was satisfied that the agreement appeared affordable. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that she didnt think 
BPF carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. This was because BPF ought to have 
tried to understand Mr Bs overall expenditure, not just his credit commitments. However, 
she thought that had BPF done this, it would still have likely concluded the lending was 
affordable. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did BPF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did BPF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mr B has been disadvantaged in any way by BPFs actions, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Did BPF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
BPF were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability 
to sustainably repay the borrowing. This is often referred to as an affordability check. This 
check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be concerned with whether 
Mr B could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific circumstances), rather 
than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter, is the risk posed to BPF as the 
lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an assessment of 
affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be. 
Ive considered that the total amount repayable on this agreement was quite large at just 
under £28,000. The monthly repayments were set at around £424 over 49 months. So, this 
was a relatively long term commitment and an expensive one. Ordinarily I would expect any 
borrower-focussed affordability check to have been quite thorough. 
BPF says it asked Mr B about his annual income which it says he declared to be £28,750 (or 
around £1,900 per month). It said it also carried out a credit check and that Mr B told them 
he was living at home with his parents. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit check BPF carried out. It shows that Mr B didnt have any 
significant credit commitments. It was limited to a current account, a mobile phone contract 
and three unsecured personal loans with a combined total owed of just under £2,500 and 
combined monthly repayments of £119. All of these credit commitments were managed well 
with no adverse information recorded. 
This left Mr B with a monthly disposable income of around £1,800 with which to cover the 
BPF finance payments, car insurance and running costs and any general living costs. Given Mr B was living at home with his parents its unlikely his general living costs would have 
been significant. There was also nothing to suggest Mr Bs stated salary might be incorrect 
or inflated based on everything else recorded about his employment on the application form. 
On this basis and in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think BPF have acted 
unreasonably in not verifying Mr Bs income. I cant see any reason why BPF ought to have 
questioned what Mr B had stated on the application form.
I do however think that BPF ought to have done more to understand Mr Bs expenditure. 
Outside of Mr Bs credit commitments, BPF didnt know what other committed expenditure 
Mr B had. Although he lived at home with his parents it was possible he still had other 
regular commitments  such as rent, food or petrol  and I think it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate to have taken this into consideration too. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
I dont know what questions or evidence BPF would have asked for if it had explored Mr Bs 
other committed expenditure in more detail. Weve asked Mr B to give us details of what his 
expenditure was at the time and Ive reviewed his bank statements from the time of the 
borrowing to get an understanding of what his commitments were likely to be. 
Im not suggesting BPF should have requested bank statements from Mr B. There isnt 
anything that would lead me to think that was necessary in the circumstances of this case. 
But in the absence of anything else, the statements and what Mr B has told us I think give a 
good indication of what BPF would likely have found out about his expenditure if theyd 
asked about it. 
Mr B says he didnt pay rent or contribute to any utility bills, nor can I see any of this type of 
expenditure on his account statements. It appears his mobile phone contract was around 
£50 per month and in addition to this and the credit commitments BPF found out about, 
Mr Bs committed expenditure was limited to petrol which was around £160 per month.
I think had BPF asked Mr B about his expenditure at the time of the application I think its 
likely this is what it would have found out. This means it would have shown to BPF that Mr B 
was left with around £1,600 in disposable income each month. I think this would have been 
more than sufficient to cover the costs of any insurance, car maintenance and other living 
costs such as food and clothing as well as the monthly repayments to BPF. For this reason, 
I dont think BPF have acted unfairly in lending to Mr B as I think reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have still likely shown it was affordable to Mr B. 
It seems Mr Bs monthly car insurance premium was exceptionally high at around £600 per 
month. But I dont think that would have been reasonably foreseeable to BPF and even if it 
was, it appeared he still had sufficient disposable income to comfortably meet that 
commitment too.
I recognise that the income recorded on Mr Bs application wasnt a true representation of 
his income and it was actually significantly less. And given Mr Bs true circumstances, this 
agreement was unaffordable to him. But BPF didnt know this and nor do I think they ought 
to have realised for the reasons Ive already given. Now that BPF knows that Mr B is in 
financial difficulty it needs to ensure it continues to treat him fairly when seeking to recover 
the outstanding balance. 
Did BPF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?Mr B says that he didnt declare his salary as £28,750 during the application process. While 
I accept thats possible, I havent been presented with anything persuasive to make me think 
its more likely than not that he didnt. On that basis I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to conclude that BPF has done anything wrong in relation to the application. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think BPF acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman