DRN-3695161
The complaint
Mrs Q complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA declined her claim for a refund under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 of her purchase of a mobile phone she says is 
faulty.
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs Q bought a mobile phone, financed with credit provided by PayPal. She 
says that this phone later stopped working properly (I will describe the alleged faults later). 
She took the phone to the retailer and the manufacturer to be examined, but both of them 
told her that they could find nothing wrong with it.
Mrs Q then approached PayPal, in June 2022. PayPal told her that as more than 180 days 
had passed since the purchase, she was no longer covered by PayPals buyer protection 
policy. Mrs Q accepted that, but asked PayPal to compensate her under section 75 instead. 
PayPal ignored that request, and simply re-iterated its earlier stance. So Mrs Q raised this 
complaint with our service, after which PayPal revised its position and accepted that she 
could raise a claim under section 75. But it still decided not to refund her, because it said 
there was no evidence that the phone was faulty, citing the findings of the retailer and the 
manufacturer. Our investigator agreed that this was a decision that PayPal was entitled to 
make.
Mrs Q did not accept the investigators conclusion. She made further submissions (which 
I will summarise in the next section), and asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is no longer in dispute that section 75 applies to Mrs Qs purchase. That section makes 
PayPal jointly and equally liable with the retailer for any breach of contract by the retailer at 
the point of sale. It was a statutory implied term of her contract to buy the phone that the 
phone would be fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality, including that it would be free of 
minor defects. So I have considered how PayPal dealt with Mrs Qs claim.
Where a fault is discovered within six months of the purchase, it may be presumed that the 
fault was present at the time of the purchase, unless the seller  or PayPal  can prove 
otherwise. After that, it is for the buyer to prove that the seller is liable for the fault. Our 
investigator explained this in her written opinion in September 2022.
When Mrs Q first contacted our service in June 2022, she said:
In March / April of this year the phone started to malfunction.
She went on to say that the issue was that sometimes when she made a call, the person she 
was speaking to couldnt hear her as the calls kept breaking up. She mentioned no other 
faults. Mrs Q told PayPal the same thing when she complained to them, except that she said 
the problems had begun in February 2022 (but I do not think that such a minor difference is 
significant).
However, after receiving our investigators decision in September, Mrs Q told us she had 
remembered some further details. The phone had actually begun to malfunction much 
earlier, starting a couple of weeks after she bought it. The phone had frozen and become 
unresponsive. It had called an emergency number and she had been unable to end the call. 
She sent us a video she had taken of this happening in July 2021. She told us that she had 
taken the phone to the retailer four times during the six months after the sale. But each time 
she did that, the problem had resolved itself by the time she got there, and so they were 
unable to diagnose the fault.
When PayPal was dealing with her section 75 claim, it was only aware of what Mrs Q had 
reported to it at the time. That was poor quality calls, starting over a year after the purchase. 
PayPal had not been asked to consider anything else. As I have said, the retailer and the 
manufacturer had both inspected the phone and found nothing wrong with it, and PayPal 
knew that. Presented with this evidence, I find it unsurprising that PayPal declined her claim. 
I would have too. So I cannot find fault with PayPals decision.
PayPal did make one mistake when it dealt with Mrs Qs claim. It should have treated it as a 
claim under section 75 in the first place, instead of insisting that there was nothing it could do 
because its buyer protection policy no longer applied. So I have considered whether I should 
uphold this complaint because of that. However, I do not think that this error would have 
made a difference to what happened afterwards. PayPal would still have declined Mrs Qs 
section 75 claim, and I think she would still have brought this complaint to our service. So 
I do not think it is necessary to award compensation for that mistake.
I have gone on to consider the new information Mrs Q gave us in September. However, I am 
afraid that I do not find it persuasive or credible. It does not seem likely to me that Mrs Q just 
forgot a very significant fault had happened, and forgot that she had a video of that fault 
occurring, and also forgot that the problems had begun only a couple of weeks after she 
bought the phone instead of 13 or 14 months later, and forgot that she had visited the 
retailer about those faults four times in the first six months. These recent recollections 
appear to have been submitted in response to what the investigator said in her opinion. 
I think if they were true she would have included them in her original claim to PayPal, and in 
her original complaint to us. So I am satisfied that no breach of contract occurred.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023. But as this decision is final, we will not enter into 
any further correspondence about the merits of this complaint. If we do not hear from her, 
then we will presume that she rejects this decision.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman