DRN-3688345
The complaint
H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt open a sterling account for it to enable its USD 
currency account to remain open.
H is represented by its director, Mr O.
What happened
Lloyds contacted H in July 2021 explaining that they intended to close the currency account 
it held with them. Lloyds explained that the only way to keep this account open would be for 
H to open a new sterling account with them.
Mr O attempted to open a sterling account for H, but the application wasnt successful, so Mr 
O complained to Lloyds in October 2021.
Lloyds looked into the complaint and initially agreed that they shouldnt have closed an 
historic sterling account H held with them. They explained a dormancy marker had been 
applied to the currency account but that the account was still open. They provided a link with 
that email to an application form for a new sterling account to be opened.
Mr O told Lloyds that he was unable to complete the application form online without entering 
a UK telephone number. So, Lloyds looked into the matter again. They issued a 
supplementary response to the complaint in January 2022, explaining that a UK based point 
of contact was required to progress the application. A representative of H responded to say 
Hs UK based accountant had agreed to be its point of contact.
A week later, Lloyds wrote to H explaining that the closure of the currency account would go 
ahead on 23 March 2022, approximately two months from the date of that correspondence.
Mr O contacted Lloyds in February 2022 explaining he was still unable to open a sterling 
account despite providing a UK telephone number. Lloyds explained that the information 
available on Companies House for the shareholders of H showed that they did not meet 
Lloyds application criteria. They reconfirmed the date on which the currency account would 
close and apologised for the conflicting information H had received on the matter.
Mr O was unhappy with Lloyds response, so he brought Hs complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter but he didnt think Lloyds had done anything 
wrong. Mr O didnt agree so the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained my reasons below.
In Lloyds letter to Mr O dated 13 January 2022, they explain that they need a UK based 
point of contact to progress the application as the information held on Companies House for 
H shows that Hs person(s) of significant control are not based in the UK. Lloyds go on to 
provide a contact phone number for Mr O to call to discuss the matter further. 
A representative of H, Mr R, responded to Lloyds email providing the contact details for Hs 
UK based accountant who had agreed to be its point of contact. However, this email address 
is not monitored and the email itself states, in capital letters, please do not reply to this 
email. 
As a result, I cant say that Lloyds had ever seen this information to be able to clarify to H 
that providing a point of contact was not enough in this instance. Lloyds application criteria 
required a person of significant control for H to be based in the UK, with their information 
appearing on Hs record on Companies House. Lloyds provided a phone number in this 
letter for H to call to discuss the options available to it, but I cant see that this option was 
followed up by any representative of H.
In addition, Lloyds follow up letter in February 2022 reiterates that the information available 
on Companies House for the shareholders of H showed that they did not meet Lloyds 
application criteria. So, Ive considered whether I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
decline the application on that basis. 
Banks make decisions about which accounts they will open based on their own criteria for 
account opening. Whilst all banks processes will vary, when they receive an application, 
they must follow their own internal processes for all customers and mustnt discriminate or 
otherwise process an application unfairly. 
The information Lloyds provided to us shows that they processed Hs application in line with 
their internal process, as they would any other application. Having reviewed this information, 
Im satisfied that they followed their internal process and the reason for declining the 
application was reasonable.
Lloyds are entitled to make a commercial decision about what accounts they choose to 
open, and I cant interfere with this decision. So, I cant say that Lloyds have treated H 
unfairly here.
For completeness, I note that in the initial letter Lloyds sent to H they apologised for closing 
a sterling account that H had previously held with them. However, this was an historic 
account which was closed almost twenty years earlier, so I cant say that wouldve had any 
bearing on the closure of the currency account. However, I do think Lloyds caused confusion 
by mentioning this account in their original final response letter.
I know that my findings will be disappointing for the directors of H, but I havent found that 
Lloyds have treated H unfairly in either the application process or in declining to open the 
account. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to take any action here.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Tara RichardsonOmbudsman