DRN-3415033
The complaint
In summary, Mr G complains that James Hay Administration Company Ltd (JH), didnt 
process his request for an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) payment 
before the end of the 2020/2021 tax year. 
In bringing his complaint, Mr G is represented by his financial adviser that I will refer to as F. 
What happened
On 15 March 2021, F sent a benefit payment form for a UFPLS payment to JH on behalf of 
Mr G. This was sent to JH by e-mail at 16.14.
Two weeks following the request, Mr G hadnt received the payment. F contacted JH to find 
out what had happened to the payment. It investigated and told F that as the request had 
been made after the cut-off time of 4pm, it couldnt be processed. JH went on to say that the 
incorrect cut-off time had been put on its website by its marketing team. 
F then made a complaint to JH on behalf of Mr G. It said that JHs website as of 11 May 
2021, showed that the cut-off date was 18 March 2021.
JH didnt uphold the complaint. It said this was because there was no valuation attached to 
the payment request that was sent to it on 15 March 2021. It also said that as a UFPLS 
payment had been requested, the cut-off date F had referred to did not apply. And it wasnt 
guaranteed that payment would be made in time for the tax year end.
When JH provided its file to this service, it set out a summary of its position. In summary it 
said:
F had sent an instruction via its secure messaging system on 15 March 2021. The 
instruction was a signed benefit payment form for UFPLS. 
Its website pages explained in respect of new benefit payments for UFPLS that to 
enable benefits to be paid benefit payment forms for advised cases, needed to be 
received in its offices by 5pm on Monday 15 March, along with relevant supporting 
documentation (including a valuation). 
It didnt agree with Fs argument that a valuation shouldnt be necessary as JH could 
access the information from its records. It thought it was an advisers responsibility to 
check the pension records and produce a valuation and check if that was sufficient 
for taking UFPLS.
It said JH was entitled to ask for information it thought was required to ensure the 
smooth running of its administration process. 
The case was reviewed by one of our investigators. They asked JH for further information. It 
sent them a copy of its website page for the time the payment request was made, which set 
out what was required for a UFPLS payment. This said:
To enable benefits to be set up in the current tax year, Benefit Payment Forms for advised
cases need to be received in our offices by 5pm on Monday 15 March UFPLS along with
the relevant supporting documentation (including an up to date valuation)
The investigator said JH couldnt explain why F hadnt been told that an up to date valuation 
was needed. They concluded that confusing information had been given to F. But JHs 
website had set out what was required for a UFPLS payment to be made. As a valuation 
hadnt been provided, they didnt think JH had done anything wrong.
F didnt agree. In summary it said:
Mr G had made two UFPLS requests in 2020 which were submitted without a 
valuation and had been processed without a valuation.
It had chased the request after 12 days and if there had been an issue JH had time 
to inform it so remedial action could have been taken.
A reply had been sent on 22 March 2021 by JH together with a valuation. There was 
no mention about the need to submit a valuation.
No reference to a valuation had been given prior to the investigation by the 
investigator.
No issue was flagged in the 12 working days after the submission.
The investigator passed Fs comments to JH to respond to. In summary, JH said:
It thought the comment on two previous payments having been made was 
immaterial, as a valid instruction in respect of the request complained about wasnt 
received.
It thought it was entitled to ask for what reasonable information it thought was 
required to ensure the smooth operation of its administration process. It required the 
adviser to check the pension records, produce a valuation and make a decision as to 
whether the valuation was sufficient to take the UFPLS that was being requested.  
Sending an illustration was not a notice that JH could fulfil an (invalid) instruction sent 
earlier. It maintained that a valid instruction hadnt been made in time.
The investigator informed the parties that the case was being referred to an ombudsman for 
review. In response, F provided the original benefit payment form signed by Mr G and a fact 
sheet from JH that provided information about accessing a pension with JH. 
It said that a payment request made after April 2021 on behalf of Mr G had been paid. So, 
there had been 3 occasions when payments had been made without the need for a 
valuation. It also said that the only request for a valuation on the benefit payment form 
appeared to be in respect of property held in the SIPP. And the checklist made no mention 
of a valuation being needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
In assessing Mr Gs complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key issues that are 
most relevant to the complaint. As a result, I wont necessarily have addressed every point 
that has been made on his behalf. I dont intend to offend Mr G by not doing so or mean any 
disrespect to him in taking this approach  but my approach reflects the informal nature of 
our service.Its not in dispute that JH made a mistake with the information it provided on its website 
about the cut-off time for submitting a new benefit payment request. But Im not persuaded 
that this was the reason why Mr Gs application wasnt processed before the end of the tax 
year. 
I say this because I think from the information I have, that not all of the requirements for the 
UFPLS payment to be made were met when F submitted the benefit payment form in March 
2021. JH has provided copies of the published pages from its adviser section for the 
2020/2021 tax year section, that appeared on its website. There is a specific section on new 
benefit payments for UFPLS. Although the page sets out what JH accepts was an incorrect 
time by which any form had to be submitted, it also explains that all relevant supporting 
documentation (including an up to date valuation) needed to be submitted. And it appears to 
be accepted by F that a valuation wasnt submitted with the benefit application form. 
Ive no reason to doubt that the website pages JH has provided arent what was on its 
website at the time the benefit application was made on 15 March 2021. And F doesnt 
appear to dispute that. I dont think it is unusual or unreasonable for financial businesses 
such as JH, to set specific requirements and deadlines in respect of the processing of 
payments/contributions at the end of a tax year. This is normally a busy period for financial 
businesses, and they not unreasonably, often have specific procedures in place at times 
when there are higher volumes of work for them to process.
F has said that there was no indication on the benefit payment form or checklist that a 
valuation was required other than in respect of property. Or that other documentation 
provided by JH indicated that a valuation was needed. Its also said that Mr G didnt have 
property in his SIPP, so one wasnt needed. Its referenced UFPLS payments made to Mr G 
by JH in support of its arguments that a valuation wasnt needed. And it said it shouldnt 
have to search for information buried on JHs website.
F has said it submitted the payment request well ahead of the end of the 2020/2021 tax 
year. It also said that JHs website stated a cut-off date of 18 March 2021, for instructions for 
payments to be made before the end of the tax year. And it thinks there was time for 
remedial action to be taken.
Ive thought carefully about Fs submissions. Considering what it has said, I think it is more 
likely than not that F looked at JHs website to check the payment cut-off dates. So, I think 
this shows it realised it needed to check the website for important information such as cut-off 
dates, which would in my opinion, be very relevant with the end of the tax year approaching. 
And I think it would be a sensible thing for an adviser or customer to do, when wanting to 
withdraw money as the end of a tax year approached.
The cut-off date F referred to and provided a copy of the website page for, was in respect of 
income payments. But the payment made on behalf of Mr G wasnt an income payment, it 
was a new benefit payment for UFPLS, which is a different type of payment from one where 
regular income payments are being taken. So, I dont think the website page F has referred 
to was relevant to the request it made on behalf of Mr G. But as Ive said, I do think it shows 
F was aware that important information it needed to know, would be on JHs website. 
As Ive already said, Im satisfied that the section on JHs website in respect of UFPLS 
benefit payments, made it clear that a valuation was required. I think if it meant this was only 
needed where there was property held in the SIPP, it would specifically say that. But it didnt. 
I accept that the forms and documents F has referred to, dont refer to a valuation being 
required, and that previous UFPLS payments and a subsequent payment had been made without one. But I dont think in this particular case that means it was unnecessary or 
unreasonable of JH to require a valuation, as part of its process at the end of the tax year. It 
seems to me there could easily have been operational reasons it asked for that information 
given the volumes of work requests it was likely to experience at that time of year. And 
requesting a pension valuation when a payment such as this one was being made, doesnt 
seem to me to be an unreasonable request. 
Also, I dont agree with what F has said about what it thinks would have been the difficulties 
in finding information on JHs website. I say this because the website pages Ive seen have a 
section that appears to be specifically dedicated to providing information at the tax year end 
and provides information about tax year end deadlines. And I dont think the relevant 
information would be difficult to find on the website or that it was situated in an obscure 
section.  And as Ive explained, I think that information was something F ought reasonably to 
have been aware of. 
F has also argued that if JH had contacted it, remedial action could have been taken. I dont 
think this would have made a difference. Even if JH had contacted F to say that a valuation 
was required, the deadline had passed. And it seems to me unlikely that a payment would 
have been made before the end of the tax year, taking into account JHs deadlines and 
payment processes for the tax year end.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman