DRN-2497394
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
has unfairly declined their claim for storm damage under their building insurance policy for 
the collapse of their boundary wall.
What happened
During a storm in February 2020, (storm Ciara), part of the boundary wall at Mr and Mrs Ms 
property was blown over. They made a claim to LV and it instructed a surveying company to 
inspect the damage and the company reported as follows: 
Upon viewing the fallen wall I observed the following: original structure was not correctly 
supported by pillars at repeating intervals. The wall length was 12 metres (with a height of 2 
Metres) and there were no supporting pillars along this entire length. The brick wall was built 
with a single brick width along its entirety. There are fairly newly built flower beds along the 
wall. These were built at date much later than the original wall (the brick colour indicates 
newer installation) the flower beds were built incorporating the existing wall as the back
of them. The original wall was incorporated as a retaining wall and lacked weep holes to 
prevent hydroscopic pressure from building. The weight of the sodden earth together with 
the plants/roots within it would have created a pressure against an already inadequately built 
wall. In addition, trellis was attached to the wall and any plants growing against it and up it 
would have further compromised the walls structural strength. In my opinion, the main factor 
to the wall falling down is the pressure caused by the vegetation and earth which it had not 
been built to withstand.
Based on the report, LV turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It said that the walls should be 
able to withstand different weather conditions and would need maintenance to prevent 
damage from being caused and that wear and tear wasn't covered by the policy.
LV agreed that there were storm conditions at the relevant time. They didnt however 
consider that the damage was consistent with damage a storm typically causes and wasnt 
the main cause of damage. They considered that the storm had merely highlighted pre-
existing issues with the wall.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with LVs decision and referred the matter to this Service.
Our Investigator was of the view that LV had acted reasonably in declining the claim for the 
following reasons; I believe its reasonable for LV to rely on the surveyors report when 
considering this claim.
I say this because LV have relied on a physical inspection of the wall and the photographic
evidence provided. Ive looked at the surveyors report and the pictures. I believe the 
findings of the surveyor are reasonable.
In the terms and conditions of the policy, it states wear and tear isnt covered. I think its fair 
and reasonable for LV to say that the damage caused over time by the weather, is wear and 
tear and so isnt covered.
In response to the decision to decline the claim, you said the wall had stood for 40 years. 
And you claim the flower bed added support to the base of the wall. As Ive explained above, 
the surveyors opinion was the earth and plants in the flower bed compromised the walls 
structural strength over the years.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the Investigators findings and the matter has therefore been 
passed to me in my role as Ombudsman to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that LV was not acting unfairly or unreasonably in turning down 
Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy covers loss or damage to buildings and walls caused by 
storm and flood.
The policy also has a general exclusion clause in relation to anything which happens 
gradually, including deterioration or wear and tear or which is due to faulty design. The 
policy-holder must also maintain their property in good condition.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
- Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
- Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
- Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
LV doesnt dispute that there were storm conditions around the date of the claim. Ive looked 
at the local weather report and I can see that on the day of the claimed damage, wind 
speeds reached 61mph and there was rainfall of 17.2mm over a 24-hour period. LV had 
records that suggest that wind speeds reached 68mph with rainfall of 18.4 mm. Im satisfied 
therefore that there were prevailing storm conditions at the relevant time.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Mr and Mrs M claimed for damage to a section of wall which collapsed during storm 
conditions. Given the high wind speeds and the substantial rainfall recorded at the time and 
the nature of what happened, I think the damage is consistent with storm damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The key question for me to decide therefore is whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. In this case, Ive received two conflicting views. The view from LVs appointed 
surveying company attributes the damage to poor construction technique, age and wear and 
tear, which isnt covered by the policy as well as pressure created by a flower-bed at the base of the wall. The view from Mr and Mrs M and their representative is that the wall had 
been properly maintained and attributes the cause to the unusually heavy rainfall and 
windspeed. I now need to decide which view I find the most persuasive in the light of the 
available evidence.
Mr and Mrs M and their representative provided detailed observations regarding the 
remaining sections of wall and the collapsed bricks and debris and described the 
construction of the wall in some detail and referred to the presence of foundations. The 
representative also provided additional photographic evidence to show similar wall 
construction in the locality.
In a subsequent letter, the representative provided further submissions as follows; -
- The Investigators view referred to the Surveyors report, however two 
representatives of the surveying company attended. He said that the question asked 
as to whether either of them had a professional qualification was avoided.
- The representatives were on site for no more than 10 minutes and they didnt want to 
discuss any aspect with Mr and Mrs M before departing.
- He questioned LVs professionalism as it originally declined the claim on the basis 
that storm conditions were not prevalent but when challenged, it changed its position.
- The representative enclosed a further copy of the photograph which showed similar 
wall construction in the locality. He said that the wall derived support from an 
adjoining wall, which was also the case with Mr and Mrs Ms boundary.
- With regard to the flower bed, he stated: that: -
oThe flower beds were constructed with a wall against the boundary wall (as 
recommended by the builder) so that soil was not saturating its base
oEarth within the flower beds could drain into the soil
oWeep holes were incorporated into the garden facing wall of the flower beds 
to allow excessive rainfall to drain 
oPhotos show the lighter shade of the flower bed brickwork.
and that; The construction of the flower beds added support to the boundary wall: 
they did not weaken it.
- He was of the view that the proximate cause of the collapse was the storm which 
brought down a wall which had stood for 40 odd years.
- Finally, he said that the contention that the wall had been compromised was without 
foundation and wrong.
Im mindful that LVs report followed a visual inspection of the site and the wall. The opinion 
of the author was that the damage was due to lack of maintenance and wear and tear. That 
in itself would not have been sufficiently persuasive, as the report was brief, had not been 
signed and did not give the professional qualifications of the author. 
The report does include a number of photographs however. These have been helpful in 
enabling me to come to a conclusion about the cause of the damage. I have also taken into 
account all other surrounding evidence, including the information which Mr and Mrs M and 
their representative have helpfully supplied.
From the available evidence, Ive noted that the boundary wall had suffered wear and tear 
over the period of several decades, it was generally single brick width and the green discolouration of bricks at the base of the wall and evidence of failing mortar showed that the 
wall was no longer sufficiently robust to withstand much force. 
Theres evidence of some form of perpendicular brick support and staggered wall 
construction as stated by Mr and Mrs Ms representative and I do not therefore agree with 
the entirety of the surveying companys report. On balance however, I do think that the 
deterioration and wear and tear and unusual construction means that the wall had reached 
the end of its useful life.
Im not satisfied that the apparent trellis work and trailing plant growth will have had a 
significant impact upon the integrity of the wall. I do however agree that the photographic 
evidence shows that that the flower bed would have increased pressure upon and 
compromised the integrity of the wall. This would particularly be the case when compacted 
and saturated with water following winter conditions, despite the measures taken in its 
construction as described by Mr and Mrs Ms representative.
This is a finely balanced matter. On the basis of all the evidence Ive seen however, I cannot 
say that LV have been unfair or unreasonable in applying the wording of the policy in the 
way that they have and in declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I know that this will come as a 
disappointment for Mr and Mrs M and I appreciate the time and trouble which they and their 
representative have taken in communicating with this Service.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the main cause of the damage to Mr and Mrs Ms boundary 
wall was storm Ciara. I find that the main causes of the damage were due to its age, gradual 
deterioration, wear and tear and exacerbated by the pressure created by the existence of the 
flower-bed at its base.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman