DRN-4447593
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way in which AWP P&C SA handled a claim made under his travel
insurance policy (the policy).
All reference to AWP includes its claims handlers.
What happened
Whilst abroad on an activity-based holiday in September 2022, Mr B suffered bodily injuries
when falling off his bike. He was taken to hospital and underwent surgery.
Mr B said that due to surgery and the type of injuries sustained, he wasnt able to return
home on his scheduled flight. He says he was advised by AWP that he must fly home
business class so that his leg could be sufficiently elevated.
Mr B made a claim on the policy to cover certain costs including damage to personal effects,
his out-of-pocket expenses including his return flight home and some medical costs hed
personally paid for. There were also other medical costs which he hadnt paid but remained
outstanding.
In or around early 2023, AWP agreed to cover certain costs. However, there were several
aspects of his claim which AWP didnt comment on, including:
- medical bills Mr B personally paid for
- outstanding medical bills Mr B was being chased for
- the cost of his return flight (business class)
And although AWP had, in principle, agreed that Mr Bs holiday had, in effect, been curtailed
due to his injuries and being hospitalised, the curtailment claim remained outstanding.
Unhappy with his claim not being settled in full and the delay in receiving payment, Mr B
brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld his complaint. He recommended
AWP to pay:
- the curtailment claim.
- the outstanding medical bills personally paid by Mr B around £1,500.
- the cost of the return flight (business class) less the cost of the original flight Mr B
had booked to return to the UK which AWP had already reimbursed him for.
- simple interest at a rate of 8% per year on the sums set out above from 6 December
2022 (the date on which our investigator said the claim should have been accepted
by) to the date on which the payments are made.
Our investigator also recommended AWP to:
- make contact with the medical facility/debt collectors and directly pay the outstanding
medical bills Mr B was still being chased about.
- pay Mr B £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr B accepted our investigators view. AWP didnt provide a substantive reply, so the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
At the end of September 2023, AWP wrote to Mr B saying that it has arranged payment to
be sent to Mr B for a little under £7,000 representing the curtailment claim, cost of the
business class flight and 8% simple interest on those amounts. So, these costs were no
longer in dispute. However, Mr B says hes yet to receive payment into his current account.
Our investigator asked AWP to confirm whether his view had been accepted and whether it
agreed his remaining recommendations to put things right. AWP didnt provide a substantive
response. 
I issued my provisional decision in October 2023, explaining why I was also intending to 
uphold the complaint. As matters had progressed since the date of our investigators view, I 
wanted to give the parties an opportunity to reply.
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below. 
 

AWP has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle insurance
claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
Many of the claims made by Mr B have either now been settled  or agreed to be settled - by
AWP. 
Im satisfied the only remaining unpaid claims are medical bills Mr B has personally
paid for and outstanding medical bills hes still being chased for. AWP hasnt confirmed
whether it agrees that these costs are covered under the policy or whether theyre declined
(and why).
Outstanding medical expenses
AWP hasnt provided a substantive response to our investigators view, recommending AWP
reimburse the outstanding medical bills personally paid by Mr B (around £1,500) together
with interest and to contact the medical facility to arrange paying the outstanding medical
bills Mr B is still being chased for.
However, AWP has very recently said  because the claims for curtailment and the cost of
the business class return flight have more recently been accepted and paid  this suggests
its agents have accepted our investigators view regarding his other recommendations.
However, it has escalated this issue to its agents to confirm.
Im satisfied AWP has had sufficient opportunity to provide a response and it wouldnt be fair
and reasonable for me to delay determining the remaining aspects of Mr Bs complaint.
The emergency medical and other expenses section of the policy is set out at section B of
the policy terms and conditions.
It says AWP will pay the following expenses (up to the policy limit and subject to the other
terms of the policy) which are necessarily incurred as a result of the policyholder suffering
unforeseen bodily injury, illness, disease and/or compulsory quarantine:Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance and nursing fees and charges
outside your home country.
AWP hasnt said that the medical costs being claimed under the policy by Mr B arent
covered under the policy. Nor has it raised any concerns about the validity of the medical
costs  or amounts - being claimed which Mr B has provided receipts for.
And given that AWP has accepted and paid the other aspects of Mr Bs claim  including
extended accommodation and repatriation costs - I think its reasonable to assume that there
arent any general exclusions relevant to the outstanding aspects of the claim relating to
medical costs. And as the other aspects of the claim have been paid in full, in line with the
policy terms, I also think its reasonable to assume that AWP hasnt sought to proportionally
settle the claim for any reason.
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to now pay the outstanding medical
expenses.
The overall service provided by AWP
Im satisfied that AWPs service should have been better when handling Mr Bs claim.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied there were times AWP didnt get back to Mr B as promptly
as it reasonably should have (or at all) after he provided documentary evidence in support of
his claim and asked questions. Further, after it agreed to accept some claims in early 2023,
it didnt respond to Mr Bs questions about the status of the other costs hed claimed for and
why they werent included in the sums AWP had agreed to cover.
Mr B submitted his claim in October 2022 and from what Ive seen Im satisfied that he
promptly provided further information to AWP as requested. It then took around three
months for AWP to accept part of his claim. I think thats too long in the circumstances.
Other costs werent agreed to be paid until September 2023  almost a year after Mr B
submitted his claim. Im satisfied theres no reasonable explanation for this delay and I dont
think AWP handled Mr Bs claim as promptly as it shouldve.
Mr Bs total out of pocket expenses were significant and he says this put him and his partner
under considerable financial pressure considering that they were due to complete the
purchase of a property in early 2023. And that they had to ask friends and family for financial
support due to the delay in receiving the money from AWP. Ive got no reason to doubt what
he says about that, and I accept what he says.
Im persuaded that AWPs delay in handling Mr Bs claim and delays in making payment for
the claims it has now accepted as being covered, would have unnecessarily exacerbated an
already stressful time for Mr B. And this wouldve been made worse by not receiving
answers to the questions he put to AWP, including the status of the significant costs that
hed claimed for.
Mr B is still being chased for the outstanding medical bills which havent yet been paid, and I
accept this would be worrying for him as he didnt know whether these would be paid under
the policy.
Im satisfied £400 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr B over
several months.
.Mr B replied accepting my provisional decision. AWP didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any new information from the parties, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
For this reason, and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is 
set out above and forms part of this final decision), I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which the Financial Ombudsman Service notifies AWP that
Mr B accepts my final decision, I direct AWP to:
A. pay the curtailment claim, which in its email to Mr B dated 29 September 2023 AWP
has calculated to be around £2,040 (if this hasnt already been paid by AWP into Mr
Bs current account).
B. pay the cost of the Mr Bs business class flight back to the UK, which AWP has
calculated to be around £4,365 in its email to Mr B dated 29 September 2023 (if this
hasnt already been paid by AWP into Mr Bs current account).
C. pay the outstanding medical costs personally incurred by Mr B and claimed by him
under the policy (around £1,500) less any excess due to be paid by Mr B.
D. pay an amount to reflect simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from 6 December
2022 (the date on which AWP has accepted as the date the claim should have been
assessed by)  in respect of the amounts in A, B and C above - to the date on which
those costs are or have been settled by AWP.
E. contact the medical facility/debt collector agency about the outstanding medical bills
Mr B is being chased for and to settle those bills (I understand this to be around
£20,000).
F. pay compensation to Mr B for distress and inconvenience in the sum of £400.
If AWP considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any
interest paid in respect of (D) above, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way Mr B can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman