DRN-2802801
The complaint
Mr M complained because Lloyds Bank PLC refused to refund him for six transactions which 
he said he didnt make. He also wanted more compensation than the £25 compensation 
which Lloyds gave him for service issues connected with the complaint.
What happened
On 6 January 2021, Mr M rang Lloyds to say that on 23 December 2020, six transactions 
had been debited to his current account, which he hadnt made. These transactions had 
been made using Mr Ms contactless debit card and totalled £137.74. Mr M told Lloyds that 
he still had the card. He said no-one else had access to it, and he hadnt let anyone else use 
it. He lived in shared accommodation, but his room was locked.
Mr M had used the card himself at 15:26. The first disputed transaction had taken place at 
15:39, and the last one at 18:03. There were two transactions in the middle of the six 
disputed ones, which Mr M didnt dispute. One was a £40 cash withdrawal after the fourth 
disputed transaction. The other was a contactless payment to a shop for £9.75, ten minutes 
before the last disputed transaction. 
Lloyds didnt agree to refund Mr M for the disputed transactions, though it paid Mr M £25 
which it said was for poor service. In its final response, Lloyds explained that there had been 
no point of compromise  in other words, no way for a fraudster to be able to carry out the 
withdrawals on 23 December. Lloyds also pointed out that Mr M had still had the card in his 
possession when hed phoned Lloyds. It said it was confident it had made the right decision 
to decline Mr Ms claim.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said he didnt know how the 
transactions had happened, though they were all in the city centre where he lived, and he 
recognised most of the shops. Mr M also said that hed spent over four hours on the phone, 
and Lloyds wouldnt take his £10 phone costs into account because his phone statement 
didnt show the costs. Mr M also said hed told Lloyds he was vulnerable because of his 
mental health, and Lloyds had then made him financially vulnerable too. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said that he could see that Mr M had 
made a genuine transaction 13 minutes before the first disputed transaction. And Mr M had 
confirmed hed made a cash withdrawal 50 minutes later. So someone would have had to 
steal the card, use it for 50 minutes and then return it without Mr M realising.
And there had then been another disputed transaction an hour later. Then Mr M had made 
another genuine transaction 22 minutes later. There had then been another disputed 
transaction ten minutes after that. And Mr M still had his card when he contacted Lloyds.
So this meant that someone would have had to have stolen Mr Ms card on three separate 
occasions, and returned to him on 3 other separate occasions, all in just over two and a half 
hours. The investigator didnt see how an unknown thief could have done this. The 
investigator also thought that £25 for the time Mr M spent on the phone reporting the 
complaint was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he hadnt used the card in the places hed disputed. He said he 
didnt have an explanation for how the card could be stolen three times, but he didnt think 
Lloyds had the evidence to prove hed done the transactions. Mr M also said it wasnt 
possible to get between the shop where the fourth disputed transaction had happened, to 
where hed withdrawn the £40, in seven minutes which the computer records showed. The 
investigator said hed checked out whether it was possible, and it was. Mr M then replied 
saying Lloyds had recorded the wrong cash machine for where hed withdrawn the £40.
Mr M also said the £25 from Lloyds was for poor service and misinformation from its 
customer services department, not for his time. He said he was unhappy at being called a 
liar and a cheat. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the regulations say
There are regulations about disputed transactions. The regulations for disputed transactions 
taking place on 23 December 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say 
that the payment service provider (here, Lloyds) must show the payment was authenticated. 
Thats the technical part. The computer can tell whether a card is genuine, and here, the 
computer records show that Mr Ms genuine card was used and the  disputed payments 
were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder (Mr M) 
authorised the payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise 
the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say 
that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain 
circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent 
that it can be termed gross negligence.
Who authorised the disputed payments
The timescales for the disputed payments are:
- Mr M used his card at 15:26;
- Disputed transactions then took place in different shops at 15:39, 15:45, 15:51 and 
16:22;
- Mr M used his card for his cash withdrawal at 16:29;
- There was then another one disputed transaction;
- Mr M used his card for a shop transaction;
- Thee was then one final disputed transaction;
- Mr M still had his card at the end of this.
I recognise that Mr M said he didnt make the disputed transactions. But the above events 
would have meant an unknown fraudster stealing the card three times, and returning it three 
times, all within a very short space of time. I find that this is very unlikely. So I dont consider 
a third party fraudster carried out the disputed transactions. 
This leaves two options: that Mr M carried out the disputed transactions himself, or that he 
allowed a known third party to use it. Under the regulations, allowing a third party to use the 
card would count as gross negligence. Either way, Lloyds doesnt have to refund Mr M.Mr M argues that Lloyds didnt have evidence to prove hed done the transactions. But it has 
evidence that the genuine card was used, and Mr M hadnt, for example, reported it stolen 
with a police crime reference number. Also, this service takes decisions not by requiring 
either side to provide absolute proof  because that often isnt available  but by assessing 
whats more likely than not to have happened in all the circumstances of a case.
After the investigator rejected Mr Ms argument that he couldnt have got between the shop 
where the 16:22 transaction was done, and the cash machine, in 7 minutes, Mr M put 
forward another argument. He said Lloyds had recorded the wrong cash machine. Ive 
considered this, but think this is most unlikely. Cash machine locations ae electronically and 
automatically recorded, and Lloyds has provided the electronic evidence. I accept that the 
cash withdrawal took place at the machine recorded by Lloyds.
Compensation paid by Lloyds
I can see that Lloyds asked Mr M to provide evidence of his call costs when reporting the 
disputed transactions. Mr M said he couldnt provide this, because his phone bill showed 
minutes rather than costs, so Lloyds didnt refund him separately for the call costs. I consider 
this is fair. Lloyds provided compensation because of service issues when making his 
complaint, such as providing incorrect bank contact numbers. 
When this service considers compensation, we take into account the circumstances of each 
individual case. Factors include the degree of inconvenience. In many cases, even though 
there has been a certain amount of inconvenience or distress, we dont usually tell a bank to 
pay compensation. We all suffer some inconvenience in our daily lives and our dealings with 
commercial organisations. And I find that the £25 which Lloyds paid Mr M was more than 
fair, especially when it concerned Mr Ms call to report a claim which wasnt upheld. I dont 
require Lloyds to do more. 
Finally, Mr M told Lloyds that if it didnt refund him for the disputed transactions it would put 
him into financial difficulties. Ive found it was more likely than not that it wasnt a third party 
fraudster who carried out the disputed transactions. But in any case, I can see that Lloyds 
referred Mr M to its specialist financial difficulties team to discuss this, which was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman