DRN-3011887
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Services Limited mis-sold her an insurance policy for her
kitchen appliances.
  
What happened
In 2019, Mrs M took out a HomeCare policy online to cover multiple kitchen appliances in
her home. She says she was asked to list what appliances she wanted to insure, but no
further details  like make or model  were requested at that time.
In 2020, Mrs Ms gas hob broke down. As this was one of the appliances shed insured, she
made a claim on her policy for it to be repaired. British Gas arranged for an engineer to
attend, who inspected the hob and advised that it wasnt an appliance suitable for cover. 
Mrs M wasnt happy, so she made a complaint.
British Gas say the hob isnt service listed, so it isnt an appliance its prepared to insure. It
says it doesnt inspect appliances at the start of the policy and its only when a claim is made
that it can determine whether its one its able to cover. If it isnt, it will remove the appliance
from the policy with a full refund of all payments made towards the cover for that appliance.
In Mrs Ms case, British Gas offered to refund the annual cost of the policy in full, despite the
fact that it covered other appliances and it had paid out two claims. Its also offered to pay
£30 compensation for the inconvenience.
Mrs M didnt accept this outcome, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our
investigator thought the policy had been mis-sold. But as British Gas had offered to refund
the premiums paid for the policy, she felt Mrs M had been put back in the position she
wouldve been in had the policy not been mis-sold. So she didnt think British Gas needed to
take any further action.
Mrs M didnt agree. She says that had she been told at the outset her gas hob wasnt
covered, she wouldve taken out a policy elsewhere which wouldve covered it. And she says
by not properly approving the appliances during the sale process, British Gas has left her in
a position whereby she has a broken gas hob that needs repairing and its too late to take 
out alternative cover. So she doesnt agree that a refund of the policy premiums puts her
back in the position she wouldve been in had the policy not been mis-sold.
As our investigator was unable to resolve things, the complaint was passed to me. And in 
July 2020, I issued a provisional decision, which said:
When selling the policy, British Gas shouldve provided enough information to Mrs M to 
enable her to make an informed decision about whether to buy. The information provided 
must be clear, fair and not misleading, and significant or unusual terms should be brought to 
her attention.
When taking out the insurance policy, Mrs M specified eight kitchen appliances she wanted 
to insure. These are listed on her policy schedule which she was sent along with the policys 
key facts and the terms and conditions.
The policy information explains that it covers the cost of repairing the appliances, and a 
contribution towards a replacement if a repair isnt possible. But in the last section of the 
policy booklet, under the heading cancelling your agreement, the policy says:
When we can cancel:
We can cancel your agreement or product ifyour boiler or appliance isnt on our
approved list.
The policy defines approved list as boilers, appliances or parts that we can repair or
replace.
British Gas says that it doesnt determine whether the specified appliances are on its
approved list until a claim is made. But I cant find anything within the welcome letter, policy 
schedule or key facts sent to Mrs M which makes that clear to her. And I would consider that 
to be a significant policy term given that it could mean Mrs M would be left without cover 
after a claim had been made. From the information Ive seen, Mrs M was led to believe she 
was fully insured for her appliances.
Ive asked British Gas to provide me with the information Mrs M wouldve seen online when
taking out the policy. But its been unable to do so. Ive looked online but it appears 
British Gas is no longer selling this product via its website. So Im not able to satisfy myself 
that this policy limitation was made adequately clear to Mrs M during the sale process.
British Gas has provided a screenshot of the appliance details Mrs M inputted online. It says 
Mrs M wouldve been prompted to input as much detail as possible about the appliances, but 
its systems show that she just put the name of the appliance. The detail description appears 
to have set to default  default  1 year old.
Mrs M denies being asked for any additional information when taking out the policy. And she 
says the screenshot provided by British Gas is factually incorrect because none of her 
appliances were only a year old at that time.
Whilst I cant be certain what information Mrs M input during the sale  because I cant see 
what questions she was asked and what information the website wouldve allowed her to 
input  I dont think it wouldve made any difference. I say this because British Gas has told 
us it doesnt determine whether the appliances are on its approved list until a claim is made.
So had Mrs M disclosed the make and model of the gas hob, Im persuaded the policy 
wouldve still been sold to her.
Ive thought about whether British Gas provided clear, fair and non-misleading information 
during the sale of the HomeCare policy. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it 
did. So Im of the opinion the policy was mis-sold.
Redress
Where I decide that a policy has been mis-sold, I need to consider what Mrs M wouldve 
done had she been given the correct information. If I think Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the 
insurance, Id usually ask British Gas to refund the premiums in order to put her back in the 
position she wouldve been in had it not been sold to her.But in this case, I dont think this approach goes far enough to put things right for Mrs M. I 
say this because Im persuaded that had Mrs M been told her gas hob wasnt eligible for 
cover at the point of sale, she wouldve taken a policy out elsewhere. And shes provided us 
with details of a like for like policy that would cover this make and model hob for 
approximately the same annual premium.
As a result of the policy being mis-sold, Mrs M is left with a broken appliance that she cant 
make a claim for, so shes out of pocket. The refund of premiums doesnt cover the financial 
loss here, so Im not persuaded shes been put back in the position she wouldve been in 
had the policy not been mis-sold.
As such, Im inclined to uphold the complaint and direct British Gas to pay the claim. If Mrs M 
has already deposited the cheque for the refund of premiums, then British Gas may deduct 
this from any claim settlement. But if she hasnt, I would suggest British Gas cancel the 
cheque and retain the premiums.
If Mrs M has already paid for a repair or replacement, she should provide details of the costs 
along with evidence. In that case, British Gas should reimburse her in line with what she 
wouldve been covered for under the policy had the appliance been on the approved list.
And finally, I can see that this experience has caused Mrs M distress and convenience. She 
was left without a working hob for some time after paying for a policy that shouldve covered 
her. So I think its fair for British Gas to increase its offer of compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M had no further comments or evidence for my consideration and has accepted my 
provisional decision. British Gas didnt respond.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Services Limited to pay the cost of the repair. 
If Mrs M has already paid for the repair, then it should reimburse her for that, together with 
simple interest at 8% per year* from the date she paid it to the date it reimburses her.
If Mrs M has already deposited the cheque for the refund of premiums, then British Gas is 
entitled to deduct this from any claim settlement. But if she hasnt, British Gas can cancel the 
cheque and retain the premiums.
In addition, I award Mrs M compensation of £150 for the trouble and upset shes 
experienced as a result of being sold a policy that was unsuitable for her appliance. This is 
an additional £120 to what British Gas has already offered to pay.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
*If British Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income taxfrom that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman