DRN-2882967
The complaint
Mr T complains about his insurer, Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). His 
complaint relates to the rejection of a claim under his home insurance for damage to his 
property in a storm.
 
LV use agents to administer the policy. Reference to LV includes these agents.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr T contacted LV about damage to the roof at his property during bad 
weather (at the time of Storm Ciara). LV sent an assessor to inspect the property loss, 
followed by a further visit by a second assessor (E).
  
Based on a report from E, LV declined Mr Ts claim. LV considered that there was damage 
that was historical and appeared to have occurred gradually over a long period of time. Mr T 
challenged LV over what he considered to be factual errors in their rejection, particularly 
about the quality of temporary repairs that had been carried out immediately after the 
incident. LV considered Mr Ts challenge but re-confirmed the rejection of his claim.
 
Unhappy at the rejection of his claim, Mr T complained to LV. LV rejected the complaint, 
upholding the original decision to decline his claim. LV re-confirmed their view that the 
damage had been caused gradually over time due to normal wear and tear through age and 
deterioration. LV also said that the claim had not been declined due to the temporary repairs 
carried out. But they didnt think the repairs had been carried out adequately. LV also 
referred to photographs taken by E showing what they considered to be the wear and tear. 
Following a further complaint, LV again declined Mr Ts claim.
Mr T then complained to this service. He was unhappy at LV declining his claim, as well as 
having to make a temporary repair to his roof and that there was been further water damage 
to his property. Mr T also said that having to deal with the incident and pursuing his claim 
with LV had been very stressful. He asked for his claim to be met, for the initial and 
subsequent damage to be repaired by LV.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded there were storm conditions at 
the time of the incident, and that the damage caused was consistent with that expected in a 
storm. But the investigator concluded, based on the report from E and photographs of the 
damage, that the main cause of the damage was the poor condition of the roof prior to the 
incident. The investigator concluded LV hadnt acted unfairly in declining Mr Ts claim.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Specifically, Mr T said that the temporary repair had wrongly been considered to 
indicate prior damage and he also disputed Es findings and conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether LV has acted fairly towards Mr T.
In considering Mr Ts complaint, Ive looked at the three key issues we consider involving 
damage caused by storms:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Ive looked at the information and evidence about the weather 
conditions on and around the date of the incident, which was when Storm Ciara hit the UK. 
Im satisfied that there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, and Ive also noted 
that this isnt a point of dispute for either Mr T or LV.
Turning to the second question, Ive looked at the evidence, including photographs of the 
damaged roof taken by Mr T as well as the report and photographs from E. Its clear that felt 
from the roof has been blown off, as well as dislodged tiles and other damage to an ariel and 
a flue. I think that the damage is consistent with damage we would expect to see from the 
storm conditions present at the date of the incident.
 
Again, this isnt a point of dispute between Mr T and LV. Ive noted LVs view that the 
damage highlighted existing issues that had occurred gradually over time, reflecting wear 
and tear, rather than causing the damage. To my mind thats part of the third question. Its 
not an indication that the damage was inconsistent with that to be expected from storm 
conditions.
So the key issue is the third question (were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause 
of the damage?) where Mr T and LV have different views.
LVs view is based on Es report that concludes (referring to photographs of the damaged 
roof, ariel and flue):
To summarise: based on my professional opinion I would suggest that all of the 
above has happened over a number of years and has not resulted from a one off 
storm event. It is very apparent that this damage is age related wear and tear 
therefore, not insured peril.
While we are not experts, we have to form a conclusion, based on the balance of 
probabilities, on what is the most likely cause of the damage. Ive considered Es report and 
its findings and conclusions. Ive also looked at the photographs from both E and from Mr T. 
Im persuaded that the damage is most likely to have been the result of wear and tear issues 
that occurred gradually. And that the storm conditions would have highlighted the issues, 
rather than being the main or dominant cause of the damage.
  
Ive also considered Mr Ts view that E and LV wrongly assessed the temporary repairs that 
Mr Ts roofing contractor carried out shortly after the incident when coming to their 
conclusions. Es report refers to the temporary repairs, indicating that they were aware of 
them at the time they carried out their inspection. But Es observations also refer explicitly to 
other damage, rather than the temporary repairs, for example to the flue. LV also stated 
explicitly that their decision to decline the claim was not based on the temporary repairs.
Ive also noted that Mr T told us that no maintenance work had been carried out on the felt 
flat roof that suffered damage from the time it was put up about 19 years before the incident. Mr T also said that he thought this length of time was consistent with the expected life of a 
flat roof of this type. However, Im aware from more general industry experience that felt flat 
roofs are prone to deterioration over time. And that their lifespan is typically much less than 
19 years, particularly if no maintenance is carried out during that time. 
Taking all these points together, then Ive concluded that on the balance of probabilities LV 
acted reasonably in declining Mr Ts claim on the grounds of the damage gradually occurring 
over time due to wear and tear, age and deterioration. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman