DRN-1727268
 
The complaint 
Ms V complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc won't refund two payments she made as a result of 
scam, totalling over £11,000. HSBC in this case operates under its First Direct brand.   
What happened
Ms V was having some work done on her home. In or about February 2019 she received an 
invoice by email, with instructions and details of the account to which payment was to be 
made. She made the payment, followed by a further one in March 2019. A little later, 
however, the designer to whom the payments should have been made contacted Ms V to 
say they hadn't received the money. It transpired that someone had sent Ms V fake invoices 
with different account details; Ms V had therefore transferred the money not to her designer 
but to an account controlled by fraudsters.       
Ms V contacted First Direct to explain what had happened. It said however that it couldn't 
help her. It contacted the bank to which the payments had been made, but the money had 
by then been removed. First Direct said it had followed Ms V's instructions in making the 
payments and had tried to recover the money. It wasn't responsible for the fact that Ms V 
had made the payment to an account that didn't belong to her contractor. 
Ms V referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators looked at it. She felt 
however that First Direct had treated Ms V fairly. Its primary obligation was, she said, to 
follow Ms V's instructions in making the payment. In the circumstances, there was nothing 
unusual or suspicious about the payments and First Direct wasn't in a position to verify the 
receiving account. The investigator thought as well that First Direct had taken appropriate 
steps to recover the money when Ms V explained what had happened. She didn't 
recommend that First Direct refund the money Ms V had lost. 
Ms V didn't accept the investigator's conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
them. She noted in particular that, at the time of the payments, the banking industry was 
discussing how to deal with fraud of this nature and that a voluntary code had been issued; 
HSBC had adopted that code a few weeks later.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached the same view 
as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
As the investigator noted, the starting point here is that Ms V authorised the payments. That 
is, she instructed First Direct to make the payments to the account to which it made them. 
Her bank followed those instructions; that's what I'd expect it to do, unless there was a good 
reason not to do so.  The payments weren't suspicious. Had the bank queried them with Ms V, she would no 
doubt have said she was making payments to a designer, because that's what she believed 
she was doing. 
Ms V, in her response to the investigator's initial view letter, commented on recent 
developments to combat fraud of this and similar types. She commented that a well-known 
weakness in the system was that banks couldn't check the names of payee accounts against 
the names on payers' payment instructions. Since it was a recognised weakness which the 
industry was discussing, she reasoned, it cannot have been good practice for First Direct not 
to check the name of the receiving account. 
I understand Ms V's point here, and in reaching my decision I must have regard to what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. However, what Ms V says would 
have been good industry practice on the part of First Direct is in reality dissatisfaction 
with the way many payment systems operate. First Direct says, and I accept, that it had no 
way of checking the name on Ms V's payment instruction matched that of the receiving 
account; that's unsurprising, since the receiving account was held with a different bank. I 
don't believe that I can fairly that First Direct didn't follow good industry practice here; what 
Ms V argues would have been good industry practice wasn't something the industry was 
able to do. 
For these reasons, whilst Ms V has my sympathy, I shan't  require First Direct to refund 
her losses.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require HSBC Bank UK Plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Ms V's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman