DRN-2826728
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd were at fault for issues relating to a payment to his friend 
and the subsequent return of the money.
What happened
Mr K had attempted a payment of £660 to his friend overseas but a week after the transfer 
his friend realised that she hadnt received the money Mr K sent. Mr K contacted Revolut 
who informed Mr K that they had sent the money.
Mr Ks friend enquired with her bank (the beneficiary bank) where the money was but they 
denied receiving the funds. Mr K said he finally transferred her the funds from an external 
bank account and this money arrived on the same day.
Mr K says that after two weeks, Revolut had told him that the beneficiary bank had cancelled 
the transfer and the money was with another bank. Mr K says that Revolut asked him and 
his friend to chase this up with the beneficiary bank and the corresponding bank and sent 
him documents and banking codes so he could forward these on.
Mr K says that Revolut refused to offer him a refund into his account. They also refused to 
pay him any compensation for inconvenience. Mr K asked his external bank to raise a 
chargeback on the original transaction which they did. Mr K says that Revolut reduced his 
balance by this figure which resulted in him having a negative balance. Mr K says a family 
member sent him £1,000 but his balance was only £340.
Mr K says that approximately one month after he made the initial transfer Revolut finally 
managed to credit his account with £660 and he tried to close his account. Mr K made a 
complaint to Revolut. He said they failed to deliver a service within a reasonable timeframe, 
they failed to offer a refund even when they had been notified the beneficiary bank had 
cancelled the transfer, they failed to give him a timeframe of when the money would be 
returned and asked him to keep chasing the beneficiary bank.
Revolut did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. They said that they werent at fault for the negative 
balance as they had informed Mr K they had raised a trace of the funds sent but Mr K had 
initiated a chargeback through his bank, which meant the funds were removed from his 
Revolut account as the chargeback was successful. 
Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator explained that he would split Mr 
Ks complaint and his concerns about the chargeback would be dealt with separately.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said that the regulator stipulates that 
payment service providers should not be held liable if the transfer failed because of 
abnormal and unforeseeable circumstances beyond the businesss control. As Revolut had 
sent the money and the payment instructions werent followed by a corresponding bank then 
Revolut couldnt be held responsible for this error. In addition, the payment instructions were 
sent in good time. Our investigator said he didnt believe Revoluts requests for Mr K and his 
friend to contact the recipient bank were unfair as it was apparent that these requests
were made principally for the purpose of establishing whether the funds had genuinely been
lost. He also said that the delays didnt occur as a consequence of Revoluts acts or 
omissions as Revolut had been prompt in actioning Mr Ks instructions.
Mr K asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that Revoluts terms and 
conditions state a one day delivery of the funds and that its the responsibility of the sender 
bank to trace the money.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made a number of points to both Revolut and this service and Ive considered and 
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Mr K is aware that the chargeback aspect of his complaint is being looked at separately to 
this part of his complaint. So I wont be referring to the chargeback element of his complaint 
in my decision.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about Revoluts terms and conditions. Section 19 of the 
terms and conditions state If you make a payment in £ or €, once weve taken the payment 
from your account, it will reach the account of the person you are paying the next business 
day. But Im not persuaded that its fair to look at this sentence in isolation. I say this as 
there are other sections of the terms and conditions which state its not always in Revoluts 
control to be able to do this. Im persuaded that its fair to read the terms and conditions 
collectively here.
Section 15 of the terms and conditions explains that Revolut will always try to process your 
payments correctly and on time, but sometimes things go wrong and a payment might be 
delayed or not received by the person you wanted to pay. So I do think that Revolut make it 
clear that there will be times that a payment cant be received by a beneficiary as intended. 
In addition, section 20 of the terms and conditions state that the payment can be delayed if, 
even after doing everything reasonably possible, we won't be able to make the payment on 
time or if a third party prevents us from making the payment. 
So Ive looked at what happened after Mr K submitted that transfer instruction to see if 
Revolut were responsible for any errors or delays here and Im satisfied that they acted as I 
would expect this situation. I say this as the payment instructions were received and 
executed by Revolut within one business day. From there, the funds were received by the 
recipient banks London branch (or at least their intermediary bank) within the one business 
day timeframe. 
What Im persuaded happened subsequently, was human error between the recipient banks 
London branch (or intermediary bank) and the branch in the recipients home country. This 
resulted in the funds not reaching Mr Ks friends account in time and resulted in the transfer 
being cancelled (but not returned to Revolut immediately). Im satisfied that this error was 
both outside of Revoluts reasonable control and was from the actions of a third party 
cancelling the payment. In order to uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint I would need to see 
that Revolut had made an error here and Im satisfied that they havent. I cant hold them 
responsible for an error made by a third party bank which is outside of Revoluts control.Next Ive thought about what Mr K has said about its the responsibility of the sender bank to 
trace the money. So Ive looked at what Revolut have done here. Revolut attempted to 
contact their partner bank (Revoluts partner bank werent responsible for the error in the 
money not being received by the beneficiary bank) on the day Mr K made them aware of the 
issue. And they chased this up the following day. Revolut did manage to trace the payment 
and recredited this to Mr Ks account. This took a lot longer than Mr K would have wanted it 
to but Im satisfied that this wasnt due to any actions that Revolut took to trace the funds. 
And as the money was with a third party bank, this is why they would be unable to give Mr K 
an accurate timeframe of its return. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr K has regarding that he feels hes done Revoluts 
work as he and his friend have contacted other banks involved to try and resolve the issue 
quicker. But Section 15 of the terms and conditions states Revolut are not responsible if we 
make a payment to the person you tell us to, even if you gave us the wrong account number, 
username or phone number by mistake. However, if you ask us to, well try to get your 
money back for you. We may also try to get you information about the beneficiary so that 
you can try to get it back yourself. So while Im satisfied Mr K gave Revolut the correct 
details for the payment to reach his friends account, he did ask Revolut to get his money 
back to him. As the terms show here, they may also try to get him information which then Mr 
K would be able to get back the money himself. 
But Im persuaded that Revolut gave Mr K this information and asked him to contact the 
beneficiary bank because this would be quicker action then if Revolut had sent them a 
message  banks communicate regarding international transfers through a Society for 
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) message. The payment was not 
cancelled by the beneficiary bank until 7 October 2020 and as Ive mentioned the delays 
were as a result of the beneficiary bank/corresponding bank delays and not as a result of 
Revoluts actions. So Im persuaded that Revolut gave Mr K information to give to the 
beneficiary bank to help speed up this process and not to neglect their duties to trace the 
payment. The information Revolut has provided me shows they did put a trace on the 
payment in a timely manner.
Our investigator explained to Mr K the Payment Services Regulations. And he explained the 
money which had been sent to the London branch of the recipients bank was supposed to 
be passed on to the branches in his friends home country, but only the payment instructions 
were sent, and that bank cancelled and reversed the transfer  not Revolut. Im in 
agreement with him that in these circumstances, we wouldnt expect Revolut to simply 
refund Mr K his £660. This is because they acted correctly in tracing the funds and they 
werent responsible in causing the error. So it would be unfair to ask them to refund the 
money sent.
Mr K brought a number of legal points in his submission to this service. But its not for this 
service to reach a finding on the legality of the points Mr K has raised. Our service is a quick 
and informal alternative to the courts. So while Ive considered what hes had to say about 
this, Ive thought about this impartially  alongside what Revolut have said here. With that in 
mind Revolut are entitled to set their own fair requirements for how payments are to be 
processed and Im satisfied theyve done that here and treated Mr K fairly  even if it hasnt 
led to the outcome he wanted. So it follows I wont be asking Revolut to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman