DRN-3552154
The complaint
Mr T complains that Earl Shilton Building Society gave him misleading account maturity 
information.
What happened
Mr T says he received a letter from Earl Shilton about his account dated 1 June 2021 
received on 7 June 2021. He says the letter was incorrect and misleading in that the interest 
rate quoted was not the same as on the interest rate leaflet. Mr T says he wrote to Earl 
Shilton on 7 June 2021, but it says it didnt receive his letter. He would like appropriate 
compensation for the inconvenience he was caused and for his administrative costs in 
writing to Earl Shilton about the issue.
Earl Shilton accepts there was a mistake in the letter and has apologised. It has paid Mr T 
£10 as a gesture of goodwill. It also accepts that the quality of its administration was not of 
an appropriate standard.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator explained that we cant consider 
complaints about complaint handling. The investigator accepted Earl Shilton had made a 
mistake but didnt think Mr T had suffered any loss. And thought the goodwill gesture 
appropriate for the inconvenience.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and in summary says the £10 goodwill gesture is inadequate 
for what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. There is 
no need for me to repeat in detail what took place and I recognise Mr Ts strength of feeling 
here but I dont consider further compensation is appropriate for the reasons I will explain.
There is no question here that Earl Shiltons maturity letter of 1 June 2021 was incorrect and 
misleading as it contained details of the wrong interest rate. I appreciate Mr Ts frustration in 
those circumstances as I can see that he noticed the inconsistency. I also appreciate that Mr 
T immediately wrote to Earl Shilton pointing out the issue but for whatever reason it didnt 
receive that letter.
I am sure Mr T appreciates that mistakes are on occasions made by banks and building 
societies. I can see that Earl Shilton accepts that it made a mistake and has fairly apologised 
for that mistake. I dont think Mr T suffered any real financial loss as a result of what took 
place save the cost of writing to Earl Shilton which I dont think is likely to have resulted in a 
significant amount. I think it likely that the goodwill gesture covered any such costs and cant 
see that Mr T has provided a breakdown of any such costs in any event or told us what he 
considers the cost of writing to Earl Shilton was.
Overall, I accept a mistake was made but I dont think that mistake justifies the 
compensation Mr T would like and consider its impact relatively small. Im satisfied that Earl 
Shilton has apologised and paid a fair and reasonable goodwill gesture, no doubt intended to 
cover the administrative costs of writing to it. I can see that Mr T is aware that we cant 
consider complaint handling and so I have not commented in this decision about how those 
matters were dealt with.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman