DRN-3421170
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund disputed transactions made from his 
account. Hes also unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his bank account. 
What happened
On 18 March 2021 a payment was made from Mr Ms account to an e-money provider Ill call 
P. 
Mr M explained to Monzo that he didnt authorise the payment. Mr M advised that hed 
attempted to buy some food shopping however the payment was declined. So he transferred 
some money from another one of his accounts, with a bank Ill call Bank L, to his Monzo 
account. However, these funds were then spent on the disputed transaction. 
Monzo looked into Mr Ms claim but didnt uphold it. They thought on balance that Mr M most 
likely authorised the payment. 
Monzo also provided Mr M with two months notice to close his account  and Mr Ms 
account was closed on 30 May 2021.  
Mr M wasnt happy with Monzos response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In summary 
they thought it more likely than not Mr M authorised the disputed transaction because:
There was no evidence of a declined payment in a supermarket as Mr M described
The transfer in from Mr Ms account with Bank L enabled the payment to be 
successful
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. And in response he highlighted that hed advised 
both Monzo and our service that the transfer he made into his account was to provide him 
with sufficient funds to buy food for his Dad. 
As Mr M didnt accept our investigators view, the case has been moved to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Monzo can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine card details were used
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not,
on its own, enough to enable Monzo to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the 
transaction being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Monzo to conclude that Mr M 
authorised he transaction. This is because:
The disputed transaction was carried out online at 5:14pm on 18 March 2021. At 
5:10pm on the same day a payment for the same amount was attempted to P, but 
this was declined because of an insufficient balance. Three minutes after the 
declined payment Mr M transferred in £26.49. And less than one minute later the 
disputed transaction was carried out. Mr Ms explained that he made the transfer in 
from Bank L as he was attempting to buy food shopping, and his transaction was 
declined. But, Ive seen the audit trail from Monzo and theres no evidence of a 
declined payment at this time. 
To carry out the transaction a fraudster would have needed access to Mr Ms card 
details  Mr M explained that his card was at home at the time of the disputed 
transaction, and the only other person who lived there is his wife, who wasnt at 
home. 
Mr Ms explained that he transferred in funds he received into his account with 
Bank L from his Dad. Our investigator asked Mr M for bank statements to show the 
transaction, however Mr M hasnt provided these. 
For a fraudster to have carried out the payment without Mr Ms knowledge, theyd 
have needed to be aware that between 5:10 and 5:14pm Mr Ms balance would 
increase sufficiently to enable the payment. Looking at Mr Ms online banking log I 
can see a log in at 5:13pm, prior to the successful payment, but Mr M hasnt disputed 
he checked his account at this time. And the device used, matched a device regularly 
used previously to log into his account. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above and taking everything into account, I find, on balance,
that Mr M authorised the disputed transaction. It follows that Monzo is entitled to hold him
liable for it. 
Account closure:
Mr M didnt respond specifically to our investigators conclusion about the account closure  
however Ive briefly considered this, and whether Monzo acted fairly in closing his account. I 
understand Mr M will be disappointed, but as per the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account 
Monzo are entitled to close any account with a customer by giving 2 months notice. Which 
they provided. The bank doesnt need to provide a reason for this. Therefore, I cant 
conclude they acted unfairly in closing Mr Ms account. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman