DRN-2954566
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) wont refund the £1,400 he 
lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr S made two transfers to two different beneficiary accounts totalling
£1,400, from his NatWest current account via faster payment using his online banking 
facility. He thought he was making the payments to secure a rental property, but later 
found out that there was no property, hed been the victim of a scam and had actually sent 
his money to a fraudster.
Mr S told NatWest what had happened and asked it to refund the money. It was able to 
recover £2.80 from one of the beneficiary banks, but didnt think it was liable for his loss. 
Mr S complained that NatWest didnt warn him about scams when he made the 
payments, and if it had done, he wouldnt have made them.
Mr S referred a complaint to this service. But our investigator didnt think NatWest 
shouldve reasonably been expected to prevent the fraud. Mr S remained unhappy and 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Mr S fell victim to a scam, and I appreciate why he feels that his money 
should be returned to him. I was also sorry to hear of the difficult situation Mr S was in at 
the time he made the payments. It cant have been an easy time for him. But having 
carefully considered everything hes told us, I cant fairly hold NatWest liable for his loss. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of their account. And Ive taken that into account when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But the matter doesnt end there, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. And I consider NatWest should, fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and 
scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr 
S when he made the transfers using its online banking platform, or whether it shouldve 
done something more.
Its not in dispute that Mr S authorised the transfers and, as Ive explained above, NatWest 
had an obligation to follow his instructions. But I think NatWest should also have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
With this in mind, Ive looked at Mr Ss bank statements for the months leading up to the 
disputed transactions. Having done so, I dont think the payments made as part of the scam 
were particularly unusual or out of character given the way Mr S tended to use his account. 
In the months leading up to the fraud, he made a number of faster payments using his 
online banking facility which were similar in value. So while the money was sent to two new 
payees, the payments were not significantly different or unusual such that I think they ought 
to have been a cause for concern and prompted NatWest to intervene.
Having said that, even if the bank had flagged the payments and given Mr S any scam 
warnings or ask questions about the reason they were being made, I think its more 
likely than not Mr S wouldve still made the payments. I say this because:
Mr S has told us that hed found the rental property on an established website used to 
advertise local products and services, including listing items for sale. He said he had 
used the website to successfully find accommodation in the past and decided to use 
it again.
Mr S has sent us copies of the email correspondence between him and the person 
claiming to be the landlord of the property. From this, its clear Mr S was very keen to 
rent the property after seeing photographs of it. He was obviously impressed by the 
advert and wanted to secure the property even before viewing it. He was actively asking 
the landlord how he could make payment without being prompted to do so, and its 
clear that he was taken in by the scam and trusted that the landlord was genuine.
Had NatWests systems triggered the payments, this may have led to a conversation 
between Mr S and one of its fraud team representatives. If the bank had explained about 
scams, and suggested Mr S view the property before making the payments, Im 
satisfied, on balance, that he wouldve still gone ahead with the payments of £500 
(deposit) and £900 (first months rent). Its clear he was very determined to secure the 
property before anyone else. And, Mr S has told our investigator that at the time, he was 
100% of the belief that he was in negotiation to secure a new tenancy.
Ive said the points merely to better help Mr S understand the situation. But, importantly, as 
Ive already said, I dont think the payments were sufficiently unusual or out of character 
that the bank ought to have intervened.
Recovering Mr Ss moneyThe Payment Service Regulations 2017 say a payment service provider, in this case 
NatWest, should notify receiving banks about potential fraud immediately. Its unclear 
from NatWests records exactly how soon after Mr S reported the scam it contacted the 
beneficiary banks. But our investigator has received evidence from one of the beneficiary 
banks to show that Mr Ss money was removed the same day the payments credited the 
account. Despite asking, we havent been able to obtain similar confirmation from the 
other beneficiary bank. But, on balance, Im satisfied its more likely than not the fraudster 
wouldve taken the same action with that account too.
Mr S didnt contact NatWest until a few days after the payments were made. So even 
if NatWest had done everything it couldve within the expected timeframe, only £2.80 
remained to recover for Mr S. Its a common fraudster tactic to remove money from 
the receiving account as quickly as possible, before the victim of fraud realises what 
has happened. And, unfortunately this is what happened in Mr Ss case.
Overall, taking all the circumstances into account, I dont think NatWest should be 
held responsible for Mr Ss loss, so it wouldnt be fair for me to tell it to refund his 
money.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman