DRN-3727798
The complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society unfairly refused him a personal loan on terms hed 
received a quote for via its app.
What happened
When Mr B saved details via Nationwides app for a loan application in May 2022 he was 
quoted terms with an annual percentage rate (APR) of 2.9%. When he went back to 
Nationwide to go ahead with the loan a few days later he found the APR had gone up to 
4.9%, making it more expensive to repay.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response to Mr Bs complaint  that its lending policy had 
changed in the intervening period which meant it couldnt offer the lower APR, but that it 
would pay him £50 as compensation for the delay in responding to his concerns  he 
approached this service.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. They didnt find that 
Nationwide had done anything wrong. Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr Bs sent us and said. Which, in essence, is 
that when he saved his initial quote the information Nationwide gave him was unclear and 
misleading  contrary to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for Businesses. 
Mr B sent us an image of a screen from Nationwides app  from when his wife 
subsequently applied to Nationwide for a quote for a personal loan  that he says is also 
what he saw when he used the app. It said:
Application saved
Thank you for saving your personal loan application
Your application has been saved
Well save this application for 15 days. After that time, if you want to 
apply for your Personal Loan youll need to start a new application.
You can come back to complete your application at any time by logging 
in to the Internet Bank or Mobile Banking app and going to My Quotes 
and Applications. 
Soon after that, Mr Bs wife received an email saying, in summary, that her application had 
been saved. It said her quote was ready to her to resume until the end of the day. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels the information his wife (and by extension he) was given was 
unclear. On the one hand he says the screen from the app suggests the applications saved 
for 15 days. And, on the other hand, he says the email she got suggests the quote would be 
ready to resume but only until the end of the day. Mr B says he relied on the screen showing 
on the app in believing he had 15 days to apply and that the terms of the loan wouldnt 
change in that time.
Assuming Mr B saw the same app screen his wife saw (he says he didnt read the follow-up 
email at that time), Im satisfied the information he was given was clear and not misleading. I 
say that because he was told he had 15 days in which to complete the application. As I 
understand it, no full loan application was submitted during that period. The information 
provided didnt suggest that the terms of the loan, including the APR, wouldnt change in that 
time or that hed be protected from any increases. 
From the available information, it seems to me that theres a distinction to be made between 
an application with Nationwide and a quote. While the application was saved for 15 days, the 
quote (which took account of the applicable APR) was only saved until the end of the day 
before it expired. Mr B didnt apply for the loan before the quote expired. Its unfortunate for 
Mr B that Nationwides lending policy changed and the APR went up after the quote he 
generated expired. But I cant see anything to suggest it led Mr B to believe that couldnt 
happen. 
In terms of its handling of Mr Bs complaint, Nationwide acknowledges it delayed in providing 
him with its response. I think its offer of £50 as compensation for the impact of thats fair in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman