DRN-4251675
The complaint
Miss W complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail Group), 
trading as Argos, irresponsibly granted her a store card account she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss W entered into an agreement with Home Retail Group to have access to credit with a 
store card account that was opened for her in March 2020. The account had an opening 
credit limit of £600. 
Miss W says that Home Retail Group didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it 
opened her account. 
Home Retail Group didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Miss Ws financial circumstances before granting her the account. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Home Retail Group 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account. 
Miss W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home Retail Group will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Miss Ws complaint is that Home Retail Group made credit available to her that was 
unaffordable for her from the outset. Before granting the new account and setting the 
opening credit limit, Home Retail Group looked into Miss Ws financial situation. I think Home 
Retail Group gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and information from Miss W about 
her ability to repay her account. This included completing a credit check with credit reference 
agencies and checking that she was in full time employment. The check showed that in 
January 2020 there had been a county court judgment against Miss W for £200. Whilst this 
is obviously a concern, especially if at that point it hadnt yet been paid (although that isnt  
clear from the details Ive seen), Home Retail Group needed to consider whether there was 
a likelihood that Miss W wouldnt be able to meet the monthly repayments. I dont think, 
based on what Ive seen, that granting a relatively modest credit limit of £600 in the context 
of this judgment was irresponsible. I say this especially as Miss W otherwise appeared to be 
managing her finances and other credit well enough so as not to be incurring arrears or 
default notices. The credit check also showed that she didnt have any defaults or other 
adverse findings against her from previous borrowing. So, from all the evidence and 
information Ive seen, there wasnt anything that was likely to have been apparent to 
Home Retail Group from the checks it carried out to suggest it was otherwise wrong to grant 
her the credit. 
Its possible that Home Retail Group failed to make adequate checks before providing 
Miss W with the credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused it to think the opening credit limit it gave her was unaffordable. 
I say this because, taking into account what we know about Miss Ws income and financial 
situation at the time, the opening credit limit was reasonable and the maximum monthly 
payments would likely have been manageable. And whilst Ive seen from Miss Ws bank 
statements prior to the account opening that she went into her overdraft for part of January 
2020 before she was paid, I dont consider this to be a concern, especially given it being 
early in the new year. And I dont consider occasional use of an overdraft facility to be an 
issue that would necessarily be enough to show or suggest that new credit at the level it 
was given with the card was likely to have been granted irresponsibly or indicate a 
deteriorating financial situation. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, and in the absence of 
any extra evidence from Miss W to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think 
that a more thorough affordability check would have led Home Retail Group to think that 
the credit it provided to Miss W was unreasonable. 
I know that Miss W will be disappointed with my decision. But I would like her to know that I 
have fully considered everything she has told us. Having done so, however, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to be able to uphold this complaint.
Im therefore not persuaded that Home Retail Group acted unfairly in approving the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman