DRN-3856993
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund him for transactions he says he didnt
authorise.
What happened
Between April and September 2021, there were 35 payments made from Mr S bank account
to an online gambling company totalling £23,632. Mr S reported these transactions to
Santander in September 2021 as payments he didnt make.
Santander declined Mr S claim as some of the gambling transactions were funded with
transfers from his linked account. Since the transfers from the linked account were made
using Mr S own device and passcode, they believe the transactions were authorised.
They also said that Mr S didnt report the disputed activity until September 2021, despite
being a regular user of online banking. They thought there would be no benefit to a fraudster
to make gambling payments, as any winnings would credit Mr S account. They gave Mr S
30 days notice to withdraw his banking facilities.
Unhappy with this, Mr S raised a complaint. He told Santander that he thought a family
member may have looked over his shoulder to learn his passcode and access his online
banking. He asked them to reconsider their decision and reiterated that he didnt authorise
the transactions.
Santander said they were unable to amend their original decision to decline Mr S claim and
said that theyd be closing his accounts as per the notice he was given. Mr S referred his
complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that he was persuaded Mr S authorised the payments to the gambling
company. And that Santander had acted within the terms and conditions in closing Mr S
account. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2022, and I made the following findings:
Under the relevant rules, Santander can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions 
if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised them 
himself.
Santander have provided technical evidence which shows the payments were made 
using Mr S genuine card number and CVV details, so Im satisfied the transactions 
were authenticated. But this on its own isnt enough to say Mr S is liable for the 
transactions. I also need to be satisfied that based on the evidence, its likely that Mr 
S himself made, or otherwise authorised the transactions.
Mr S bank statements show that the majority of the disputed transactions were made 
within a matter of minutes after the internal transfers from his linked account. 
Santander have provided persuasive evidence to show that Mr S own mobile phone 
device was used to carry out the internal transfers and these funds were then used to 
make the disputed transactions.
I think this likely means that the person that carried out the internal transfers also 
made the disputed transactions to the gambling company. And to do so, they 
wouldve required access to Mr S mobile phone.
Ive thought about the explanation Mr S has provided that his family member may 
have carried out the transactions. But the family member or a third party, wouldnt 
have been able to make the transfers without also knowing Mr S five-digit passcode. 
Mr S has suggested that the family member may have looked over his shoulder and 
seen him enter his passcode unbeknown to him.
Whilst thats not improbable, it doesnt explain how the family member, or a third 
party was able to access Mr S phone more than around 25 times across a five-
month period without Mr S realising.
Mr S has said that he lives with his girlfriend who doesnt have access to his online 
banking or passcode. And hes confirmed that she can be ruled out as the person 
that carried out the disputed transactions.
I dont think its feasible that a family member or third party wouldve been able to 
gain access to his mobile phone, use it to complete the internal transfer and then 
return it to him unnoticed on several occasions. I think this is very unlikely as it 
significantly increases the risk of Mr S becoming aware of the activity.
Mr S has confirmed that having spoken to the gambling company, the disputed 
transactions were made using his own account with them. So, it doesnt explain how 
the family member, or third party also knew Mr S log in details for the account with 
the gambling company.
I think its highly unlikely that someone who had access to Mr S online banking 
would use the funds to carry out gambling transactions using an account in Mr S 
own name. There would be no financial benefit for them to do so.
This is because the winnings/credit withdrawals of over £12,000 were paid back into 
Mr S account. I think theyd be more likely to transfer funds out of Mr S account into 
a different one where they can make a financial gain.
And even if the family member or third party carried out these transactions for 
enjoyment rather than financial gain, I think theyre more likely to use any winnings to 
gamble further rather than withdraw it to credit Mr S account, especially since the 
winnings would also show on Mr S bank statement which could lead to him 
discovering the fraud.
Also, Mr S didnt initially report any concerns to Santander about the internal 
transfers which funded the disputed transactions to the gambling company. Since Mr 
S had checked his statements for unauthorised use, Id reasonably have expected 
him to report that he hadnt made the internal transfers either.Based on the evidence and on balance, I think Mr S authorised the internal transfers 
himself. It follows, I think he also authorised the disputed transactions and therefore 
Santander can fairly hold him liable.
Mr S is also unhappy that Santander have closed his accounts and have accused 
him of committing fraud against them.
Ive listened to the relevant phone calls, and I think Santander made it clear to Mr S 
before discussing the details of his fraud claim that it was important he was honest 
with them. As if they deemed he had carried out the transactions, then theyd close 
his accounts and he wouldnt be able to bank with them anymore.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to conclude that Mr S wasnt being
completely honest based on the explanation he initially gave them, as it was difficult 
for them to understand how anyone else could have carried out the internal transfers 
which funded the gambling transactions.
Based on the circumstances, Mr S testimony and the evidence, I dont think it was
unreasonable for Santander to have legitimate concerns over the authenticity of his 
claim.
Santander are within their rights to decide to end their relationship with Mr S and the 
terms and conditions allow them to do so. However, since Mr S held a basic bank 
account, they could only close his accounts in very specific circumstances as set out 
within the Payment Accounts Regulations 2015.
Having considered the rationale for Santanders decision, Im satisfied under the 
regulations they were entitled to close Mr S account immediately without giving any 
notice  although they opted to give Mr S 30 days notice.
I know the account closure caused Mr S upset and it was inconvenient for him, but as
explained, Santander are allowed to make this decision and couldve closed his 
accounts immediately if they wanted to. So, I cant agree theyve treated him 
unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Santander confirmed they had nothing further to add. Mr S told us he doesnt accept the 
decision. So, theres no new evidence or comments for me to consider.
Im satisfied with the findings I reached in my provisional decision, and I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome I explained. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman