DRN-3423784
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost after falling victim to a 
vehicle purchase scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will summarise them 
here. Briefly, Mr M found a utility vehicle listed for sale on an auction website. Unfortunately, 
Mr M wasnt dealing with a genuine seller and was instead interacting with a fraudster. Mr M 
was duped into making two payments for a total of £4,200 to bank account details hed been 
given. 
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment (APP) scams like this one in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Metro says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case. In its final 
response letter, Metro considered it had taken the necessary steps to protect Mr M by 
providing him with a scam warning. It said Mr M didnt take reasonable steps to confirm this 
wasnt a scam because he paid outside of the auction websites platform and he didnt make 
a video call to see that the vehicle was in the sellers possession. Metro did try to recover the 
money Mr M had sent, but sadly no funds remained. 
Mr M was unhappy with the banks position and complained to us. He pointed out he thought 
he was using the auction website because he received an email invoice and a text message 
that looked like genuine messages from the platform. He said hed paid the account details 
from the invoice and it was not his fault that Metro has not signed up to Confirmation of 
Payee, which would have identified that the payee details did not match the person hed 
been dealing with. He explains the sellers account had been a member of the auction 
website for over ten years and had 100% positive feedback for transactions they had made. 
Mr M felt hed [I] acted in a sensible way, checked the messages & invoice came from 
eBay, paid the money into a account. [sic] 
Our Investigator thought the bank should have fully reimbursed Mr M. He acknowledged that 
Metro had given Mr M a warning about scams, but he didnt think the warning did enough to 
bring to life what a vehicle scam looks like. He considered the actions Mr M took before 
agreeing to buy the vehicle, including checking the vehicles registration number and MOT 
history online, were reasonable. He noted the seller had around 350 positive reviews for 
previous sales on the auction website and that the paperwork purporting to come from the 
auction website looked authentic. He thought the explanation the fraudster had given about 
why the account on the auction website was held in a different name was plausible. 
Metro disagreed and asked for a decision from an Ombudsman. It said it would expect 
someone buying a vehicle theyd not seen in real life to arrange a video call to see the car in 
the possession of the seller. It also thought it would have been prudent for Mr M to have paid 
a deposit rather than the full amount. It pointed out Mr M didnt follow the auction websites 
safety advice by transacting outside of its platform. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has now been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Metro should have refunded the money Mr M lost. 
Ill explain why. 
The starting point in law is that Mr M is presumed liable for any transaction he authorises. He 
did consent to making the disputed payments, even though hed been tricked into doing so. 
But Metro has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code says that firms should refund 
customers that fall victim to an authorised push payment scam like this one except in a small 
number of circumstances. It is for Metro to establish that a customer failed to meet a 
requisite level of care under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
The exceptions relevant to this case are:
The customer ignored an Effective Warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
Im not persuaded any of these exceptions apply in Mr Ms case.
Metro says Mr M failed to meet his level of care under the CRM Code because he ignored 
an Effective Warning that applied to the payments being made. But Metro is not sure exactly 
what information was presented at the time Mr M made the payments. Our Investigator 
thought it probable that it was the shopping warning, but the banks records suggest it was 
something else. It seems likely that Metro provided at least some generic information about 
scams to Mr M at the time he made the payments, even though it cannot say exactly what 
that information was or whether it would have been enough to bring to life what a vehicle 
purchase scam looks and feels like. As such, I am not persuaded that the information Metro 
presented to Mr M should have resonated with him to such an extent that it should have had 
a material effect in preventing the vehicle purchase scam that took place. 
In any case, the two payments Mr M made were unremarkable. They didnt drain his account 
balance and looking at his bank statements, the amounts were similar to other genuine 
transactions he had made in the months leading up to the scam. I dont think the amounts of 
the payments or the fact they were going to a new payee would have made them stand out 
enough for Metro to have been concerned that Mr M might have been at risk of financial 
harm from fraud at the time that he made them. This means that Metro was not obligated to 
provide Effective Warnings under the CRM Code as it didnt need to identify an APP scam 
risk as part of each payment journey. Overall, I dont think Metro can fairly say that Mr M fell 
below his requisite level of care because he ignored an Effective Warning, so Ive gone on to 
consider whether Metro can choose not to refund Mr M for any other reason. 
Metro has raised concerns that Mr M didnt try to view the vehicle first and that he could 
have protected himself by paying a deposit and transacting on the auction websites 
platform. The exception to reimbursement here asks the question as to whether Mr M had a 
reasonable basis for believing the goods he was looking to obtain, and the party he sought 
to obtain them from, were legitimate. Im not persuaded that Metro has shown this exception to reimbursement applies. 
Ive thought about the steps Mr M took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the 
transaction and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payments. Mr M was 
seeking to buy a niche utility vehicle. It has not been possible to obtain an indicative 
valuation of its typical sale price from recognised industry trade guides. Mr M has explained 
that hed looked at other similar vehicles on the auction website and all other models were 
in the same ball park regarding cost.  My own research on this point broadly aligns with 
what Mr M has described and so, on balance, Im not persuaded that the price the vehicle 
was advertised for was too good to be true and ought to have raised concerns in and of 
itself. 
In addition to this, the correspondence Mr M received didnt raise any suspicions with him at 
the time. Mr M has explained he thought he was dealing with the genuine auction website. 
I can see why he would have thought this. The invoice he received is convincing. At first 
blush, it appears to have been sent from the genuine auction websites email address. The 
message uses the auction websites font and branding and it contained hyperlinks which go 
back to the listing. 
The checks Mr M did, such as looking up the vehicles MOT history and its registration plate 
did not show up any concerns. The explanations the seller gave Mr M about the auction 
website account belonging to his girlfriend were plausible. Mr M explains that the 
photographs of the vehicle tied up with the situation hed been told about it being located on 
a farm. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr M to place weight on the positive feedback 
the sellers account had received during the ten years it had been active on the platform. 
Feedback is an integral part of the buying and selling community on the platform and I can 
see why Mr M would have taken confidence from the information he could see about the 
sellers previous conduct on the site. I dont think he missed anything that would have 
obviously alerted him to the possibility of the sellers account being hacked or the listing 
being falsified. 
Metro has far superior knowledge of what scams like this look and feel like so its not 
surprising that the bank can think of further steps and checks that Mr M could have taken to 
try and protect himself. Mr M has explained that he proceeded after being satisfied with the 
communication with the seller and after hed undertaken his own research. People dont 
want or expect to be scammed and I think Mr M took reasonable and appropriate steps to try 
and protect himself. The information Mr M had indicated he was buying a vehicle from a 
legitimate seller that had a good reputation. The fact that the bank can think of additional 
things Mr M could have done does not mean that he did not do enough.
Im satisfied these points cover all the objections made by Metro. As such, I dont think Metro 
has sufficiently demonstrated this exception to reimbursement can fairly be applied. This 
isnt to say theres nothing else at all Mr M might have done before proceeding with the sale. 
But that isnt the question to be answered. The issue here is whether his basis of belief at 
the time was reasonable and I consider that it was. 
In summary, I think Mr M has met his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. As such, 
Metro should refund the funds he lost to the fraudster in full, in line with the CRM Code. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Metro Bank PLC. I require Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund the £4,200 Mr M lost to the fraudsterPay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date Metro declined Mr Ms claim 
under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman