DRN-3601384
The complaint
Ms B and Mrs M complained because National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund 
them for transactions they said they didnt authorise.
What happened
Ms B and her mother Mrs M had a joint account with NatWest. They had individual cards. On 
30 March 2022, they visited their branch together, to dispute five transactions.  These were:
- a £1900 cash withdrawal made inside the branch on 21 February;
- a £250 cash machine withdrawal on 1 March;
- a £1700 cash withdrawal made inside the branch, a few minutes later, also on 1 
March;
- a £1900 cash withdrawal made inside the branch on 7 March; and
- a £100 cash machine withdrawal made a few minutes later, also on 7 March. 
The total disputed was £5,850.
Theres a disagreement about what happened when Ms B and Mrs M went to the branch to 
dispute these transactions.
NatWests version is that the branch manager recognised Ms B from 21 February, when the 
first withdrawal was done. The branch manager gave a detailed statement about what she 
said had happened: 
- She said that on 21 February, Ms B had come in alone to take out £5,000 cash. 
When Ms B arrived, she didnt have any invoice to confirm what the money was for. 
The manager had refused to allow a £5,000 cash withdrawal, but allowed £1,900 
because Ms B said she needed funds for household items which had been damaged 
inside the house. The manager said she could use her card to buy these, but Ms B 
had said she wanted cash;
- The branch manager said that shed next seen Ms B when Ms B came to the branch 
with her mother Mrs M on 30 March and said she hadnt withdrawn any money. The 
branch manager told them she was quite sure Ms B was the customer for whom 
shed authorised the £1,900 withdrawal. Ms Bs mother Mrs M became distressed, so 
the manager took Ms B to a separate room, where Ms B said shed never been into 
the branch on 21 February. 
- Ms B and Mrs M wouldnt leave the branch, so the manager called the police. 
Together, the manager and police had looked at CCTV from 21 February, and both 
confirmed Ms B was the same person;
- The manager also commented that one of the withdrawal slips had the same 
passport number as the one which Ms B later produced. And chip and PIN had been 
used for all withdrawals.
Ms B and Mrs Ms version is that they didnt recall any of the disputed transactions. They 
said they always went to the branch together. It was Ms Bs card which had been used for 
the withdrawals, and she said she couldnt think of any way in which the PIN could have 
been compromised. Ms B also disagreed with NatWest and said that she hadnt spoken to 
the branch manager at NatWest had said.
NatWest didnt uphold Ms B and Mrs Ms complaint. It said there was no explanation about 
how the details might have been compromised. Ms B and Mrs M werent satisfied and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms B and Mrs Ms complaint. He said he thought it was most 
likely that Ms B had authorised the withdrawals. He thought this because Ms Bs card and 
PIN had been used, and Ms B had said no-one else had access to these. And the pattern of 
spaced-out withdrawals wasnt that of a fraudster. He also pointed out that the passport 
details on the withdrawal form matched those later produced by Ms B. So he considered 
NatWest had acted reasonably when it refused to refund Ms B and Mrs M.
Ms B and Mrs M didnt agree. They said they couldnt have made the transactions. Ms B 
said that she spent her whole time caring for Mrs M, and the late afternoon times of the 
transactions didnt indicate shed made them. Ms B and Mrs M asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant ones here are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, these say that the bank is liable if the 
customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise 
them. So what I need to consider is whether Ms B or Mrs M authorised the transactions, or a 
third party.
The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments 
under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to 
such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
Who authorised the disputed transactions?
The computer records show that the disputed transactions were all carried out using Ms Bs 
genuine card and correct PIN. The chip on a card cant be cloned, so it was the genuine card 
which was used. There are also 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit PIN, so its very 
unlikely that any third party fraudster would have been able to guess the number.
Ms B said that no-one else had access to her card and PIN. She hadnt reported her card 
lost or stolen. So I cant see how anyone else could have obtained Ms Bs card  and 
returned it five times without her knowledge -  and also known the correct PIN.
Ive also taken into account the evidence of the passport. Ive seen a copy of the withdrawal 
document for 1 March, on which a passport number and expiry date were written by the 
cashier, as supporting evidence for the large withdrawal. And that passport number and 
expiry date are identical to those on the photocopy passport which Ive seen, which Ms B 
provided to the branch during the dispute.I consider the evidence of the genuine card, correct PIN, and in particular the passport 
evidence, mean that its most likely that Ms B carried out the disputed transactions herself.
I recognise that Ms B has said the late afternoon times for all the transactions mean that she 
couldnt have carried them out because she was caring for her mother all the time. I cant 
know the daily routines of Ms B and Mrs M, but I consider the factual evidence of the 
genuine card, PIN, and passport, outweighs what Ms B has said about this.
Ive also borne in mind that the pattern of withdrawals here isnt what any third party 
fraudster would do. The five disputed transactions took place over a period of a fortnight. 
Third party fraudsters wouldnt have waited that long to withdraw money, but would have 
taken out as much money as possible very quickly, before an account holder could realise 
and put a stop on the card. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its likely that the branch managers account 
of events was accurate, rather than Ms Bs. I think its more likely than not that Ms B carried 
out the disputed transactions herself, so I dont require NatWest to refund Ms B and Mrs Ms 
account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman