DRN-2648304
The complaint
Miss C complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to her irresponsibly.
Miss C also says that her offer to repay Loan 4 made to Lending Stream in November 2019 
was reasonable and it was wrong not to accept it.
 
What happened
Using information from Lending Streams records, here is a brief loan table of approved 
loans for Miss C. Each of Miss Cs loans overlapped and she repaid the first three early. 
Loan 4 remains unpaid.
Loan Date Amount Scheduled 
repayment 
dateActual 
repayment 
dateMonthly 
Repayments
1 22 April 
2018£170 31 October 
201824 October 
2018£57
2 28 August 
2018£310 15 February 
201910 January 
2019£101
3 7 November 
2018£410 26 April 
20198 February 
2019£128
4 26 January 
2019£530 19 July 2019 o/s £176
Miss C has explained that she was unemployed for each application and has produced 
some screenshots of her Enhanced Employment and Support Allowance (EESA) income 
and of her credit file, and several sets of bank statements. These cover most of the lending 
period but not all of it. They are difficult to understand as she used three accounts in different 
ways and transferred monies between them regularly. One of our adjudicators took time to 
liaise with Miss C to obtain as much background information as she was able to obtain and 
send surrounding her financial situation for the whole of the lending period. But the complete 
picture was not accomplished. 
 
One account with Bank1 was the one she cited in her applications to Lending Stream. The 
statements we have for this account covers 1 September 2018 to 31 January 2019. I have 
seen those Lending Stream credits appear on the statements for this account. Her EESA 
payments appear on these too. This account appears to be used for money coming in to 
Miss C. She has explained that she carried out a lot of transfers between accounts. And 
reviewing the statements I have for this account it seems that, once received, Miss C would 
transfer the money out to another of her accounts often done immediately. The balance was 
nearly always kept at £0 or just in credit or just overdrawn.
 
Another set of statements are for an account with Bank2, which looks to be a current 
account and we have copies for the period 1 August 2018 to end November 2018. This 
appears to receive money from one of Miss Cs other accounts and is used for bills, food 
shopping, spending in general. 
I have not analysed every single transaction over all the bank statements for all the months, 
(and I dont think that is expected of me) but overall it seems that the transferred sums from 
the Bank1 account do not often appear in the Bank2 current account statements we have 
copies of. So, the Bank1 transfers may, overall, go to Miss Cs third account - the Bank2 
savings account. And it may be that the money coming into the Bank2 current account is 
from her Bank2 savings account. Miss C has not been able to send us any copies of the 
savings account statements so I do not know the full picture and I do not know how much 
was in that savings account. 
 
In November 2019 Miss C was in arrears with Loan 4 and owed around £564. On 
19 November 2019 she offered to Lending Stream a one off repayment of £400 to clear the 
debt and close that account. Miss C explained that she had already repaid £170 on that loan 
and so she felt it was fair. Since then, there have been some negotiations between the 
parties to try to come to an arrangement on this last outstanding loan, but now Lending 
Stream says it will only accept £501 which covers the remaining outstanding principal sum. 
Miss C says it was wrong of Lending Stream not to accept her one-off offer in 
November 2019. 
Our adjudicator had tried to mediate between the parties to settle Loan 4 but unsuccessfully. 
His view was that he couldnt assess Miss Cs financial situation as he did not have enough 
evidence and so was not able to uphold her loans. And he did not think that Lending Stream 
was wrong to not accept Miss Cs £400 reduced balance offer in November 2019. But he did 
think that the recent £501 offer was a good one and recommended it to Miss C.
Miss Cs response in February 2021 was to explain that:
- she was arranging to enter bankruptcy
- she maintains that Lending Stream mis-sold the loans to her
- she is on unemployment benefits and unwell and not able to pay £501 now
- she is not able to deal with her finances
- her £400 offer was made to Lending Stream in November 2019 and she had to make 
financial arrangements to get that £400
- she wants Lending Stream to clear the loan 
- Miss C wants refunds of the previous loans and compensation because she feels she 
has been severely let down 
- she blames Lending Streams lack of checks for her impending bankruptcy
Miss C has mentioned health issues and that she has some evidence of that but none has 
been sent to us. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. My decision is that I do not uphold 
Miss Cs complaint. I explain further here.
The bank statements 
I have outlined in the what happened section of this decision the three bank accounts 
Miss C has told us about and for which we have received two sets of bank statements. 
I have noticed that one appeared to be used for loan credits and income and that balance 
was kept at £0 (or close to £0) most of the time. Money was transferred out almost as soon 
as it was received. 
 
I have noticed that the Bank2 current account statements credits do not always correlate 
with the Bank1 transfers and so I have deduced that Miss C must have transferred her 
income (or most of it) to what she has described as her savings account (the Bank2 savings 
account) and then transferred into the Bank2 current account the sums she needed to use 
for bills, TV, insurances, phone and car costs, purchases, and the repayments of loans.
 
This is a complicated set of financial statements and Miss C has explained there is money 
that is bounced round which makes my account looks like it had a high amount of money in.I have looked at the figures and tried to understand what her income and expenditure figures 
are. One example is that in all of October 2018 Miss Cs expenses for food purchases (not 
restaurant or take-away), bills, phone, TV, insurances and modest credit card repayments 
added up to around £593. Her income for October 2018 appears to have been £962. 
I have also seen that her income in October and November 2017 was around £1,440 for 
EESA. Its not clear why her income a year earlier was more than in October 2018. The 
difference I have seen may be that I do not have a complete set of records as I have 
explained earlier. 
 
However, I have also seen that for most of November 2018 Miss Cs Bank2 current account 
was in credit often by several hundred pounds. An £800 credit transferred from one of her 
other accounts was used to purchase an item from a website (which has been referenced on 
the statement) that appears to sell second hand bikes. And the next day a further £190 was 
spent at what appears to have been a service station which may link with that purchase. This 
was around the time she was in debt to Lending Stream for Loan 2 (repaid January 2019) 
and Miss C applied for Loan 3 (£410 on 7 November 2018). I may be mistaken about the 
item which looks to have been purchased, but the transactions show that she had the means 
to transfer two large sums amounting to £990 into her account and then spend that and still 
be in credit in that account. So, this does not demonstrate to me unaffordability.
Miss C has said she had other loans at the time but the statements I have, show payments 
out to Lending Stream only which fit with the loan table set out in this decision. So, I have not 
seen any evidence of Miss C having other current loans at that time. 
Miss C has shown us screenshots of part of a credit file report that does indicate she had a 
£720 outstanding loan with another high-cost short term lender taken Sept 2017. She says it 
was defaulted and I can see from Lending Streams credit searches that it knew about that 
defaulted account. A default on a credit file is not necessarily a reason for a lender not to 
lend. 
Miss C used to be represented by a third party and it sent to Lending Stream on her behalf 
as part of its complaint to it, an income and expenditure list (I&E). But I have not been able 
to verify those figures by using the evidence Miss C has sent in  her bank statements  and 
so I do not rely on those figures. 
For Loans 1 and 2, Miss C was a new customer to Lending Stream with applications for 
relatively modest sums. Miss C gave incomes and expenditure details to Lending Stream as 
part of her applications. It was reasonable for it to rely on Miss Cs declared income. Miss C 
had indicated that she had a monthly income of £1,089 and £1,200 and expenditure of £400 
and £475 respectively for Loans 1 and 2. These figures do demonstrate that Miss C had 
money left over and likely able to make the repayments. 
The credit checks Lending Stream carried out did not show enough in those records for 
Lending Stream to decide not to lend and I have come to the view that these were 
proportionate checks and I would not expect it to have done more. 
For Loan 3, I have demonstrated that what I have deduced from her very busy bank 
statements is that she was able to spend at least £990 (£800 plus £190) on what appears to 
have been a significant purchase. And even if I am wrong on that, I have seen that her bank 
statements were about £1,600 in credit in November 2018. So, I do not think that any 
additional checks carried out by Lending Stream at that time would have led it to decide that 
Miss C was not able to afford Loan 3. This £800 and £190 transfers into the account are likely to have come from her savings 
account and so it would have been useful to have had copies of the statements for that 
account. But without them I think its reasonable of me to think that Miss C had some 
additional funds available to draw on when needed. 
As for Loan 4, we have copies of Bank1 current account statements for December 2018 and 
January 2019. And we have the Bank2 current account statements for November 2018 
which I have referred to earlier. On the Bank1 statements I can see that Miss C had an 
income of just under £940 plus additional income of around £478 from an on-line account 
based abroad  these accounts are popular in the UK. And considering the information 
I have seen from the November 2018 outgoings, I think that its feasible Miss C was able to 
afford Loan 4. 
My decision is that I think Miss C was able to afford these loan repayments. I do not uphold 
her complaint. And it follows that I am not recommending that Loan 4 is written off which is 
what Miss C wants to happen.
The £400 offer to Lending Stream in November 2019
Miss C seems to be focussed on the fact that Lending Stream ought to have taken what she 
considered a good offer to close Loan 4. But the reality is that Miss C owed Lending Stream 
that money and usually a customer asks for an early settlement balance. The £400 offer was 
a significant amount less than the amount owed and Lending Stream did not have to accept 
it. 
It did come back to her in January 2020 to say it would accept £472. But that was not taken 
up. I do not think that Lending Stream was wrong to refuse the £400. And I cant say 
anymore about why the £472 was not accepted in January 2020. So, I do not uphold this 
part of Miss Cs complaint.
 
The February 2021 £501 offer for Loan 4
Our adjudicator has explained that Lending Stream is content to receive £501 (plus some 
pence) for that loan to clear it. That offer does represent a reduction in the total amount 
owed and in that respect is of benefit to Miss C. I can see that this is an improvement on the 
debt situation as its a reduction of it, and Lending Stream has demonstrated it wants to 
settle the account. So I understand why our adjudicator was recommending it to Miss C. 
But, having thought carefully about Miss Cs current situation, her adamant rejection of the 
offer, that she says she cannot afford the £501, and that she is on the brink of filing for 
bankruptcy, it does not seem right to endorse the offer and then expect Miss C to pay £501 
now. 
My endorsement of it may complicate matters further and I leave it to the parties  including 
Miss Cs future Trustee in Bankruptcy  to negotiate on it or decide to take up Lending 
Streams offer to pay a reduced balance. 
Other points raised recently
I do not think that Miss Cs request for compensation is appropriate in view of my decision to 
not uphold her complaint. 
I make no comment on her view that Lending Stream may have caused her impending 
bankruptcy.I am sorry that Miss C finds herself in this position and I hope that having some finality on 
this complaint may assist towards drawing some of her financial problems to a close. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint and although the offer to close 
Loan 4 with a reduced payment is an improvement I make no decision on that part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman