DRN-4256045
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited paid in 
settlement of a claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr S is unhappy with the valuation placed on his 
vehicle following a total loss claim under his policy.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ss claim should be upheld. She said Admirals valuation was 
within the range of valuations returned by the recognised motor industry trade guides our 
service relies on when considering complaints of this nature. She agreed Admiral had 
caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience in its handling of the claim. But she thought 
its apology and offer of £250 compensation was fair. So, she didnt think Admiral needed to 
do anything further.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators assessment. So, as no agreement had been reached, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to that reached by our investigator. So, I 
issued a provisional decision, to give the parties the opportunity to respond before I reached 
a final decision. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a slightly different outcome to that reached by 
our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Ss policy covers him for the market value of his vehicle, at the time of loss  
which is fairly standard within the motor insurance industry.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle: with one of a similar make, model, year, 
mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the terms market refers to where your vehicle was 
purchased. This value is based on research from industry recognised motor 
trade guides.
Admiral based its valuation on the higher of the two valuations it obtained from some 
of the recognised motor industry trade guides our service typically relies on when 
considering these complaints. It used a reasonable estimate of the mileage (given 
the car had been stolen and so a reading couldnt be obtained) and the correct date 
of loss when obtaining these valuations, which were:
Glasss: £37,610
CAP: £37,750
Mr S complains that the valuation placed on his vehicle by Admiral is too low. 
He says he is unable to replace his vehicle with one of a similar make and 
model for that amount. 
Our investigator obtained her own valuations from the four motor trade guides our 
service typically uses when assessing complaints about motor valuations  and this 
included checking the two guides Admiral had already used. She used the same 
mileage estimate and date of loss when obtaining these valuations, which provided 
the following market value figures:
Glasss: £37,610
CAP: £37,500
Cazoo (formerly Cazana): £41,348
AutoTrader: £42,782
Our services normal approach in these types of complaints, considers that a 
valuation within the range of valuations returned by the trade guides is typically fair. 
However, in this case there is considerable variance within the range of values, with 
two guides returning similar values at the lower end, and two the higher end. In 
circumstances like this, I think a valuation around the average of the four guides 
would deliver a fairer outcome. To be clear, this would be the average of the 
valuations Admiral obtained from Glasss (which produced the same result) and CAP 
(which produced a marginally higher result), and the valuations our investigator 
obtained from Cazoo and Autotrader. 
So, Im minded to decide that Admiral should increase the valuation on Mr S vehicle 
to £39,872.50. And to direct it to add 8% simple interest to any part of the settlement 
which remains unpaid, from the date Admiral decided to settle the claim for £37,750, 
to the date of settlement  to compensate Mr S for being deprived of funds he was 
reasonably entitled to under the terms of his policy.
I do appreciate that Admiral offered the higher of the two valuation guides it checked, 
which on face value doesnt seem unfair. However, given Mr S arguments about the 
relative rarity of the vehicle in the UK and the advertised prices he showed were 
available on the market, I think Admiral ought to have conducted more detailed 
investigations into the market value  as our investigator did. Had it done so, I think it 
would likely have discovered the discrepancy between the guides and realised that a 
valuation closer to the average would have been fairer.Ive also thought carefully about Mr S view that the sales adverts give a better 
reflection of the market value than the trade guides. But, as our investigator 
explained, our service typically finds the motor trade guides to be more persuasive 
than sales adverts, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures all of which are updated regularly. The guides also 
take into account regional variations. Were confident these guides give a good 
reflection of the true market value of a vehicle.
I have considered the adverts provided by Mr S, which is partly why I said Admiral 
ought to have carried out further investigations and/or checked additional guides. But 
I find the motor trade guides to be more persuasive than sales adverts (in isolation) 
because advertised prices are often the starting point of a negotiation and are what 
the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price the vehicle actually sells 
for. And in this particular case, Im mindful that some of the adverts Mr S has 
provided are for vehicles with significantly lower mileage than his, which is likely to 
have an impact on the advertised price and which wouldnt necessarily be line with 
his policy definition of market value. 
Based on all the above, I dont find the adverts provided by Mr S to be more 
persuasive than the valuations returned by the motor trade guides. But, as explained 
above, I do think a valuation of £39,872.50 is fairer, given the discrepancy between 
the four guides and the relative rarity of the vehicle in the UK.
Mr S has also complained about Admirals handling of his claim. He says the claims 
process took too long, he wasnt kept updated, he spent significant time on hold 
when calling for updates and that he wasnt given call backs when promised. Admiral 
accepted its service had fallen short and offered £250 compensation. I think that 
amount, along with Admirals apologies, is sufficient to fairly compensate Mr S for the 
impact of Admirals failings here. Ive carefully considered everything Mr S has said 
about his personal circumstances during this time and how Admirals failings 
exacerbated them. But taking everything into account, £250 is in line with what I 
would have awarded for these failings, had Admiral not made an offer.
However, as Im minded to decide that Admiral reached an unfair valuation on Mr S 
vehicle, I think he has suffered additional distress and inconvenience as a result of 
this. So, in addition to the £250 already offered for the service failings, I think Admiral 
should pay a further £100 to put things right.
I asked both parties to provide any additional comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision. 
Mr S responded and pointed out that some of the adverts he provided were for older cars 
than his yet were still more expensive. However, despite this, he confirmed he accepted my 
provisional decision.
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now 
passed, so Im moving forward with this, my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr S accepted my provisional decision, and Admiral hasnt provided a response. So, in the 
absence of any new evidence or arguments to consider, Ive reached the same conclusions 
outlined in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr S 
complaint.
 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:
Increase the settlement offer to £39,872.50, less the policy excess, and pay 8% 
simple interest on any part of the settlement which remains unpaid, calculated from 
the date Admiral made the decision to settle the claim at £37,750 to the date the 
payment is made.
Pay Mr S a total of £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman