DRN-3126749
The complaint
Mr O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) irresponsibly gave him 
four loans that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 8 January 2018 Mr O applied for and was given a personal loan for £1,000. Each 
subsequent loan repaid the former loan. On 23 April Mr O was given a loan of £1,800. On 7 
June 2018 he was given a loan for £1,700. And on 2 August 2019 Mr O took a loan for 
£2,500. 
On 2 December 2020, Mr O complained to NatWest to say that he was in financial 
difficulty before the account was opened and that adequate affordability checks werent 
carried out when the loans were provided. Mr O thought NatWest ought to have 
understood he had a gambling habit and not provided him with increased credit.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. NatWest didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
NatWest needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NatWest should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought NatWest shouldnt have provided 
Mr O with any of the loans. NatWest didnt agree with what our adjudicator said. It 
reminded us that the loans were afforded and disagreed that they were unaffordable. 
I understand that Mr Os credit file was free of adverse information at the time of the first 
loan. And I can see that Mr Os gambling habit doesnt show as an issue from the bank 
statements weve seen from the time. Id only expect NatWest to act on information 
available to them and I dont believe NatWest ought to have known about Mr Os habit. Mr 
O told us he hadnt made NatWest aware of this at the time. And it wouldnt have been 
easy to identify as there are hardly any items relating to gambling on Mr Os bank 
statements. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to lend on this basis. 
But I do think it was unreasonable of them to lend for other reasons. Ill explain why I say 
that. 
NatWest had access to information about Mr O from his current account. And I think that 
a proportionate check would have seen NatWest use the information about Mr O that they 
had at their disposal when making a lending decision. On 29 December 2017 Mr Os 
NatWest current account balance was already at £3,498.82 in debit. So, NatWest had 
already allowed Mr O to build up debt with them.
NatWest needed to take into account everything it knew about its customer when 
deciding to lend. In this case NatWest had an existing customer relationship with Mr O, as 
he held a current account with them. And the information on that account readily showed, 
or ought easily to have shown, that Mr O was borrowing heavily from payday loans. 
Indeed, the level of activity was such that in the month before the first loan, Mr O was 
committed to spending almost his entire net income on payday lending. That rose to a 
sum of more than twice his net monthly income committed to payday ending by the time 
of the second and third loans. 
And NatWest ought to have been able to see that through any basic enquiry about their 
customer. 
Proportionate checks would have shown NatWest that, despite its own process for 
calculating affordability, Mr O was having difficulty managing his money. And I think that 
proportionate checks will have shown NatWest that Mr O was already struggling to 
manage the credit he already had and that there was a significant risk increasing his 
indebtedness with a series of loans in these circumstances would lead to his 
indebtedness increasing unsustainably.
Thinking of that I have noted that in the time before his first loan to the point of his fourth 
loan, Mr Os balance in his current account had moved from £3,498.82 on December 29th 2017 to £5,494.26 on 31st July 2019. His indebtedness had increased on the current 
account alone with NatWest by almost £2,000, whilst the initial loan of £1,000 had risen to 
£2,500. 
So, I think that proportionate checks would likely have shown NatWest that Mr O was in 
difficulty with managing his account alongside his other debts and day-to-day living 
expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit could 
have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds 
available to meet his debts and regular outgoings. Or in this case that in increasing his 
debt, Mr O might take the risk of making more and more use of expensive short term 
lending. 
 
I think that Mr O lost out because NatWest provided him with a series of loans for further 
credit from January 2018 onwards. In my view, NatWests actions unfairly prolonged Mr 
Os indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period 
of time and the interest being added got him into further debt. 
In saying this Ive noted that NatWest has argued that the loans could have been used to 
pay off some of the payday lenders. There is, however, no evidence of that being 
discussed with Mr O at the time NatWest was making any of its lending decisions. I note 
that the second, third and fourth loans are classed as refinance loans. But I think that is 
because those loans included an amount to repay each previous loan, i.e. to refinance 
the existing loan. I think that is different to a consolidation loan to repay more expensive 
borrowing; in this case short term lending. And the first loan has a different code attached 
to it as the purpose of the loan; home improvements. So, it is not clear that the first loan in 
particular was provided to repay existing debt. 
Ive noted NatWests argument that Mr O afforded the loans, by which they mean he paid 
them back on time, and so they think the loans cant have been unaffordable. But that 
argument does not fully answer NatWests responsibilities to lend responsibly in the 
particular circumstances of this case. In any event, just because Mr O chose to pay back 
NatWest, doesnt mean the lending was affordable and sustainable to him. Its clear he 
only managed to pay NatWest back by borrowing heavily from other sources and getting 
himself further into debt. 
So, for the above reasons I uphold Mr Os complaint about NatWest. And so, NatWest 
should put things right.
Putting things right
As I dont think NatWest ought to have lent Mr O any of the loans in this complaint, I dont 
think its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. 
But I think Mr O should pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, NatWest should:
Rework the loans removing all interest and charges that have been applied, so that 
Mr O only needs to pay back the capital he borrowed. 
If Mr O has paid back more than the capital he borrowed, any overpayments  should 
be refunded to him along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement. NatWest should also remove all 
adverse information regarding these loans from Mr Os credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NatWest should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr O for the remaining amount. Once Mr O has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the loans should be 
removed from his credit file. *HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Our investigator felt NatWest should also pay Mr O £150 for the inconvenience of whats 
happened. But the redress above is designed to put Mr O in the situation as if it hadnt 
happened. And Ive seen no evidence that Mr O has suffered any more delay, frustration 
or effort in bringing his complaint to us than is usual in those circumstances. So, I make 
no award for inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im fully upholding Mr Os complaint. National Westminster Bank 
Plc should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman