DRN-1942691
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Mr O between September 2013 
and June 2015. 
Heres a loan table setting out details of the loans: 
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalmentsLoan
AmountHighest Monthly
Repayment
1 10/09/2013 30/09/2013 1 £250.00 £337.50
2 30/09/2013 06/02/2014 1 £700.00 £910.00
3 14/05/2015 12/06/2015 6 £310.00 £168.22
4 15/06/2015 30/11/2015 6 £1,000.00 £373.33
Our adjudicators overall view was that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for 
Mr Lender to have provided loans 1, 3 and 4 to Mr O. But he felt that the repayments on 
loan 2 were a significant proportion of Mr Os income and so there was a risk he wouldnt 
have been able to pay his existing outgoings without having to borrow again. For these 
reasons, our adjudicator felt it was unlikely that Mr O wouldve been able to sustainably meet 
his repayments for this loan. So he thought Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr O loan 3.
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicators view that it shouldnt have lent loan 3 to Mr O. 
Mainly it said that although Mr Os highest repayment (as per his contract) represented 
40% of his income, upon settling his account he was given a discount of £273.00, 
meaning his repayment represented just 28% of his income. Mr Lender said that Mr O 
had disposable income of £1,290 so the loan shouldve been affordable.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Mr O didnt ask Mr Lender for any more loans during the period February 2014  May 2015. 
That gap in lending seems long enough to me for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr O 
mightve put his finances in order during this period. This meant that when his borrowing 
started again, and Mr O applied for loan 3, he was effectively starting over. So it was fair for 
Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess his lending requests 
accordingly.Looking at loans 1, 3 and 4, like our adjudicator, I think that the amounts that Mr O needed 
to repay wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the take home pay hed 
declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Os circumstances 
at the time, and his borrowing history at that time with Mr Lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr O for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. So Im not 
upholding Mr Os complaint about loans 1, 3 and 4.
But as our adjudicator explained, given the particular circumstances of Mr Os case, I think 
that Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that loan 2 was likely to be unsustainable and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan. 
When he asked for loan 2, Mr Lenders own records show it relied on information that 
suggested Mr Os income was £2,240 and his declared expenses at that time were £950.  
So I think Mr Lender ought to have realised that the repayment of £910 that Mr O had to 
make to pay loan 3 was such a significant proportion of his take home pay that in reality, this 
loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him.
Mr Lender was also aware that Mr O took out loan 2 the same day that he repaid loan 1  
and it was for a lot more money than the loan hed just repaid. Also, Mr O arranged in 
advance to make an interest only repayment while he was setting up the loan  which meant 
he could make a smaller repayment. I think these were all potential signs that Mr O mightve 
had money problems and he would find it hard to pay loan 2 in a way that was sustainable 
for him. And this view is borne out by the fact that in the event, Mr O needed extra time to 
pay loan 2  he made three further interest only payments before finally paying this loan. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mr Lender has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. The fact that Mr Lender discounted the loan after Mr O had settled his 
account doesnt mean that the repayments he signed up to make were affordable for him
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Mr Lender shouldve realised that it was unfair to 
provide loan 2 to Mr O. 
This means Im upholding the complaint about loan 2 and Mr Lender should put things right. 
Putting things right
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr O towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 2, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr O which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr O originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr O the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information Mr Lender has recorded on Mr Os credit file for 
loan 2.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Os complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr O as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman