DRN-4261030
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of their home insurance 
(buildings) claim. 
Mr and Mrs H are joint policy holders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Mr H, Ill refer mainly to him in my decision.
Ageas is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Ageas has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Ageas includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In November 2021, Mr H made a claim under his home insurance policy with Ageas after his 
property was damaged in a storm. A tree fell against the porch, causing damage to the roof, 
window and guttering.
Ageas instructed a claims management company (E) to deal with the claim. E arranged for 
contractors (C) to visit the property and carry out a survey. 
Mr H was provided with a copy of the scope of works which detailed the repair works 
deemed necessary to reinstate his property to its pre-loss condition. He was told he would 
need to pay C the policy excess of £300 prior to the repair works commencing. Mr H paid C 
this in January 2022.
In May 2022, Mr H sent an email to E raising concerns about the handling of the claim. He 
said there had been a number of missed appointments and unfulfilled obligations. He said no 
painting work had taken place and the broken window hadnt been fixed. He also detailed his 
concerns about poor workmanship and provided pictures to illustrate this. In August 2022, 
Mr H raised a complaint with Ageas and forwarded the email it had sent to E in May.
In response to Mr Hs complaint, Ageas said E had viewed the poor workmanship and 
incomplete work as snagging issues that they had every intention of completing. E had told 
Ageas the works had now been done and theyd closed their file. Ageas said it could see E 
had been in regular contact with Mr H throughout the claims progress, but it agreed they 
could have been more proactive in keeping him up to date. 
Mr H was unhappy with Ageas investigation of the matter. He said five hours had been 
allocated to painting on the scope of works but no decorator had been sent. Mr H had ended 
up doing this work himself. Hed also had to properly secure the down-pipe after the 
snagging repair had taken place. He said the regular contact from E was usually prompted 
by Mr H having to contact E and C to complain about the lack of action. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2023, where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly.
The policy terms say:
If we approve your claim, well ask you to pay the excess. Well then repair or replace your 
damaged, lost or stolen items, or rebuild your property, depending on the type of claim. 
Alternatively, we may make you a cash offer
Ageas instructed E to manage the claim, who in turn arranged for its contractor, C to ensure 
that the repairs were carried out. However, as the insurer, Ageas was ultimately responsible 
for ensuring that repairs were completed to a satisfactory standard in a reasonable 
timeframe. 
The information from both parties shows that Mr H paid the policy excess of £300 in January 
2022. Mr H has provided a timeline of his claim, including his communication with Ageas and 
its agents. Ive considered this alongside the timeline E provided Ageas when it was 
investigating the complaint.
Ive also seen an email Mr H sent to E in May 2022, which he forwarded to Ageas in August 
2022. In this email Mr H detailed his concerns about poor workmanship and attached 
photographs. He also said:
The scope of works listed in your letter included painting (no painting has taken place) and 
replacement of damaged window (the window remains broken).
In the email he sent to Ageas in August, Mr H said that the broken window had satisfactorily 
been repaired since the pictures had been taken. But he went on to say:
Im more than happy to arrange for a local carpenter/joiner/decorator, whom I have used in 
the past and who has always done a professional job to carry out the rectifying work.
I can see that Ageas got in touch with E after receiving Mr Hs complaint. Its notes suggest 
that E said there were snagging issues. And in an email dated 24 August 2022, E told Ageas 
that they had spoken to Mr H and hed confirmed the snagging works had been completed.
In its response to Mr Hs complaint, Ageas doesnt appear to have given any consideration 
to the length of time it took for the repairs to be completed or the impact this might have had 
on Mr and Mrs H.
In its most recent correspondence with our service Ageas said Mr H hadnt previously 
mentioned his concerns about the window not being repaired for six months. Mr H might not 
have specifically said he was concerned about being vulnerable and a potential target for 
burglars before. However, in his email to E of May 2022, (which was forwarded to Ageas 
when he complained) Mr H said his window remained broken and one of the attached 
photographs shows it being covered by a black plastic bag. So, Im satisfied that Mr Hs 
concerns about the delay in the window being fixed is within the scope of this complaint.
The scope of works from January 2022 includes: To replace damaged glass window and 
framework and windowcil [sic]The only reference to the window in Es brief timeline is a note on 3 April 2022 saying that 
they updated Mr H with dates for 04/04 to start glazier works.
According to Mr Hs more detailed timeline, the glazier inspected the window on 25 March. 
However, when Mr H contacted C on 29 April, there was no record of a quote from the 
glazier. Mr H needed to chase up C about the glazier quote again on 10 May and the 
window wasnt repaired until early June 2022.
Ive no reason to doubt Mr Hs version of events. There seems to have been an 
unreasonable delay in getting the window fixed. This resulted in inconvenience for Mr H as 
he had to chase this up. Im also persuaded that this was a safety concern for Mr and Mrs H.
Ageas says that Mr H didnt make it aware that he had carried out painting work himself 
during his complaint. I appreciate Ageas might not have been aware of this when it issued its 
final response letter of 1 September 2022. However, Ageas included a letter that it received 
from Mr H a few weeks after this in the paperwork it sent to us. 
In this letter Mr H says that the paint work in the scope of works did not take place. He says: 
In the end, I did the painting (in August 2022). No decorator appeared during the months of 
frustration I endured in trying to get (E) and (C) to complete the job.
So, Im satisfied that Mr H made Ageas aware that hed carried out the painting work himself 
before he brought his complaint to our service. 
The scope of works E sent to Mr H in January 2022 includes Gloss paint to existing external 
surfaces, windows, doors, eaves etc. So, Im also satisfied that this was something that 
should have been completed by Ageas agents.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Ageas agents carried out the work or any 
explanation as to why it hadnt yet been completed around seven months after Ageas 
accepted the claim and Mr H paid the excess. Im persuaded by Mr Hs testimony, that he 
carried out the work himself after becoming frustrated with the lack of progress and poor 
communication from Ageas and its agents. 
I appreciate that Ageas wants to see evidence (such as receipts) before considering 
reimbursing Mr H for costs. However, I think Mr H is looking for an acknowledgement that 
Ageas didnt fulfil its obligation and compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result.
Most of the other snagging issues appear to have been fixed by the end of August 2022. 
However, I think the overall handling of Mr Hs claim has been poor. There were delays in 
the works being completed to a satisfactory standard and the painting work doesnt appear 
to have been completed by Ageas agents at all. Ageas has acknowledged that its agents 
could have done more to keep Mr H up to date. And Mr H says most of the contact was 
prompted by him. This caused unnecessary frustration and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs H. 
So, I think it would be fair for Ageas to pay them £300 to compensate them for this.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Ageas said it had nothing further to add and accepted my terms for resolution. Mr H said he 
and Mrs H were happy with the very fair and reasonable summary that led to my provisional 
decision regarding their complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to change them.
Putting things right
Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs H £300 for distress and inconvenience.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct Ageas 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman