DRN-3245284
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the payments she made to several 
scam recovery firms.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
I understand that Miss A was the victim of an investment scam in 2018 through which she 
lost a significant amount of money. A complaint about Santanders actions in relation to this 
scam has been considered separately. Our Investigator upheld that complaint. Miss A 
accepted the Investigators recommendations and Santander agreed to settle the matter. 
Relevant to this complaint are the payments Miss A made after this. These were made 
between February 2019 and November 2019 to several firms who said they could help her 
recover the money shed lost to the investment scam in 2018. Miss A said she was 
desperate to recover the sum shed lost and believed these firms were going to help her get 
her money back.  
Miss A says the first recovery firm she spoke to, who Ill refer to as R, all but guaranteed the 
return of the money shed lost in 2018. She made a payment to R in February 2019 from her 
current account held with Santander. It was an international transfer totalling £2,125 
(inclusive of fees and expenses). After making the payment, Miss A received some 
paperwork, which contained some questionable information. This is when she realised R 
were likely not a legitimate company and raised it with Santanders Fraud Team. After 
investigating Santander concluded that it would not be refunding Miss As loss.  
Having lost even more money Miss A says her desperation was at an all time high. She 
found another recovery firm, who Ill refer to as B. Having had a bad experience with R, 
Miss A carried out her own checks online  everything appeared professional and genuine. 
She was further reassured of Bs legitimacy after speaking to one of its clients and a 
company representative. She was led to believe she could get all her money back. So 
between March 2019 and May 2019 she used her Santander Mastercard credit card to make 
four payments to B, totalling £4,395.75. Upon receipt of each payment, Miss S was asked to 
complete some paperwork and B provided her with an update on the progress of the 
investigation. Miss As testimony is that after the fourth payment was taken she was asked to 
share with Santander a fraud investigation appeal form  which B had provided that set out 
her appeal in relation to the scam she fell victim to in 2018. She handed this in at her local 
Santander branch sometime in July 2019. 
Miss A regularly chased B for an update  only to be told each time that it was working very 
hard on her case and asked that she be patient. Then in November 2019, Miss A received a 
call from another company who Ill refer to as F. It informed Miss A that her contact details 
had been passed over by B, as it had a settlement for her, for around £87,700. It said this 
could be paid to her by bank transfer or to her bitcoin wallet. However, to release those 
funds she would need to pay a processing fee of £1,700. It told her once the fee had been 
paid the funds would be released within one or two days and should reach her by the fourth 
day. As the call from F was unexpected  to reassure herself, Miss A contacted B to confirm 
if the contact from F was genuine. B confirmed it was, so she went ahead and made the 
payment using her Santander credit card. The merchant Miss A paid was a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange  J. 
Following this, no funds arrived, and B and F ceased communication. Miss A concluded 
shed likely been scammed. She reported this to Santander and asked for its help to get her 
money back.
Ultimately, Santander said: 
- The initial payment from Miss As current account was not a card payment therefore 
it could not be considered under the disputes process (chargeback scheme) or as a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
- It didnt raise chargeback claims in relation to the payments Miss A made to B as it 
didnt think they had a reasonable prospect of success. And in the absence of a 
contract it could not review if B has breached any contract, so it declined the claim 
under section 75.
Unhappy with Santanders response Miss A referred the matter to our Service. One of our 
Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
Miss A disagrees and asked for her complaint to be reviewed again. The matter was passed 
to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Miss A has faced in recent years  its clear shes 
had a far from easy time. I do understand she wants to do all she can to recover the money 
shes lost. Miss A says she thought banks could help if a scam could be proven. So much of 
her submissions focus on proving the merchants were operating fraudulently. But Im afraid 
simply being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle Miss A to a refund. Its 
common ground that all the disputed payments were authorised by Miss A for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). So for me to uphold this complaint and 
direct Santander to pay Miss As losses Id need to be persuaded that Santander made a 
mistake when processing the payments that resulted in Miss As loss or it has treated her 
unfairly when assisting with the recovery of those funds.
For ease Ill address my findings in relation to each merchant separately. Payment to R
Theres not much more I can add to what the Investigator has concluded. 
Firstly, as the payment Miss A made for Rs service was an international transfer  not a 
card payment  it doesnt meet the criteria to be considered under the chargeback dispute 
process or as a section 75 claim.  
Im also satisfied at the time of processing the payment the transaction wouldnt have 
appeared particularly unusual to Santander and I dont think there were sufficient grounds for 
it to intervene before the payment was made. Miss A argues had it not been for the scam 
payments in 2018 the payment to R wouldve been unusual for her account. Ive carefully 
reviewed Miss As banks statements in the months leading up to the payment made to R and 
I can see that Miss A made several other payments (not related to the scam) which were 
larger than the payment disputed here. So in these circumstances a payment totalling 
£2,125 (inclusive of fees and expenses) isnt sufficiently large enough or unusual enough 
that it ought to have triggered an alert or given grounds for suspecting fraud. I also dont 
agree that simply because the payment was an international transfer and/or Miss A had 
fallen victim to a scam in 2018 meant Santander needed to do more in relation to this 
payment.
     
Theres limited information about the steps Santander took when notified by Miss A that she 
believed R were operating a scam. I appreciate Miss A says she notified Santander as soon 
as she became aware but commonly payments obtained in a fraudulent manner are quickly 
removed from the recipient account before the fraud is identified, reported and the account 
blocked. So, on balance, given the time between the payment being made and when Miss A 
says she reported the matter I think its unlikely that her funds wouldve been recoverable 
even if Santander had immediately, upon notification, contacted the international bank to 
report the fraud.  
Payments to B 
The four payments to B were made using Miss As Santander Mastercard credit card. 
Ive thought about whether Santander couldve reasonably done anything more to prevent 
Miss As loss at the time the payments were processed. Having carefully considered this, I 
think it would be too high a burden to expect a credit card provider to become suspicious of 
fraud or financial crime just on the basis of a series of four recurrent credit card payments of 
£1,097.20, £548.60, £1,097.20 and £1,652.75, which were also several weeks apart. So Im 
satisfied Santander have not acted unreasonably by not intervening. Therefore, I cant fairly 
ask it to pay Miss As losses on that basis. 
The potential options available to Santander to assist Miss A in the recovery of her funds 
were chargeback claims or a section 75 claim. Santander decided not to pursue chargeback claims. Based on the information Miss A had 
provided it didnt believe there was a reasonable prospect of success under Mastercards 
scheme rules. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good 
practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. That 
being said, Santander are bound by Mastercards scheme rules which are generally quite 
specific in what evidence is required for a valid claim. Miss As claim is B didnt provide her 
with the services it promised. She told Santander she was led to believe she would get all 
the money which was lost to the scam in 2018 back. Miss A did not provide any 
documentary evidence of the services she was expecting in return for the payments. So in 
these circumstances, I think Santander choosing not to raise chargeback claims was neither 
an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of its discretion. 
Ive also considered section 75 which gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against the 
supplier of goods or services. But in this case, Miss A hasnt been able to provide a contract 
between her and B, to evidence what services were agreed between the two parties, and 
what Miss S actually paid for under the contract. I dont think theres enough evidence of a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. Therefore, I dont think its unfair that Santander 
turned down Miss As claim under section 75.  
Payment to F
The disputed payment of £1,700 was made in November 2019 using Miss As Santander 
Mastercard credit card and to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange  J. Im satisfied that 
the payment wouldnt have stood out as being particularly unusual or suspicious to 
Santander. It follows that I dont think there were sufficient grounds for it to have intervened 
before the payment was processed. So I cant fairly say Santander have acted unreasonably 
by not intervening here.
I understand the nature of Miss As claim to be that shes been scammed by F. But here the 
payment was made to J and not to F directly. This means that a chargeback claim can only 
be considered against the merchant that received the funds (here J), and in relation to the 
service it provided. As Ive explained above there is no right to a chargeback. If a card 
issuer thinks there is no reasonable chance of the claim succeeding it can choose not to 
raise a chargeback. In these circumstances, I dont think the outcome reached, and 
Santanders decision to not raise a chargeback claim was unreasonable. With J being a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange its most likely it wouldve defended the claim; and been 
able to evidence that it simply did what was asked of it: in return for Miss As Mastercard 
payment, it exchanged and remitted an equivalent amount in cryptocurrency to the wallet 
address that it had been provided with. Whilst I appreciate Miss A was tricked into making 
the payment to J by F. For the purposes of Mastercards scheme rules it would be 
considered that Miss A received the service she paid J for. 
For a section 75 claim to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met, one of 
which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties.
Miss As claim is that F didnt provide her with the services/goods it promised (a settlement 
amount of around £87,700) in return for the payment of £1,700 she made using her 
Santander credit card. So for the purposes of the DCS agreement: Miss A is the debtor; 
Santander the creditor; and F the supplier. But the payment here was made to J not to F. 
So For Miss As claim to be covered under the joint liability provision of section 75 I would 
need to see evidence that would satisfy me that J were a party to the contract between 
Miss A and F as there is no right under section 75 to pursue a like claim against a third party 
who was not privy to the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. As Ive not seen any evidence linking J to the supplier  F, it follows that Miss A doesnt have 
the required DCS agreement in place to make a section 75 claim. So I cant fairly say 
Santander ought to have done more under section 75.
And even if I were to consider J to be the supplier, as it appears to be the case that it did 
nothing wrong, there could not reasonably be a successful like claim against Santander (the 
creditor).
I appreciate Miss A will likely be extremely disappointed with this. I know she feels very 
strongly that Santander ought to have done more to protect her and assist her in recovering 
her funds. But, for the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Santander ought to 
have done more at the time the disputed payments were processed and I think it has acted 
fairly and reasonably (where applicable) in connection with any rights or responsibilities 
under Mastercards chargeback scheme and/or under section 75, so I cannot uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Miss As loss my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman