DRN-3029176
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss C and Mr D say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold 
them PPI.
The policy was part of a packaged protection plan called Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). The TMPP included the choice of a critical illness policy and a life insurance policy 
as well as the PPI policy. In this decision Ive only considered Miss C and Mr Ds complaint 
about the PPI policy. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes 
Miss C and Mr Ds circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Halifax 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Miss C and Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss C and Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Miss C and Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event Halifax has offered to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Miss C and Mr D say the PPI was included as part of the mortgage package, but I think it 
most likely Halifax made it clear to Miss C and Mr D they didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. Ill explain why.
Halifax hasnt been able to give us much paperwork from the time of the sale but given 
how long ago this was I dont find this surprising. And businesses arent obliged to keep 
paperwork indefinitely. But I do know about these sales as Ive seen many similar ones 
from around the time the PPI was sold to Miss C and Mr D. From what I have seen with 
similar sales Miss C and Mr D would have been given a choice about what elements of 
the TMPP policy they wanted. And I see that the PPI  which provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment in the event the policy holder wasnt able to work 
 was to be for the sole benefit of Mr D (Miss C wasnt working at the time) but that both 
Miss C and Mr D chose life and critical illness cover. This demonstrates to me they 
wanted to protect their financial affairs as much as possible and made a decision about 
the elements of the TMPP that would be of most benefit to them. 
And from what I know from other sales they would have had all of the TMPP elements 
set out on a form. This would show which elements they had accepted, and the costs 
involved. They would have also need to have completed a bank direct debit mandate in 
order of the monthly premiums for the policy to have been taken from their bank account. 
So, taking all of this into account, I think its much more likely Miss C and Mr D knew the 
PPI was optional, but they decided to cover their mortgage payments upon application. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss C and Mr D, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Miss C and Mr Ds circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, 
Mr D was eligible for the cover and although Mr D had existing means  the employee 
benefits he told us about  they still seem to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ds employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And Mr D hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss C and Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss C and Mr D as 
I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. Miss C and Mr D have said they were financially 
stretched at the time but havent given us any evidence for me to consider. And in the 
absence of such evidence and bearing in mind the several elements of the policy they 
chose to take, its difficult for me to conclude it was unaffordable for them  so it seems 
like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont 
think Miss C and Mr D would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss C and Mr Ds circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So, I think they 
would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.Overall, I consider that Miss C and Mr D would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also 
think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss C and Mr Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss C and Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific 
facts and circumstances of Miss C and Mr Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to 
all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss C and Mr Ds particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C and Mr D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Miss C and Mr Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of 
the complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Miss C and Mr D should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Halifax failed to tell Miss C and Mr D about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss C and Mr D wouldnt 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshiphave taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should 
receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Miss C and Mr Ds PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Miss C and Mr Ds 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy.
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Miss C and Mr D about the commission. So, it follows that 
I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship  I dont think Halifax treated 
Miss C and Mr D unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Miss C and Mr D back any of the commission they 
paid for the PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Miss C and Mr D some of the cost of the 
PPI to compensate Miss C and Mr D as if it had treated them unfairly. So, I dont think it 
needs to do anything more.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss C and Mr Ds complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss C and Mr D paid for the 
PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to                
Miss C and Mr D. Bank of Scotland Plc should now make arrangements to pay Miss C and 
Mr D if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman