DRN-3778022
The complaint
Mr Y complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined his claim for storm damage under his 
home buildings insurance policy.  
What happened
In February 2022, having returned from a week away, Mr Y discovered five hip tiles had 
blown off his roof. He obtained quotes from several builders for around £2,000 to carry out 
the repairs. He says the builders were certain the damage was the result of a storm. 
Mr Y made a claim to QIC. He says it took several weeks to register this. A surveyor was 
arranged to inspect the damage but didnt turn up. He says an inspection subsequently took 
place two weeks later in Mid-March 2022. Mr Y says the surveyor told him the damage was 
covered and offered £1,100 for the repairs. This wasnt enough to cover the work so Mr Y 
asked QIC to arrange this. 
In April 2022 Mr Y says a contractor visited to inspect the damage. He told Mr Y he needed 
to produce a new scope of works for QIC. At the end of May, after chasing QIC, Mr Y 
received an email confirming scaffolding would be erected at the start of June. But prior to 
work commencing he was told the damage wasnt covered, due to the aged condition of the 
roof. QIC declined his claim and offered £200 for the delay in reaching this decision. 
Mr Y says QIC referred to damage on the ridge, when it was the hip tiles that were blown off. 
He also says all hip and ridge tiles had been reset and old tiles replaced in 2014. He didnt 
think QIC had treated him fairly and so referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She thought QICs decision was reasonable based on its 
surveyors findings and the photos provided. And that the compensation offered was fair.
Mr Y didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline the claim.
Mr Ys policy provides cover in the event of damage caused during a storm. QIC doesnt 
dispute that there were storm conditions at the time Mr Ys loss occurred. So, I neednt 
consider this point further and can move on to the second question. 
Mr Y describes five hip tiles that were blown off his roof. I think this is typical of the damage 
caused by a storm. So, the answer to question two is yes.
Finally, I need to be satisfied that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
Ive read the report completed by the surveyor that first inspected Mr Ys roof. Its fairly brief, 
but says:
Six hip tiles have come loose and will require replacing to the rear elevation of the roof. Full 
access will be required.
Proximate cause  Recent storm event.
Based on this information the cause of the damage was thought to be the storm conditions. 
However, in its complaint response QIC refers to photos that were taken by its field team 
and reviewed by its in-house surveyor. The surveyors notes say:
Upon review, [the] claim has been incorrectly validated. The hip tiles have debonded from 
the mortar and have fell off in the wind. There is also evidence of other cracked hip tiles near 
the chimney which also cannot be attributed to the storm.
reviewing the sv photos the ridge shows areas of decay and deterioration allowing the 
mortar to debond the tiles from the ridge, there is no BAAD on the policy so we cannot cover 
the falling tiles either.   
  
Ive looked at the photos of the roof taken by QIC. These were taken from an elevated 
position. I can see the cracked hip tile referred to by the in-house surveyor. In other photos 
its apparent that the mortar is in a deteriorated condition with cracks and gaps visible. I think 
this evidence supports the surveyors opinion that the mortar is deteriorated, and the tiles 
had de-bonded allowing the wind to blow them off the roof. So, I dont think the storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage caused. 
In its complaint response QIC refers to the General Exclusions section of its policy terms, 
which it has relied on to decline Mr Ys claim. The policy terms say:
The following exclusions apply to all sections of this policy:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
- wear and tear;
- gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not); and
- costs that arise from using or maintaining your buildings and contents normally.
    
QIC also highlights section one of its policy terms regarding what isnt covered under storm 
damage. This says, anything that happens gradually.  I think the terms are clear that gradual deterioration of the roof isnt something that is 
covered by Mr Ys policy. I acknowledge his comments that the ridge and hip tiles were re-
bedded in 2014. I havent seen evidence of this, but QICs decision was based on a visual 
inspection of the current condition of the tiles and the mortar holding them in place. Im 
satisfied its decision that the roof is in a deteriorated state is reasonable based on the 
evidence. 
I can understand why Mr Y was upset when QIC declined his claim having originally 
confirmed it would arrange for the repairs. It took some time to get to this point, which was 
immediately prior to the date works were to begin. In the circumstances I think its 
reasonable that QIC compensates Mr Y for the inconvenience and upset this caused him. 
But I think its offer of £200 is fair. 
In summary I dont think QIC behaved unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining 
Mr Ys claim. It didnt treat him fairly when initially confirming the claim would be accepted, 
but it has offered reasonable compensation for this. So, I cant fairly ask it to do any more to 
resolve Mr Ys complaint. 
Mr Y refers to being discriminated against by the decision to decline his claim. Our 
investigator explained he can raise his complaint with QIC, but as he has yet to do so, it 
cant form part of my consideration here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman