DRN-4164272
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has sent him unsolicited e-mails.
What happened
Mr L says he asked HSBC to stop sending him any unsolicited e-mails or market research e-
mails. He says despite that request and promise it would not, HSBC has continued to send 
him such material by e-mail. Mr L would like compensation for what took place and for the e-
mails to stop.
HSBC says it sent Mr L generic e-mails which it sent to all its customers. It says the e-mails 
were about support or advice it could give customers. HSBC says it will continue to send 
such material and didnt tell Mr L it would not send such material. It says Mr L could remove 
his e-mail address from its records or could consider moving banks.
Mr L brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the e-mails were not marketing e-mails and thought Mr L had the option 
of either moving banks or removing his e-mail.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and in summary says he was told in a telephone call he would 
not receive this sort of e-mail.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have listened carefully to the telephone call between Mr L and HSBC. Im satisfied that Mr 
L asked about his settings and was told he would not receive any marketing e-mails or 
market research e-mails or calls.
I have also looked at the material Mr L was sent. I can see he was sent information about 
support HSBC could provide on issues such as the cost of living, mental health issues and 
financial problems. I cant see how any of those topics can be described as marketing or 
market research and am satisfied they were standard e-mails offering help rather than for 
example trying to sell a product. Im also satisfied that HSBC has fairly told Mr L that it 
doesnt regard that information as marketing and has sent it to all of its customers. So, I find 
that its up to Mr L to decide in those circumstances if he wishes to bank with a business that 
has made clear it will send by e-mail that sort of information. I also think its up to business 
when exercising its commercial judgement what information or assistance it provides to 
customers in circumstances where I am satisfied its not marketing, or information designed 
to sell a product.
I can see that Mr L was sent an e-mail after the telephone call asking for feedback about the 
call. I appreciate that Mr L may say that was an attempt at market research. But Im satisfied 
that it was simply a request for feedback about a call and cant fairly conclude that was a 
marketing or market research e-mail.
Overall, I dont think HSBC has misled Mr L or contacted him in a way it said it would not. I 
also find HSBC has fairly offered to remove Mr Ls e-mail address from its systems and fairly 
made it clear that Mr L will continue to receive such e-mails which it regards as important. It 
is of course a matter for Mr L to decide if he wishes to continue his business relationship with 
HSBC in those circumstances. It follows that I cant fairly order HSBC pay the redress Mr L 
would like or do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman