DRN-4319404
The complaint
Miss B and Mr B have complained to QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) about delays as part of a claim 
under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B and Mr B contacted QIC to make a claim for an escape of water in their home. They 
later complained to QIC about delays with the claim, issues with the alternative 
accommodation and with fixing the shower.
When QIC replied, it apologised for any inconvenience caused. It offered £150 
compensation for the couple of days the alternative accommodation wasnt extended and 
£50 for the delay in reimbursing the plumber.
So, Miss B and Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He 
said there were avoidable delays with progressing the claim that caused distress over and 
above the level normally expected as part of a claim. He said QIC should pay a total of £450 
compensation.
QIC thought the amount of compensation was too high. Miss B and Mr B thought the 
compensation was too low. So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint and for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
I will explain why.
QIC told this service there were delays with progressing the claim, but has said this was 
because of the volume of claims it was dealing with at the time. QIC seemed to send a 
surveyor promptly. However, it was the follow-up to this, including installing drying 
equipment, that was delayed. This affected the amount of time that Miss B and Mr B needed 
alternative accommodation, which I think QIC could have foreseen at the time. 
In my view, there was a lot of uncertainty for Miss B and Mr B about the alternative 
accommodation. QIC knew it was dealing with a high volume of claims and that this was 
likely to impact the progress of claims, but Miss B and Mr B kept having to ask to extend 
their accommodation and to query the payments for the accommodation costs. Because of 
the uncertainty, Miss B and Mr B also had to move out of their alternative accommodation a 
few times and then move back in, as other people had already made bookings before Miss B 
and Mr B could extend their stay. So, I think that caused Miss B and Mr B an increased level 
of inconvenience, including because they both sometimes needed to be able to use the 
property during the day, but on some occasions were unable to do so when they had to 
check out temporarily and then could only check into a hotel later that day.
Miss B and Mr B have also said they werent aware they needed to arrange to fix the shower 
themselves. QIC has said it told Miss B and Mr B to do this early in the claim. It said Miss B 
and Mr B were advised they needed to arrange a plumber and that they werent told the 
shower was covered as part of the claim. It also said it later told Mr B, via the portal, that he 
needed to fix the shower, which it said Mr B hadnt disputed. Miss B and Mr B said they 
werent told they needed to repair the shower until later in the claim, shortly before they were 
expected to return home. 
Ive read the portal messages and listened to a phone call from early in the claim where the 
plumbing and electrics were discussed. Based on what Ive seen and listened to, I think the 
initial discussions and related portal message were about the leak itself and the need to 
ensure this was stopped. I dont think it was clear this was also meant to include the shower 
itself. 
A couple of months later, there was a discussion via the portal about repairing the shower 
and replacing the contents and that the accommodation would be extended by two weeks, 
which QIC said should allow sufficient time to do this. Looking at what happened, I dont 
think it was clear at the start of the claim that Miss B and Mr B were expected to repair the 
shower, which I note QIC later said it would reimburse the costs for. Im also aware Miss B 
and Mr B said they werent aware. As QIC was assessing the level of damage and the work 
required, I think it could have been clearer on this issue earlier in the claim to enable Miss B 
and Mr B to take action earlier.
So, Ive thought about compensation. I think Miss B and Mr B were caused a greater level of 
inconvenience than I would normally expect to see as part of a claim. Im aware QIC already 
offered Miss B and Mr B compensation for not extending the accommodation for a few days 
at the end of the claim. Im also aware QIC has said it was dealing with a high volume of 
claims at the time but, even so, I think it could have taken steps to reduce the impact on 
Miss B and Mr B. So, I think QIC should pay a total of £450, which includes the £200 it 
previously offered, to reflect the impact more fairly on Miss B and Mr B.
Putting things right
QIC should pay Miss B and Mr B a total of £450 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to pay Miss B and Mr B a total of £450 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman