DRN-3221290
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain on behalf of their company H. Theyre unhappy that Barclays Bank
UK PLC closed Hs accounts without appropriate notice. 
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T are directors of H. Theyre also directors of a linked business, Ill call R,
whose accounts were also closed by Barclays. Ive considered the banks actions in relation
to R in a separate decision.
On 12 June 2020 Barclays sent Mr T and Mrs T a letter to notify them Hs account would be 
closing with immediate effect. Hs account was closed on 16 June 2020. 
On 24 July 2020 £3,184 was received into Rs account. Mr T and Mrs T argue that this 
payment was originally intended for H. 
Mrs T complained to Barclays about the immediate account closure  which Mr T and Mrs T
felt was unfair during the Coronavirus pandemic. They also complained that Barclays held
on to funds which credited Rs account, but were intended for H. 
Barclays looked into Hs complaints. The bank thought theyd acted fairly in reviewing Hs
accounts and closing them. And advised the funds which credited Rs account were intended 
for this business, not H. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with Barclays response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Hs complaint  but they didnt uphold it. They thought
that Barclays followed their terms and conditions in closing Hs accounts. 
Mrs T didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, its been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered whether Barclays acted fairly when closing Hs accounts. A bank is
entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But,
before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of Hs business current account state that there are certain
circumstances in which a bank can immediately close a customers account. Section 9 of the
terms and conditions state that Barclays can close an account without any notice if they
reasonably believe H has done any of the things listed in 9.6 or 9.7.
Ive considered these terms and from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Barclays acted
within the terms and conditions when they closed Hs accounts.
I realise this will be disappointing to H and I appreciate the closure of their accounts caused
Mr T and Mrs T inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it
offers banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can
decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. Thats because they have the
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in Hs
case Barclays exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close their 
repayment plan.
Mr T and Mrs T have also complained that a payment credited to Rs account, should have 
in fact been paid to H. I already considered Barclays actions in a previous decision, so I 
wont be commenting on this further.
I understand that a bounce back loan H received remains outstanding. Barclays have 
explained that that Mr T and Mrs T will need to contact the bank directly to discuss a 
repayment plan for the loan. Id expect the bank to treat Mr T and Mrs T positively and 
sympathetically when making arrangements for any repayment plan.  
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman