DRN-3020876
The complaint
Mr C complained that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
unaffordable lending.
What happened
UK Credit provided a loan to Mr C as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
payable
August 2017 £10,000 60 months £339.06 20,343.60
Mr C told UK Credit that the loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, he would 
use the loan to repay other debt which he discussed in some detail with UK Credit.
When Mr C complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at the complaint and explained why he was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld. He set out directions indicating what UK 
Credit should do to put things right.
UK Credit disagreed with our investigator. In summary, it mainly said that its checks had 
been reasonable and proportionate and it hadnt seen any evidence, either at the time or 
since, to suggest the loan wasnt sustainably affordable.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also require the lender to 
find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or 
more money problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid 
in a sustainable way.
I have reviewed the information UK Credit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
UK Credit asked Mr C about his financial situation and checked bank statements Mr C 
provided during the course of the loan application to verify his declared income.  
UK Credit recorded the net amount of pay he received was around £1,611 per month. 
During a phone call with UK Credit (which I've listened to) Mr C answered questions about 
his normal monthly expenditure. Mr C told UK Credit he had limited or no responsibility for 
some of the usual main household expenses like council tax and utility bills as these were 
covered by an allowance his employer had already deducted from his gross wages. 
UK Credit also checked Mr Cs credit file to see how much he was already paying to other 
creditors and gain an understanding of his credit history. 
Based on the information Mr C supplied, and the results of its checks, UK Credit concluded 
that after using its loan to repay the debt Mr C had identified, Mr C should have more than 
£300 surplus cash each month and so the repayments on the new loan shouldve been 
affordable for him.
UK Credit warned Mr C that its affordability assessment was based on him using the loan as 
planned  and that the loan might not be affordable if he didnt do this. But I still dont think 
UK Credit thought carefully enough about the bigger picture and what conclusions it could 
fairly draw based on all the information it had gathered.
Other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be unusual for a 
borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar 
to lending. But I dont think UK Credit took properly into account what the information it had 
gathered showed about Mr Cs overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being able 
to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
UK Credit saw that Mr C was already financially over-stretched and struggling to manage his 
existing credit commitments. 
He had four defaulted accounts dating back to 2013 and 2016. Mr C said he was paying £80 
towards one of those accounts but there wasnt any information to suggest he was tackling 
any of the other defaulted accounts. Given that one of these accounts related to a short-term 
loan with a default balance of £161 and UK Credit thought Mr C had ample disposable 
income to cover this, I think this ought to have raised alarm bells  particularly as, to my 
mind, Mr C didnt appear to have any very convincing explanation for still having all his 
problematic debt which also included an outstanding county court judgement. Mr C said he 
paid just £12 or so per month towards this.
I think its fair to say if he had intended to target his debts effectively, as Mr C suggested he 
wanted to, he could have paid more using his surplus cash if he had really had as much 
disposable income as UK Credits affordability assessment suggested. This makes me think 
that either, despite what he had told UK Credit, repaying debt was not a priority for Mr C - 
which called into question his stated intention of using the loan for debt consolidation  or otherwise, that its affordability calculations couldnt safely be relied on when making 
assumptions about Mr Cs capacity to afford this loan. 
I think his borrowing record suggested he had already become over-reliant on expensive 
credit with further short term lending taken out in the weeks prior to this loan. UK Credit also 
saw that Mr C was approaching the £2,500 limit on a credit card account. And it was aware 
from seeing his bank statements that Mr C was almost at the limit of his £700 overdraft 
facility when he applied for this loan  which Mr C also mentioned.      
UK Credit had no control over how Mr C used the loan as it paid the money to him directly 
even though its affordability assessment didnt allow for the possibility that Mr C might 
instead decide he needed to spend the money according to his own priorities and the 
financial demands he faced at the time. 
UK Credit assumed he would use the loan to clear other debt  I think it was already 
reasonably foreseeable from looking at his credit history that he might not do this. And even 
on the figures UK Credit relied on, Mr C faced having to pay well over a third of his net 
income just on servicing debt. 
Taking all these things into account, I think UK Credit ought reasonably to have been aware 
that taking this additional, costly lending was likely to further over-stretch Mr Cs finances 
beyond the point where the portion of his income he would need to spend every month over 
the loan term just to meet his credit commitments would be sustainable for him. In my 
opinion, as a responsible lender, UK Credit shouldve realised that Mr C would likely struggle 
to repay this loan  especially bearing in mind the substantial monthly repayments he was 
signing up to pay over the 5 year loan term.
So it shouldnt have provided this loan.
UK Credit said that it saw from a recent credit search that Mr C did repay his short term 
loans, that his credit card had a significantly lower balance with the credit limit reduced and 
his current account had a nil balance. It considers that its loan helped Mr C to improve his 
financial situation. But I havent seen enough to make me think that was the case. 
Having seen the extent of Mr Cs money problems, I think it shouldve been apparent that 
there was a real risk he would use the loan instead to meet other immediate financial 
demands that he felt were more important to him  and that appears to be borne out by what 
happened. The more up to date credit report UK Credit has supplied shows that Mr C 
appears not to have used the loan for all the planned debt consolidation  the two defaulted 
accounts are still showing for instance. And he has continued to open new accounts  it 
looks like he paid the hire purchase agreement he discussed as part of the debt 
consolidation - but replaced this, the same month he took out this loan, with a new hire 
purchase agreement for a larger amount costing significantly more per month. Overall, it 
appears that his total indebtedness has increased and he has continued to face payment 
problems leading to further defaults. 
Even if he had spent the loan as discussed with UK Credit, Im mindful that debt 
consolidation can be very expensive  Mr C would incur further interest charges on debt that 
already included interest. The interest alone amounted to more than the amount of the loan 
he had borrowed and it would potentially cost him more than £10,000 over the loan term. 
UK Credit was aware that some of the debt he planned to repay had already defaulted and 
stopped accruing interest. And (bearing in mind that UK Credit thought he had spare cash 
each month) making overpayments instead to his credit card could have reduced the 
balance effectively without incurring the cost of this expensive loan. I dont think the possible benefits of debt consolidation outweighed the disadvantages to 
Mr C of taking this loan. Im not persuaded that UK Credit was reasonably able to conclude 
that taking out this expensive loan was likely to help Mr C improve his financial situation. 
Also, he was extending the period he would be indebted for a further five years  by which 
time its likely that the defaults and the county court judgement would (or very soon all 
should) have stopped appearing on his credit file in any event, even if he had not cleared 
them in that time.
For all these reasons, I cant reasonably say that UK Credit made a fair lending decision 
based on the information in front of it and I dont think it should have agreed to provide 
this loan to Mr C.
As Mr C has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a 
loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, he has lost out as a result of what UK 
Credit did wrong.
So, I think UK Credit needs to put things right.
Our investigator didnt recommend that UK Credit should pay any additional redress. Mr C 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think UK Credit 
acted unfairly towards Mr C in any other way. 
So Im not planning on awarding any additional redress.
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
So I've set out below the steps UK Credit needs to take to put things right.Putting things right
If UK Credit has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, UK Credit should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, then 
UK Credit should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr C bearing in 
mind its obligation to treat Mr C sympathetically and fairly if he still needs further time 
to pay
whilst its fair that Mr Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a 
loan that was unfairly provided. So UK Credit should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman