DRN-2927739
The complaint
Mr B complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited recorded a fault against his motor 
insurance policy following a claim made by another driver. He wants his No Claims Bonus 
(NCB) restored and compensation for his trouble and upset. 
What happened
Another driver said Mr B had driven into the back of his car. Mr B said the other driver may 
have been reversing. Skyfire considered the claim and settled it, recording a fault claim 
against Mr B. But it thought its communication could have been better and it paid Mr B £100 
compensation for this. Mr B remained unhappy with its decision and the amount paid out for 
the claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Skyfire 
had reasonably considered the evidence available before deciding that it would be unable to 
defend Mr B. He thought Skyfire had reasonably agreed to review the engineers report on 
the other car, so it wasnt paying for unrelated damage. He thought its offer of £100 
compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr B replied that Skyfire had settled the claim before it notified him the other driver had 
made a claim. He thought his photograph showed there was no damage to the back of the 
car. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The incident occurred when the other driver slowed down at traffic lights and Mr B ran into 
the back of his car. Mr B thought that the other driver may have been reversing, But his 
recollection was unclear and there was no independent evidence to support this. Skyfire 
thought the greater onus was on Mr B to leave sufficient room to stop between the two cars. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr B the same as someone else in his position.
Skyfire is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr B to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr B has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
I can see that there were no independent witness or CCTV evidence for Skyfire to consider. 
So it had two conflicting versions of events, the damage reports and photographs taken after 
the collision. I think it then decided that as the greater onus to take care was on Mr B it had 
no option but to accept the claim and settle it. I think it was entitled to do this by the policy 
terms and conditions. So I cant say that it did anything wrong in accepting liability on Mr Bs 
behalf and settling the other drivers claim. And I dont require it to restore Mr Bs NCB or pay 
him any compensation for this. 
Mr B thought the amount paid on the claim was disproportionate to the damage caused. But 
I can see that Skyfire reviewed the engineers reports before paying the claim. The other car 
was declared a total loss as the cost of repairs exceeded its value. It took some time for the 
decision to write off the car to be made, so a courtesy car was provided for this period. I 
cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable. In any case, the amount paid out wouldnt 
change the effect on Mr Bs NCB or claims record. 
Mr B was unhappy that Skyfire settled the claim without notifying him. But I cant see that the 
outcome would have been any different if Skyfire had told Mr B that it had settled the claim. 
This is because it already had his version of events and it had told Mr B that a claim had 
been made and he would be held liable. I can see that Mr B disagrees that he was told that a 
claim had been made. But I can see from the call records, and emails, that Skyfire told him 
this on at least three occasions before it decided to settle the claim. 
However, I can see that Skyfire agrees that its communication with Mr B wasnt good 
enough as it didnt tell him that the claim had been closed. And it paid him £100 
compensation for this. I think thats in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances 
and our published guidance. So I think that was fair and reasonable compensation for any 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman