DRN-3575869
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society would not allow then to take out a 
new fixed interest rate product when they wanted.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a mortgage with Nationwide. In 2017 they took out a fixed rate of 2.14% 
for 60 months. An early repayment charge (ERC) applied if the mortgage was repaid on or 
before 31 October 2022.
In April 2022, Mr and Mrs B asked to switch to a new fixed rate. Nationwide said that Mr and 
Mrs B could choose a new interest rate product from 1 June 2022. If they switched before 
that they would have to pay an ERC.
Mr and Mrs B consider that Nationwide hasnt treated them fairly. They said they tried to 
discuss their circumstances with Nationwide, but it wouldnt listen to them. Mr and Mrs B 
said that they had overpaid on their previous five year fixed rates and that their reasons for 
the request were overlooked and not discussed. As a result, they have lost out as the Bank 
of England base rate will go up before they can choose a new interest rate product.
The investigator thought that Nationwide had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept what the investigator said. They said that when they spoke to 
Nationwide it wasnt interested in understanding the reasons why they wanted to secure a 
new interest rate product early. When they complained Nationwides handling of the 
complaint, it should have transferred the complaint to someone else. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs B wanted to secure a new fixed interest rate before widely 
predicted increases in the Bank of England base rate and in the interest rates offered by 
mortgage lenders. 
Nationwide has provided evidence that it operates a policy where it will permit borrowers 
who have an ERC to switch to a new interest rate product in the last five months of the deal 
period with no ERC, providing that the switch date is in the last three months of the product. 
And that an ERC would be payable if the product was switched before that. That is 
consistent with the mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs B agreed to.
Nationwide operated a concession where it allowed borrowers to secure a new interest rate 
early without paying an ERC. It was its decision whether to extend that concession further 
for Mr and Mrs B. But I dont consider the reasons Mr and Mrs B have given would mean 
that Nationwide should have departed from its normal policy. Nor would the interest rates Mr 
and Mrs B have paid in the past mean that Nationwide should treat them differently.
Overall, I consider that Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of 
this case. It has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and in line with other borrowers in the same 
situation. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So Im afraid I cant look at how Nationwide 
dealt with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman