DRN-3697998
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the advice he was given by Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) to 
invest in 1999. He says he didnt really understand the product and he didnt consider 
himself to be such a high-risk taker.
The investment was sold by a predecessor business of Zurich, but Zurich has taken 
responsibility for the advice.
Mr P is represented by a third party but for ease of reference I shall refer to Mr P in this 
decision. 
What happened
In July 1999 Mr P was advised to invest £7,000 into a Maxi ISA investing in the 
Threadneedle Managed Funds (later known as the XManaged Equity Focused Fund Retail 
Accumulation). Mr P sold the investment in February 2021 for £21,702.57 but thought he 
had lost out financially so complained to Zurich. 
In its response Zurich didnt think the ISA had been mis-sold. It considered that it wasnt 
unsuitable for Mr Ps circumstances and requirements. He had sufficient capital to make the 
lump sum investment for capital growth and in a tax efficient manner. It didnt think Mr P was 
financially illiterate as was being claimed, he was already making decisions about investing 
his funds as it was recorded he was most interested in the Maxi ISA.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld;
She was satisfied that Mr P had a balanced attitude to risk as it was recorded at the 
time and there was no evidence to suggest otherwise. 
He invested 77% of his available cash which she thought was too much and the 
majority of which was likely invested in equities. She didnt think he had the capacity 
to accept large losses to his money.
There was no evidence that the risk associated with investing in a balanced growth 
fund was explained and it was hard to say what level of detail he was provided with 
about the risk or that it was discussed. 
Mr Ps knowledge of a Maxi ISA wasnt enough to say he would have understood the 
risk or had experience of investing in the stock market.
She thought fair compensation would be to compare the performance of the 
investment with that of 50% in the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index and 50% average rate from fixed rate bonds. If there was no financial loss, no 
compensation would be payable. 
Zurich agreed in principle but thought it more appropriate that it calculate redress on half of 
the investment as the investigator had concluded that Mr P had been advised to invest too 
much. The investigator didnt agree  if one part of the advice wasnt suitable, everything 
was unsuitable.
Mr P thought the proposed redress was more suitable for a low risk/cautious investor. He 
thought 100% FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index to be correct as the 
investigator accepted he was willing to accept a balanced risk. The investigator didnt agree. 
She had found the investment carried more risk than Mr P could accept. She didnt think it 
was reasonable to compare his whole investment with 100% the FTSE UK benchmark when 
his investment was already fully invested in a balanced fund. 
Mr P maintained the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index should be used. 
He said he had the capacity to absorb potential losses, his income was likely to increase, he 
was happy to save over the medium to long term, which was suitable for a balanced 
investor, which he was. The funds he invested into werent balanced as they were heavily 
weighted in equities and had foreign currency risk attached to them. 
The investigator couldnt know how the fund was invested but had upheld the complaint 
because she thought Mr P had been advised to take too much risk with too much of his 
money. He had a limited understanding of stocks and shares and said he didnt consider 
himself to be such a risk taker. A consumers attitude to risk may be balanced but if the 
investment they were recommended exposed them to too much risk the index proposed by 
Mr B was wasnt right. 
Mr P didnt agree. He had said he hadnt said anything contradictory. He wasnt in the 
position to tolerate anything too high risk. The fund was medium risk. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps circumstances and attitude to risk
I have seen a copy of the client Fact Find from 2 July 1999. At that time Mr P was 22 years 
of age, single, living at home with his parents and was earning £10,000 per year in his role 
as a personal computer support engineer. Its noted that Mr P expected an increase to his 
earnings of 10% but at that time his net monthly income was £680 and his regular living 
costs were recorded as being £300. 
Mr P had £9,000 split between two building society accounts. His priorities at that time were 
recorded as being 1) protecting lifestyle against specific illness, 2) protecting family or 
business against financial consequences of death and 3) investing capital for growth, 
income, or inheritance planning. He could put aside £100 per month comfortably in order to 
meet those financial needs. 
The notes of that meeting state that Mr P was introduced to the adviser via Mr Ps father who 
himself had taken a critical illness policy and he introduced Mr P to do the same. The notes 
continue Since [Mr P] has some capital savings, his next priority is investing capital for 
growth. He seemed to like the idea of investing in an ISA very soon. As a result of that 
meeting Mr P took a critical illness policy with life cover at a cost of £50 per month which 
was within his budget. 
Under the section Indexation included where it was ticked no, the reason given was The 
client was uncomfortable within increasing costs and his income may not increase until he 
qualifies. There is a Fact Find Update dated 12 July 1999. Mr Ps circumstances hadnt changed, and 
he had excess monthly income of £348. It was recorded that his priority was to invest for 
capital growth and that The client has about £9,000 in building societies and was most 
interested in the Maxi ISA and the Balanced Managed Growth Fund. Decided to invest the 
maximum available £7,000 and have £2,000 in the emergency funds with the building 
society.
The resulting recommendation letter stated that it had been identified Mr P wanted to invest 
with the aim of increasing the value of his investment. You consider yourself to have a 
balanced attitude to investment risk and would prefer an investment that reflects this. You 
are happy to commit your capital for the medium to long term, which we consider to be at 
least five years. The Threadneedle ISA  Managed Funds was recommended, and Mr P was 
given the key features document and sample illustration for the investment. 
Theres no record of how Mr Ps recorded attitude to risk was established. It's not evident 
from the Fact Finds how Zurich came to the conclusion that Mr P was a balanced risk 
investor. I would expect to see some sort of evidence that the risk of investing was explained 
to Mr P, taking into account his ability to understand investment risk and clarification of his 
experience or knowledge to understand the risk involved. So, Ive considered whether Zurich 
collected sufficient information about Mr Ps circumstances and objectives to enable it to 
assess his attitude to risk and advise him appropriately. 
Ive also borne in mind that  with the exception of the recently taken critical illness policy 
with life cover Mr P was a novice investor who was seeking advice because he didnt have 
the knowledge or experience to make such an investment decision unaided. So, Zurich 
needs to demonstrate that it gave suitable advice taking into account Mr Ps circumstances, 
understanding and knowledge after ascertaining his attitude to risk.
Clearly I cant know for sure what was discussed at the meetings Mr P had with Zurichs 
representative but from the documentary evidence that is available, Im not convinced that 
Zurich has been able to show us how it established Mr Ps attitude to risk. 
However, in the absence of documentation to evidence how the risk assessment for Mr P 
was carried out I have taken into account his circumstances as recorded in the Fact Find 
from a few weeks before the sale and the Fact Find Update to see whether the level of risk 
the investment exposed him to was right for him.
Mr P was young, had only recently started working and had saved a lump sum which its 
recorded he wanted to invest for capital for growth. It might have been the case that Mr P did 
want to explore the opportunity to make his money grow more than it had done in savings. 
But I havent seen sufficient documentary evidence about how Zurich came to the conclusion 
that Mr P was a balanced risk investor and for that high proportion of his capital. And Ive 
further borne in mind what Mr P had so far done with his savings  by keeping it in a risk-free 
environment in building society accounts. 
Mr P did have some surplus monthly income at the time of the sale, but I dont think he was 
in a financial position to take excessive risks with his savings, which as far as I am able to 
tell, was his only capital. The Fact Find refers to his budget and The client was 
uncomfortable within increasing costs and his income may not increase until he qualifies. 
So, I think his capacity to bear a loss was relatively limited. Taking everything else into 
consideration, Im persuaded it was more likely that Mr P was willing to take some risk with 
some of his money but not too much risk with too much of his money bearing in the limited 
evidence about how the level of risk he was prepared to take was arrived at. The advice
Of the £9,000 Mr P had saved, it was recommended that £7,000 be invested into a balanced 
risk fund within an ISA wrapper. This left Mr P with £2,000 as emergency funds. Just under 
80% of Mr Ps capital was invested into a balanced fund, which, like the investigator I think 
was excessive. I dont think he was in the position to accept that level of capacity for loss. 
I think it would have been difficult, or taken Mr P a long time, to replace any significant loss 
cause by this investment. A balanced risk fund had the ability to do that  usually containing 
a significant percentage in equities. That brings with it the chance of significant loss. Mr P 
invested nearly 80% of his savings which he hadnt done before. Whilst there will always be 
a first time for this kind of investing and it may well be that Mr P was prepared to take some 
risk, I think it unlikely he would have wished to place so much of his money at the level of 
risk presented by this investment. 
I dont believe there is sufficient evidence to show that it was made clear what in practice 
balanced investing meant in terms of the losses that could be incurred. So, on balance I 
believe the complaint should be upheld. I think that Mr P was probably prepared to take 
some risk but not to the extent that he was advised to do.   
Overall, and taking into account Mr Ps circumstances and objectives at the time, I think this 
meant his money was exposed to risks Im not persuaded he was willing or able to take. I am 
satisfied that the advice Mr P was given in 1999 wasnt suitable for him taking account of his 
personal and financial circumstances that Ive already outlined. 
So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I am upholding it. I think the advice 
wasnt suitable for Mr P. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put     
Mr P as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
Mr P has said redress should be compared 100% to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index. He said had the capacity to absorb potential losses, his income was 
likely to increase and he was happy to save over the medium to long term which was 
suitable for a balanced investor. 
And Zurich has said the redress should only be offered for half of the investment. And that 
for the other half that would have remained on deposit, that would have had tax deducted 
from the interest and should be taken into account. 
But I disagree. My role isnt to retrospectively say what the suitable advice would have been. 
There were many ways Mr P could have invested and its not possible for me to now say 
precisely what he would have done. So, in line with our long-standing approach, I think its 
more appropriate to use a benchmark to assess the type of return Mr P would have been 
able to achieve with suitable advice. This represents the sort of return Mr P would have got 
with some risk to his money.
I think Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Zurich do?To compensate Mr P fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
   Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment name Status BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Threadneedle Maxi 
ISA Managed 
Funds/XManaged 
Equity Focused 
FundNo 
longer 
existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Zurich should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr P's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr P into that position. It does not mean that Mr P 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr P could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and Zurich Assurance Ltd should put 
the matter right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman