DRN-4345343
The complaint
Miss B complains about a declined insurance claim after she made a claim on her motor 
insurance policy with Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd (Berkshire).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss B and Berkshire. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss B had a motor insurance policy with Berkshire. Miss B says her car was taken without 
her permission and involved in an accident. She then registered a claim with Berkshire. They 
had some concerns about the claim and Miss Bs account of what had happened. The car 
was classified as a total loss and moved to a salvage yard as no repairs had been 
authorised. Berkshire later said the car was disposed of  in error.
Miss B complained to Berkshire about the claim decline, the disposal of her car and the non-
return of personal items from the car. Berkshire offered Miss B £100 in recognition of the car 
being disposed of in error and paid her the salvage value.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. Miss B 
didnt accept their recommendations, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I 
sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings  outlining that I was intending 
to uphold the complaint. 
As the deadline for both parties to respond has now passed, Ive now considered the 
complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres an 
alternative version of events between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on what I 
think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence.
Its important to be clear that my role when considering this complaint doesnt extend to 
determining what has actually happened at the time that the car was taken and involved in 
an accident.
Berkshire shared their concerns with Miss B. In summary, their concerns were based around 
her version of events being inconsistent, differing accounts being presented to the police 
than when making this claim and important information not being shared with them.
As outlined above, Im not deciding here whats actually happened. Instead, Im considering 
if Berkshire has fairly and reasonably considered all of the evidence before reaching the 
position (declining the claim for fraud) theyve taken here. Although I wont comment on 
every part of the extensive evidence, I have carefully considered everything. 
Responses to the most recent provisional decision
Both parties responded to the decision. Berkshire said theyd agree to reconsider the claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms. Miss B responded to say that she was unhappy with 
the removal of 8% simple interest. As explained in the provisional decision, although Im 
directing Berkshire to reconsider the claim, Im not pre-empting the outcome of the claim  
so Ive removed the part of the direction that referred to paying 8% simple interest on any 
successful claim.  
As previously, my key findings remain the same and Ive included them below:
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with Berkshire that there are inconsistencies in    
Miss Bs accounts of what happened shortly before and around the time of the incident. Ive 
highlighted some examples of issues with her accounts below:
In her statement to Berkshire (30 March 2021), Miss B said she lived at home with her father 
- but in her statement to the police (13 March 2021) she gave her address as a different 
property.
Based on what Miss B has said, the loss occurred from the address she gave the police - 
and not her friends apartment. Berkshire have said that had they known the correct risk 
address a higher premium wouldve been applicable - due to their underwriting criteria.
As Ive not yet seen a copy of the underwriting (UW) criteria that sits behind this and it didnt 
clearly form part of the complaint referred to our Service, my decision will only focus on the 
decision to decline this claim.
Miss B has said on the night of the loss she was visiting a friend (in the same apartment 
block from where the loss occurred). She didnt provide contact details for the friend, but 
Berkshire made contact with the friend who said she knew nothing about the theft, wasnt a 
friend of Miss B and knew her as a resident on the same floor of the building. Miss B 
responded to our Investigator to say that they were friends and provided what shes said is a 
photo of her and the friend. Ive placed limited weight on this photo as Ive no reasonable 
way of verifying the two women in it, or the circumstances in which the photo was taken.
However, when deciding if Berkshire had fairly considered this evidence (about the friend 
claiming she didnt know Miss B), Ive also kept in mind the COVID-19 restrictions around 
socialising in March 2021:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/covid-19-response-spring-2021/covid-19-
response-spring-2021-summary and the friends possible motivation for not wanting to admit 
breaking the relevant rules at that time. Miss B has also referred to a falling out with the 
friend, meaning she may not have been willing to cooperate.
In an email to our Service dated 10 May 2023, Miss B said she had an apartment a few 
doors down from where she had been socialising on the night of the loss, and returned there 
towards the end of the night. It was from there, she says, that her former partner took the car 
keys.
This is (again) different to the version of events she told Berkshire in her statement dated 30 
March 2021. At that point shed told Berkshire: I found [sic] about the theft when the police 
attended the address I was staying at, this was around 3am..As Berkshire have pointed out, this is at odds with the police report. In the police statement, 
Miss B names her former partner as the person whod taken the car without her permission 
and crashed it. However when reporting the loss to Berkshire, Miss B didnt volunteer that 
information or that theyd been arrested and instead refers to someone taking the car. Ive 
taken a balanced approach to this. On one hand Miss B certainly couldve been more 
forthcoming, but equally, she hasnt actively withheld this information.
Recently, Miss B has explained that shed been told verbally at the police station that there 
was a phone call and then a visit from the police - and the police report isnt accurate. We 
asked Miss B for written confirmation of this  but none has yet been provided.
As outlined above with examples, its clear there are consistency issues with Miss Bs 
recollections of what happened around the time of the claim event. Ive also kept in mind 
whether or not the details Miss B has been inconsistent about are material to the claim.
Since our Investigators assessment, Miss B has provided an email (she says is) from the 
relevant Crown Court outlining that her former partner was successfully prosecuted for 
(amongst other offences), Aggravated vehicle taking. We shared this information with 
Berkshire who stated that this information validated one aspect of the claim, as the former 
partner didnt have permission to drive the car.
Berkshire also told us the remaining policy terms were applicable to the circumstances of the 
loss. They also added that their main concern was Miss Bs version of events being 
inconsistent and whilst there must be a reason why Miss B [name redacted by Ombudsman] 
is unable to provide a consistent version of events, the fraud exclusion was still relevant to 
the decline of this claim.
Ive considered what Berkshire have said here and believe what Miss B has recently told our 
Service to be important. In an email from 14 May 2023:
When this had happened, I was naturally very worried as [former partners name 
redacted and bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] was my partner of the time, 
he was already on a suspended sentence [bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman] and this careless act while he was also intoxicated and has a driving 
ban already, he was not insured and having no permission from myself as the owner 
is stealing and was likely to activate a lengthy sentencing for him. [Bold added 
for emphasis by Ombudsman]
[Former partners name redacted by Ombudsman] and I split a couple of months later 
from this incident as I was a victim of domestic abuse, I believe what he has 
done with my car was another way to abuse and isolate me [bold added for 
emphasis by Ombudsman] and now two years later still causing myself problems.
I find this to be important information as - like Berkshire have said, there has to be some 
reasonable explanation for the inconsistencies in Miss Bs recollections.
Summary
I agree with Berkshire that Miss B has been inconsistent in her recollections, but it seems 
reasonable to assume that Miss Bs personal circumstances at that time (as well as the 
wider relevant COVID-19 restrictions) may have contributed to this and her behaviour.
Berkshire allege that Miss B withheld important information that was material to the claim 
from them. Im not currently entirely persuaded by this argument. As its accepted now that 
her former partner took the car without Miss Bs permission, in my opinion, this means the other inconsistencies are less material to the overall claim.
Berkshire initially told our Service:
As referred to in our opening letter, it is implausible that Miss Bs [name redacted by 
Ombudsman] whereabouts at the time of the incident are as she has stated. This 
means that the location of the key when it was taken, and how it was taken, the 
location of the vehicle, and the whereabouts of Miss B are unable to be verified, and 
we are unable to validate the claim, which is a direct result of Miss B providing false 
information and a false alibi. We therefore consider that the fraud condition referred 
to in our letter dated 10 March 2022 is appropriately applied.
Ive considered if this means Berkshire have fairly and reasonably considered the claim in 
line with the policy terms. I currently intend to find that they havent. Miss Bs ex-partner has 
been convicted of aggravated vehicle taking: 
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/60/section/12A. 
I agree with Berkshire that there may yet be other relevant terms/considerations here. But 
Im only considering whats happened so far in this decision. Given the possible 
motivation/explanation that may have led to inconsistencies in what Miss B said, I find that 
Berkshire have unfairly and unreasonably considered this claim before declining it for the 
reasons theyve given.
Ive questioned what Miss B stood to gain from the various inconsistencies in her accounts 
of events and that shes been the victim of a crime (based on the successful conviction).
The disposal of the car and her personal items
Berkshire have accepted they made an error and I find that paying Miss B the salvage value 
and £100 compensation is fair, reasonable and proportionate. As no evidence was provided 
that would prove ownership of the personal items that are alleged to have been in the car, I 
dont require Berkshire to take any further action in relation to this point.
Putting things right
I direct Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to:
Reconsider this claim in line with the remaining policy terms. Berkshire can deduct 
the salvage value already paid.
Remove and update any adverse data reported to any relevant underwriting 
databases in relation to this claim decline for fraud.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to follow 
my direction, as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman