DRN-3267724
The complaint
Mrs S says Western Union Payment Services Ireland Limited (Western Union), didnt do 
enough to help when she fell victim to a romance scam and that it should reimburse her.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mrs S fell victim to a cruel romance scam. Mrs S met someone online who said 
they were an American solider deployed in Nigeria. Mrs S ended up making multiple 
payments abroad. Mrs S realised it was a scam when the fraudster kept asking for more and 
more money. 
Unfortunately Mrs S then met someone else online who was also a fraudster and also 
claimed to be an American soldier. Mrs S told this second fraudster about what had 
happened and the fraudster duped Mrs S into believing that they would investigate the 
matter. They then told Mrs S that the earlier fraudster had been arrested and that there were 
court proceedings. This was another trick to obtain money, with Mrs S making further 
payments for court costs and to obtain her money back which would also include a refund of 
the court costs.
Mrs S, over a period spanning 30 August 2019 to 24 December 2019, made multiple 
payments through her bank and through money transfer service providers  one of which 
was Western Union.
Mrs S made the following payments from Western Union:
Payment 1: 5 September 2019 - £351.10 to a recipient in the USA. 
Payment 2: 4 October 2019 - £700 (+£6.90 fee) to a recipient in Nigeria.
Payment 3: 24 October 2019 - £900 (which was stopped and declined by Western 
Union)
Mrs S referred the matter to our service in 2020. Mrs S ended up receiving a refund of the 
payments she made from her bank  Bank S but was unable to log complaints with the 
money transfer service providers.
Our service informed Western Union of Mrs Ss complaint and it investigated the matter and 
declined to offer a refund. It considered it hadnt been negligent in any way when completing 
the transactions as all of its security procedures were followed.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Overall, they didnt think Western Union ought to have done more to identify Payments 1 and 
2 as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. They acknowledged that Payment 3 was 
stopped by Western Union as a result of its security measures but considered that it didnt 
mean the earlier payments should have automatically been flagged by Western Union also.
They also felt as the funds for Payments 1 and 2 had already been collected, there was 
nothing Western Union could do further in regard to the recovery of the funds Mrs S had 
sent.
Mrs S responded disagreeing. In summary, Mrs S considers that money transfer service 
providers like Western Union should be bound by more regulations and thorough checks 
should be undertaken on both the sending party and receiving party when a payment is 
made and collected. Mrs S believes this would have prevented her losses and it would help 
other people in similar situations in the future. Mrs S also had concerns that had she been 
provided with better reasons as to why the payment was declined it could have prevented 
further losses.
As Mrs S disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to clarify that this decision focuses on the actions of Western Union in 
relation to the payments Mrs S made. Mrs S has other complaints with our service about her 
bank and another money transfer service provider which have or are being dealt with under 
separate complaint references.
Second, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in 
less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine 
whether Western Union should have done more to prevent Mrs Ss losses. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as an alternative to the courts. 
I would also like to point out at this juncture that while Mrs S has received a refund from her 
bank  Bank S for the payments she made through them, each case is investigated on its 
own merits. Within this decision I have considered the facts of the scam that Mrs S fell victim 
to, alongside Western Unions actions when Mrs S made the payments. This is in order to 
determine whether I think Western Union should have done more to prevent Mrs Ss losses.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but Im not upholding her complaint. I know shes been the
victim of a cruel romance scam at a time when she had a lot going on personally and I dont 
doubt that these events have had a significant impact on her financially, mentally, and 
emotionally. But I dont believe Western Union has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
answering of the complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a money transfer / payment service 
provider (in this case, Western Union) is expected to process payments and withdrawals that 
a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions. 
It is the case that Mrs S authorised the payments in dispute and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mrs S is responsible for the payments. That remains 
the case even though Mrs S was the unfortunate victim of a romance scam.
There are times when, dependent on the payment that I might expect a payment service 
provider to question a transaction or payment, even though it may have been properly 
authorised. Broadly speaking, firms (like Western Union) have certain obligations to protect 
customers from fraud. 
So in this case, I need to decide whether Western Union acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs S when she made the payments, or whether it should have done more 
than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. And in doing so, it is important to take into consideration the 
purpose that customers use payment service providers such as Western Union for. The 
primary purpose is to send payments, often in a particular currency, abroad. Payments are 
typically for friends and family members and payments can range from one-off low amounts, 
regular amounts weekly / monthly and for one-off larger amounts.
So when Mrs S used Western Union to make payments abroad, I cant fairly say that there 
was anything unusual or remarkable about the payments or the amount that reasonably 
ought to have alerted MoneyGram to the possibility Mrs S was potentially at risk of financial 
harm, where I would expect MoneyGram to have concerns and step in and question Mrs S 
further about the payments. The first payment Mrs S made (to USA) was for around £350 on 
5 September 2019. And the second payment, for £700 (to Nigeria), was made around one 
month later on 4 October 2019.
It is also important to note that payment service providers such as Western Union arent a 
bank or building society where there is an ongoing relationship between the parties which 
enables the monitoring of accounts in order to detect and possibly prevent the risk of 
financial harm when a payment is made. This can make it inherently more difficult for a 
business such as Western Union to identify that a customer is at risk of financial harm where 
there isnt a lot of historic usage.
Here, there wasnt a historic relationship between the parties and Western Union didnt have 
a history of payments, or account usage to refer to in determining whether the payments 
being made by Mrs S could be classed as unusual or out of character. 
All things considered, I dont think there were grounds for Western Union to be suspicious 
Mrs S may be a victim of fraud or at risk of financial harm. And I think the fact that 
Western Union didnt flag the first two payments as suspicious was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances  given the primary reason for the use of payment service providers as 
Ive explained. Western Union did stop the third payment Mrs S attempted to make for £900  on 
24 October 2019 as it said the payment flagged on its internal security systems. 
Western Union spoke to Mrs S about the payment and given the answers, it considered 
there was a risk to the payment and declined to process it, with Mrs S collecting the 
money/refund the same day.
Payment service providers are required to have security measures in place, and this is to 
combat fraud and to satisfy anti-money laundering regulations to prevent funding terrorism or 
organised crime. In this case, while Western Union cant divulge its exact security measures, 
due to the wider security implications this can have if its measures are known to fraudsters, it 
has said the £900 payment did flag on its systems for further checks. I dont think this is 
unreasonable. And those measures prevented that payment from being made. 
I do understand Mrs Ss frustration that earlier payments werent questioned in such a 
manner  but as Ive said it wasnt unreasonable for those payments not to have flagged in 
the circumstances. Payment service providers like Western Union have to reasonably 
identify a payment that they consider could mean its customer is at risk. And those security 
measures can include a number of things such as (but not limited to) the amount, purpose, 
frequency of payments, the destination. It can incorporate other things such as information 
possibly held on file about the receiving beneficiary also. So I dont think Western Union has 
acted unfairly here when the third payment triggered its security measures despite Mrs Ss 
understandable frustrations that it didnt happen on the two earlier payments. 
Mrs S considers more should be done by payment service providers in checking the sending 
party and purpose of the payment and also the receiving beneficiary. As I have said, there 
are rules and regulations in place that payment service providers have to abide by to combat 
fraud and to satisfy anti-money laundering regulations. So Western Union are required to 
have measures in place to identify those customers it considers could be at financial risk or 
payments that may be fraudulent  but it also has to strike a balance and not intervene 
unnecessarily on payments that are genuine. In this case, Im satisfied that it wasnt 
unreasonable for Western Union not to flag Mrs Ss first two payments and that it also acted 
fairly in intervening when it did. 
I would like to add that payment service providers arent obliged to divulge the exact reason 
why it has declined a payment  for security reasons. So while I understand Mrs Ss 
frustrations when she says that she wasnt given a clear warning as to why the payment was 
declined which may have prevented further losses, Im satisfied Western Union had met it 
obligations. It identified and did not process what was a payment that was ultimately going to 
a fraudster. I also consider that it can be reasonably argued that Western Union in declining 
to make the payment was an indication to Mrs S that there were possibly some concerning 
features about the payment she was attempting to make.
I also note that Mrs S went on to make other payments from her bank and says she 
attempted to make transfers through other payment service providers. Mrs S says these 
payment service providers wouldnt let her use their services and thinks the providers she 
had used (one being Western Union) had shared information about her transaction history. I 
havent seen anything to indicate any of her information was shared, and there can be a 
number of reasons a payment service provider refuses to initiate use of their services. And 
those transfers Mrs S did end up making through her bank, as a result of not being able to 
use other payment service providers and because Western Union had declined the third 
payment on 24 October 2019, have since been refunded. In this case, Im satisfied Western Union wasnt required to do anything further than what it 
had done. It identified a payment that it considered was a risk, spoke with Mrs S about the 
payment, declined to process it and refunded the money back to Mrs S the same day. So I 
dont consider it would be fair to hold Western Union liable for any transactions Mrs S 
subsequently made through alternative payment service providers.
Overall, while I appreciate Mrs S has been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think 
Western Unions decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mrs Ss instructions to make Payments 1 and 2 
and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. Im also satisfied it acted 
fairly by intervening on payment 3 which resulted in that payment being declined.  
Unfortunately, Western Union wasnt able to recover the funds as they had already been 
collected by the beneficiaries in the destination countries  so there was nothing further it 
could do for Mrs S. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman