DRN-4185598
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) declined her claim under 
her Homecare agreement.
Any reference to British Gas includes all its agents.
What happened
Ms B took out an annual Plumbing and Drains cover with British Gas.
On 25 January 2023, Ms B found a small leak in the valve connected to the manifolds of her 
underfloor heating system. She contacted British Gas and an appointment was booked for 
an engineer to investigate the leak.
The engineer arrived on 26 January 2023, he looked at the leak in the valve and after 
speaking to his manager, informed Ms B that the leak wasnt covered under her policy. Ms B 
had to pay £96 separately for the repair to be carried out by an independent engineer.
She made a complaint to British Gas. It responded and said she had no cover for the leak 
under her Plumbing and Drains policy. Generally, claims for the heating system would be 
covered under its Central Heating cover, but even if she had this cover, the leak in the valve 
connected to the manifolds of her underfloor heating system, would be excluded.
Ms B brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold 
the complaint. He said the Plumbing and Drains cover doesnt provide cover for a leaking 
valve connected to the underfloor heating system. He didnt think the claim was declined 
unfairly by British Gas and didnt think any compensation was warranted under the 
circumstances.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. So, it was passed to me.
In summary, Ms B said:
An isolation valve isnt specifically designed for underfloor heating system as it also 
has a feed from the cold-water pipes so would be covered under the Plumbing and 
Drains policy.
The Whats Covered section of the policy provides examples. But these are 
examples only, which means, other scenarios can apply. Therefore, repairs to 
isolation valves are included in the cover.
Theres no specific exclusion for any parts that are designed specifically for 
underfloor heating. Instead of conceding that the terms and conditions under the 
Plumbing and Drains cover are inaccurate and misleading, British Gas is relying on 
underfloor exclusions detailed within the Central Heating cover.
She would not expect the ombudsman to find for British Gas without acknowledging 
the lack of clarity within the terms and conditions of the existing plumbing cover.
She would also expect the Ombudsman to recommend to British Gas that their terms 
and conditions should be updated to prevent customers from taking out a policy that 
may not meet their needs.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 12 June 2023. 
I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Ms Bs Plumbing and Drains cover. Page 12 of 
the policy booklet sets out whats covered:
Whats covered
All repairs to the plumbing system on your property, for example:
 your hot and cold water pipes between your internal stopcock up to, and including 
your taps and garden taps and the flexible pipes to your kitchen appliances;
 the hot water cylinder and cold water tanks including immersion heaters, toilet 
siphons, isolation, ball and radiator valves; and
 your water supply pipe from the boundary of your property to your home
A replacement of parts that we cant repair. We will replace a pair of taps to a single 
item of sanitary ware where only one cant be repaired
Accidental damage
And, in the Whats not covered part in the same section, there is no specific exclusion of 
cover to parts designed specifically for underfloor heating.
Ms B has taken out cover with British Gas for Plumbing and Drains and based on the policy 
terms and conditions above, there is no cover for the leaking valve for the underfloor 
heating. She says the underfloor heating has a feed for a cold water pipe and so the repair 
for the valve should be covered. Having looked at the terms and conditions of her cover, the 
cold water pipe has no reference to the underfloor heating system. Im satisfied that its clear 
from the above section of the policy that there is no cover provided for the cost of the repair 
to the valve.
From the information available, Ms B also took out Home Electrical cover at the same time 
as taking out the Plumbing and Drains cover. Theres no evidence that she took out Central 
Heating cover. And having had a look at the Central Heating cover, even if she had taken this out, there is an exclusion in the cover for underfloor heating.
So, whichever way we look at this, Ms B has no cover for the leak in the valve connected to 
the manifold of her underfloor heating. The Plumbing and Drains policy is only for the 
purpose of repairs to plumbing and drains and just because there is no specific mention or 
exclusion of underfloor heating within the terms and conditions of this cover, that doesnt 
mean that cover should apply. And while there is cover available with British Gas for central 
heating, there is a specific exclusion for underfloor heating on this. And, in any case, Ms B 
did not take out this cover so this wouldnt apply.
I dont consider the terms and conditions for the Plumbing and Drains to be inaccurate or 
misleading in the circumstances. While Ms B has her own interpretation of this cover and I 
understand that she would like the cost for the repair covered, she simply doesnt have the 
cover for what shes paid for. The event that led to the claim isnt covered under her policy.
It's not my role to recommend a business on how to write the terms and conditions of a 
policy or to recommend it updates them. And just because the event that led to the claim 
isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy, it doesnt mean that they are 
misleading.
Overall, Im not persuaded that British Gas has declined Ms Bs claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. I therefore dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
fairly ask British Gas to settle the claim.
For the reasons given above, I dont intend on upholding Ms Bs complaint.
British Gas responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. 
Ms B responded but didnt accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the telephone call where Ms B provided further comments. I dont think there 
is anything new here to whats been said before.
I appreciate Ms B is disappointed but the policy she has for Plumbing and Drains doesnt 
provide cover for the repair of the manifold of her underfloor heating system. And I do 
understand that she didnt take out the Central Heating cover as underfloor heating was 
excluded under this policy. But insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality.
Ms B says British Gas should update the terms and conditions of the policy to prevent 
customers taking out a policy that doesnt meet their needs. However, its not my role to tell 
British Gas to do this and is a commercial decision which we cannot get involved in. I can 
only look at the individual merits of a case.
Overall, in the circumstances of this case and taking everything into account, I dont think 
British Gas has declined Ms Bs claim unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require 
British Gas to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint about British Gas Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman