DRN-4079157
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is pursuing him for repayment of an 
overdraft he says should be on hold pending the outcome of an HMRC investigation.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and was set out in detail by 
our investigator so I wont rehearse the same at length here. However, Ive set out a brief 
summary of the key issues below.
Mr B holds a business account with Barclays. He told our service the account was used for a 
limited company Ill call L, and to pay things like taxes and fees. And that all deposits made 
into the account were made by two brothers who were also directors of L.
The account fell into overdraft on 27 April 2020 and had a negative balance of a little under 
£25,000 by 26 August 2020. Barclays has sought to recover the debt from Mr B, but Mr B 
has declined to repay the debt, saying theres an ongoing HMRC investigation into the 
account activity and he doesnt want to be complicit in the allegations made against Ls other 
directors.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there had been no credits from Ls 
other directors since 19 July 2019 and that the last substantial credit into the account was a 
payment of £65,049.04, being an insurance pay out in favour of Mr B. He said many of the 
transactions from early 2020 to 28 August 2020 were payments made using Mr Bs business 
card, and payments to accounts in Mr Bs name.
Our investigator hadnt seen any evidence of an ongoing HMRC investigation, and felt Mr B 
was liable for the debt given the above, along with the fact that account was in Mr Bs sole 
name, and that the debit transactions had been made for his benefit.
Mr B didnt agree. He didnt challenge the assertion that he had authorised the payments 
out, but said he had further evidence (which he then submitted) to show the credits to the 
account had always been made by Ls other directors. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of the evidence both parties have submitted, including the evidence Mr B 
sent in after our investigator issued his findings. I have no reason to doubt what Mr B says 
about the historic use of the account. The evidence he submitted included a number of 
historic text messages from 2016 to 2019 that seem to show one of Ls other directors 
instructing Mr B to make payments, and Mr B agreeing to do so. It does seem that the last 
significant payment into Mr Bs account was made by another party though, i.e. a payment of 
£65,049.04 from an insurance company with Mr Bs name as the reference.
But, notwithstanding that, identifying who deposited funds into the account doesnt help Mr B 
in this complaint. Barclays is pursuing him for a debt, i.e. for funds withdrawn out of the 
account that took the account into overdraft. The account is in Mr Bs name and so he is 
responsible for legitimate debts incurred in the ordinary course of the account. And debts of 
course arise from account debits, not credits.
Mr B hasnt sought to suggest that he didnt authorise the transactions out of the account, 
and indeed the evidence he has submitted shows he intended to make the payments and 
did so willingly in support of a business of which he was a director. 
The transactions that took the account into overdraft were typical for the account, and I 
havent seen anything to suggest those payments werent authorised by Mr B, nor has Mr B 
sought to suggest he didnt authorise the payments out of the account.
Ive also seen no evidence to support Mr Bs contention that theres an ongoing HMRC 
investigation, but I would say that I dont see how that would help him in this complaint. Any 
investigation into Mr B or Ls tax affairs is a separate matter that doesnt interfere with 
Barclays right to recover a debt owed by its customer. And Ive seen nothing that would 
prevent Barclays from pursuing Mr B because of any external investigation.
Mr B has said hes concerned that paying money into his account to clear the overdraft will 
mean he is complicit in the subject matter of the HMRC investigation. Notwithstanding that I 
havent seen evidence to show theres an ongoing HMRC investigation, that would be a 
completely separate matter to the complaint I am addressing. 
There appears to be a dispute between Mr B and Ls other director, but that isnt a matter for 
Barclays (or our service for that matter) to concern itself with. Barclays relationship is with 
Mr B and it is entitled to pursue him for a debt he incurred. The external matters Mr B has 
raised are a matter for him to address with the other parties, and do not prevent Barclays 
from seeking to recover a debt owed by Mr B and legitimately incurred.
Because I am looking at Mr Bs complaint about Barclays, I make no findings as to the 
operation of the account in so far as that relates to Mr B or Ls tax affairs. My determination 
simply relates to the debt Mr B says he doesnt want to pay at the moment. And, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold that complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman