DRN-3343073
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way AWP P&C SA (AWP) has settled their travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to AWP also includes their agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G booked a short trip, departing in September 2020. They were travelling to their 
destination by ferry. They purchased a single trip travel insurance policy to cover this trip  
this was insured by AWP.
Due to storm conditions Mr and Mrs Gs return ferry crossing was cancelled. They were 
subsequently booked onto the next available ferry a few days later but this was also 
cancelled. Mr and Mrs G finally managed to return home five days later than planned.
Mr and Mrs G submitted a claim to AWP for the additional accommodation and meal 
expenses they incurred. AWP considered the claim but said that the policy didnt provide 
cover for these expenses. It said that, as their return ferry crossing was delayed it would 
consider the claim under the travel delay section which provides a fixed benefit for every 
eight hours of delay, up to a maximum of £100 per person. AWP paid the maximum benefit 
of £200 to Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with this settlement and complained to AWP. They said the 
ferry was cancelled, not delayed, and therefore they didnt think the claim had been 
considered correctly. They had incurred expenses of more than £1100 as a result of the 
cancellation of the ferry crossings  and felt they shouldnt just be paid the delay benefit.
As they remained unhappy, Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that the policy 
didnt provide cover for the additional expenses incurred and so it was fair for AWP not to 
pay these costs. She said that AWPs settlement of the claim under the travel delay section 
was reasonable. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with our investigator and so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
promptly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Ms Gs complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have said that their ferry crossing was cancelled, not delayed, and therefore 
the claim shouldnt be considered under the delay section.
Insurers set out what events they will and wont cover in the terms and conditions of the 
policy. They are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for a premium) but 
the policy does need to make the position clear to the policyholder. A policy may not cover 
every single eventuality.
When reviewing the policy terms and conditions, I can see there is a section titled Section D 
 Cancellation or curtailment. This section states the following:
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR
Up to £5,000
Should you necessarily have to cancel the projected trip before commencement or 
curtail it before completion
Its clear from the policy wording that cancellation and curtailment cover is provided for trips 
that are cancelled before they start or if a trip is curtailed (cut short) before it ends. Mr and 
Mrs Gs trip started and was in fact extended, rather than cut short. Im satisfied this section 
of the policy doesnt provide cover for the situation they encountered.
AWP has considered the claim under Section E  Travel delay. Under this section it says:
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR
1 Delayed departure or arrival
a If the departure of the aircraft, train or sea vessel in which you have arranged to 
travel is delayed for at least 8 hours from the departure time specified in the travel 
itinerary, or if the arrival of the aircraft, train or sea vessel at destination is at least 8 
hours later than the time specified in the travel itinerary, due to strike or industrial 
action, disruption, terrorism (including cyber terrorism), adverse weather conditions, 
or mechanical breakdown of the aircraft, train or sea vessel.
The insurer will pay £25 for each complete 8 hour period of delay commencing from 
the original booked departure time or arrival time specified in the travel itinerary up to 
£100.
b If the departure of the aircraft, train or sea vessel in which you have arranged to 
travel is delayed for at least 8 hours from the departure time specified in the travel 
itinerary due to strike or industrial action, terrorism (including cyber terrorism), 
adverse weather conditions or mechanical breakdown of the aircraft, train or sea 
vessel, and as a direct result, you elect to cancel the whole travel itinerary prior to 
departure.
The insurer will pay irrecoverable payments and charges made for the travel, 
accommodation, tours or excursions up to £2,000.
This section also provides cover for cancellation in section b, however, once again this is if 
the whole travel itinerary is cancelled prior to departure. As the ferry crossing impacted by 
the adverse weather conditions was Mr and Mrs Gs return journey, the cancellation cover 
under this section wouldnt apply.
Even though Mr and Mrs Gs ferry crossing was cancelled, as opposed to delayed, AWP has 
agreed to consider a claim under this section. This section provides a fixed benefit payment 
to each policy holder affected - based on the length of time the departure is delayed  up to a maximum of £100. In this particular situation, Mr and Mrs G were unable to return home, 
and were therefore effectively delayed, for an additional five days. AWP has therefore settled 
the claim based on the maximum benefit for each person. And I think that was the fair thing 
to do in the circumstances.
I appreciate that the cause of the ferry crossing cancellation was completely outside the 
control of Mr and Mrs G, and that they had no option other than to pay for additional 
accommodation and other expenses during their enforced stay. However, that doesnt mean 
that AWP are therefore obligated to pay these costs.
And having looked at the policy terms and conditions, it is clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt hold 
any cover which would pay a claim for the additional expenses they incurred.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but, after taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
that AWPs settlement of the claim is fair and reasonable. Im not persuaded that AWP 
needs to pay anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman