DRN-3797282
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Metro Bank PLC has added a marker about her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Miss Y says she received notice her account was going to be closed in January 2022. And 
she says she hadnt been involved in any fraudulent activity and has been the victim of 
identity fraud herself.
Metro Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that an attempt had been made to credit 
Miss Ys account with £4,745.50 on 12 January 2022. It had reviewed what happened and 
decided to close her account and add the marker. Metro Bank said that if Miss Y provided 
evidence to support her claim and reported this to the police then it would be willing to look 
at this again.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the marker removed. There 
was a high bar to add the marker. Miss Y had said that she had been the victim of identity 
fraud in December 2021 when a direct debit payment she hadnt authorised was refunded. 
The name of the payee of the attempted payment didnt match that of Miss Y. And there 
wasnt evidence that Miss Y had the opportunity to discuss what happened with Metro Bank. 
There wasnt sufficient to show that Miss Y was complicit in what happened. But our 
adjudicator said it was a matter for Metro Bank to decide whether to continue to offer her an 
account.
Miss Y accepted the recommendation and said that emphasis on her being the victim of 
identify fraud should have been given. She was satisfied that the marker be removed as a 
resolution to the complaint. 
Metro Bank asked for an ombudsmans decision and didnt make any further points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention. A marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone was going to 
receive attempted fraudulent payments into their account  acting as a so called money 
mule. And that relevant factors in deciding whether Miss Y was deliberately complicit in what 
happened include whether she knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt 
legitimate, whether she could have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether 
she has provided generic or inconsistent explanations.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
note that Miss Y wrote a detailed letter to Metro Bank dated 13 January 2022. It registered 
the marker on 18 January 2022 and wrote a final response to Miss Y on 1 February 2022.
It's fairly up to Metro Bank to support the marker as I say. Beyond indicating that she 
should report matters to police and gather her own evidence Im not clear how Metro Bank 
did assess her explanation. I take into account that it hasnt disputed that there was an 
unauthorised payment from her account in December 2021 that was refunded. And I think 
the evidence about whether or not her account had been compromised would in some part 
come from Metro Bank itself. It hasnt provided any information about the operation of her 
account and the faster payments for example on 12 January 2022 to show how the 
account was accessed. And the payment didnt actually credit the account and how it might 
have been dispersed isnt commented on. Im also unclear what investigation police may 
have done and over what timescale bearing in mind that the expectation for the marker is 
that Metro Bank should already have all the information necessary to report the matter to 
the authorities.
Having listened to Miss Ys call with this service and considered the circumstances I find 
her explanation to be plausible and I dont find that Metro Bank has sufficient to 
demonstrate that she was deliberately complicit in what happened.
So, I consider that Metro Bank should remove the marker. That resolves things as Miss Y 
has now accepted. And as our adjudicator has said its fairly a matter for Metro Bank to 
decide whether it wanted to offer her an account or not.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Metro Bank PLC to remove the 
CIFAS marker.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman