DRN-3072922
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded her £1,998 she lost after falling 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
On 21 October 2020, Miss G received a call from someone who said they were from HMRC. 
Miss G says she was told by the caller they knew she was self-employed from 2019 to 2020 
and informed her that she had tax to pay. Miss G says she queried this, as she had 
completed her first tax return for her first year in self-employment on 9 July 2020 and didnt 
think she needed to pay any tax.
Miss G says the caller told her that they had sent letters to her address and, as they had 
confirmed the correct address with her, she was worried she had somehow missed these 
letters in the post. Miss G says the caller told her they had a warrant out for her arrest within 
the next two hours, and she was given the option of sorting the issue out now or through the 
courts. 
Miss G says this worried her as she started to believe she had completed the tax form 
incorrectly. Miss G was then transferred to another caller who listed the five offences Miss G 
was being charged for and told her she would need to pay for each one separately because 
they were payable to different departments. Miss G says she told the caller she didnt think 
she had to pay this much tax, but was told that if it was wrong, shed receive a refund. Miss 
G says this reassured her and as she believed she was speaking with HMRC, she had no 
reason to doubt this.
Miss G checked the number she was being called from online and this matched a HMRC 
number. She says she wasnt aware numbers could be spoofed so was under the 
impression she was speaking with HMRC. They also knew her name, address, and how long 
she had been self-employed  all of which served to reassure her it was a legitimate call. 
Miss G asked for evidence that she owed tax and was sent documents on HMRC headed 
paper via a social media messaging service. This further reassured her it was real.
Miss G says when making the transfers, the fraudster asked her to read out the available 
options and convinced her the friends and family was the most suitable option  and it 
wouldnt make a difference to the payment and destination. Initially Miss G transferred 
money from her other bank account (which is the subject of a different complaint with this 
service) to fund the scammer, but when she started to run out of funds, she continued to 
send funds to the scammer from her Starling account. When she depleted these funds she 
called her mother to help her out from her landline. Her mother told her that it was a scam 
and Miss G hung up.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the 
Code). This is a voluntary scheme Starling has signed up to, designed to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a 
customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer 
has not met their requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider 
whether the customer: 
ignored an effective warning 
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or 
has been grossly negligent. 
On 2 December 2020, Starling issued its final response to Miss Gs complaint. It explained it 
was unable to refund her. It said it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place and felt 
Miss G did not make sufficient checks before making the payment. 
Starling contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money Miss G paid. But no funds 
remained in the recipient account.
Our investigator looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld. She found 
Miss G had met her requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In summary, she said:
Starling hadnt provided effective warnings. Miss G didnt see the relevant HMRC 
warning because she had been guided by the scammer to select the friends and 
family option. 
She didnt think Starling had been able to establish that Miss G didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment was legitimate or that Miss G had been 
grossly negligent. She thought it was reasonable in the circumstances for Miss G to 
think she was dealing with someone from HMRC.
She said Starling ought to have fully reimbursed Miss G at the time she made her 
claim. She recommended that Starling should refund her loss from her Starling 
account in order to settle the complaint together with interest on the refund at the 
simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined her claim to the date of settlement.
Starling didnt agree. In summary it said:
Miss G has selected an incorrect warning by choosing the friends and family option 
and paid two separate third party accounts made to a persons name instead of an 
HMRC official account.
This type of scam is very well publicised
HMRC would never use a social media messaging service to send its 
communications and this warning is given on the HMRC website.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling should have refunded the money Miss G 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. In the circumstances Starling should fairly and reasonably refund 100% of the money 
Miss G lost.
The money was taken from Miss Gs current account. Its not clear how Miss G would 
have used the money if Starling had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Starling should also pay interest at the rate of 8% on the money it should have 
refunded as set out below.
I have carefully considered Starlings representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Miss G had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But it has not 
persuaded me to reach a different view.  I am not persuaded that Miss G failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for it to choose not to reimburse her under the terms of the 
CRM Code. And, for completeness, Im also satisfied that Miss G did not act with gross 
negligence.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met. Ill explain why.
Miss G doesnt recall being provided with any warnings about the possibility of a scam when 
making the transfers. Starling says the customer would have been presented with a fraud 
warning at the time she set up the payee details. It says the customer acknowledged the 
fraud warning and continued to proceed with the transaction. 
Ive considered Starlings records, which indicate to me Miss G would have seen the 
following warning when setting up a new payee:
Could this payee be part of a scam? If in doubt, just stop here and visit our website to learn 
about avoiding fraud.
Because (for the reasons explained below) Miss G selected the friends and family option to 
make the payment, according to Starlings records, there was a second enhanced warning 
which it says wouldve looked like this:
Family or friend
How well do you know the person you are about to send money to? Have you ever met 
them? Sometimes fraudsters will befriend you online and ask you for money.
Fraudsters sometimes impersonate a friend or family or family member and may have 
hacked their email or social media account. If you have any concerns, call the intended 
recipient via another means to check it was them. 
Are they asking you to move money due to their accounts being compromised? This is likely 
to be a scam, get them to verify the instruction with their bank first. 
Visit the website to learn more about how to protect yourself from fraud.
Are you sure you want to continue?
Given Starlings records from the time, I think its more likely than not that these warnings 
were given  albeit that Miss G does now not recall. 
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, an effective warning must have been (as a 
minimum) understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. Beyond these minimum 
requirements, an effective warning must provide information that gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded  otherwise it could not have been an 
effective warning. I dont consider either warnings here constitute an effective warning for 
the following reasons:
I dont think that either warning was impactful. The warning refers to fraudsters sometimes 
acting as family or friends, but it doesnt warn against HMRC scams or bring to life what this 
type of scam looks like, so Im not persuaded the warning is impactful or specific enough to 
resonate with Miss G  particularly as she had already conducted checks to support the 
legitimacy of organisation she thought was calling her. She had checked the number she 
was being called by online and there was a match with an official HMRC number. 
An effective warning should enable the customer to understand what actions they need to 
take to address the risk and the consequences of not doing so. Starling provided no actions 
Miss G could take to avoid being the victim of a scam or of how to spot a HMRC scam. It 
also didnt explain the consequences of going ahead with the payment. For example, Miss G 
wasnt advised that it would be unlikely her funds could be recovered if she made a payment 
to a scammer. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded Miss G ignored an effective warning by failing to take 
appropriate action in response to Starlings warnings.
Im also satisfied that Starling has not shown that Miss G lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Miss G checked the number calling her mobile online and it matched a legitimate 
HMRC number. She says she was unaware numbers could be spoofed so believed 
the caller was from HMRC. In the circumstances I dont think this was an 
unreasonable assumption to make.
The scammer knew Miss Gs name, address and how long shed been self-employed 
for. This gave the officer credibility and enabled him to build trust with Miss G - as 
HMRC would be aware of this information. 
Miss G had recently completed a self-assessment tax form. In the circumstances, I 
can see why Miss G didnt find the call entirely unexpected and why Miss G thought 
she had completed her first tax return incorrectly. In the circumstances, I dont 
consider this to be an unreasonable conclusion to draw.  
Miss G explained that at the time of the scam she was placed under a considerable 
amount of pressure by the fraudster/s to make a quick payment. Miss G was 
convinced that if she didnt make the payment straightaway, she would be arrested. 
This was of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudster/s to create fear  in the hope it 
would disrupt Miss Gs thinking and make her more compliant. On balance, Im 
satisfied this happened here to Miss G and that in all the circumstances, her 
response was not unreasonable. I believe that it was difficult for Miss G to think 
clearly in the moment particularly given she had little opportunity to make enquiries. 
I do appreciate what Starling is saying that an organisation like HMRC would not use social 
media messaging as well as Miss G paying two separate third party accounts with two 
different individual names instead of an HMRC official account. She did query this at the time 
and was told that she needed to make separate payments for each of the five offences as 
they were payable to different departments. I appreciate in normal circumstances she might 
reasonably have asked why they were individual names rather than official HMRC accounts. 
But in reaching this decision, Ive considered the scene that was set by the fraudster/s for Miss G and the impact I believe this reasonably had on her thoughts and actions. She told 
us she panicked and was very stressed and worried about being arrested. Im also 
persuaded by what Miss G has told this service about how this scam happened. Her 
recollections are consistent with what she told Starling when she reported the scam and with 
what other victims of scams of this nature have described. 
Overall, Im not persuaded HSBC has shown that Miss G made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payment was legitimate, and Im satisfied she wasnt 
grossly negligent for broadly the same reasons.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Miss G ought reasonably to have been fully 
refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore direct Starling Bank Limited to pay her: 
All of the money she lost  £1,998  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus 
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Starling declined Miss Gs claim under the CRM to the date 
of settlement; 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited and direct it to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman