DRN-1649566
The complaint
Ms M has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds decision to cancel a car 
insurance policy she bought and record a marker against her name with a fraud prevention 
agency.
What happened
Ms M bought a car insurance policy with the insurer, CIS. In November 2019 CIS asked Ms 
M to provide verification documents to show Ms M was living at the address she gave.
Ms M provided a utility bill. CIS checked the details of the bill with the utility provider. The 
utility provider told CIS that the name the bill was addressed to had been altered. It was 
different to the name it held on its records.
CIS told Ms M it would cancel her policy on the basis that Ms M had falsified a document in 
order to benefit from the policy. It said Ms M would need to declare the cancellation to future 
insurers. CIS said it had recorded a fraud marker against Ms M with a fraud prevention 
agency.
In January 2020 the utility provider confirmed that it had since changed the name of the 
account holder to Ms Ms. It said it had made an error. 
Ms M thought CISs decision was unfair as the utility provider had confirmed its error. But 
CIS said this didnt change its decision  because Ms M had falsified the bill document 
before sending it to CIS in November 2019.
Ms M asked us to look at her complaint. In March 2020 our investigator didnt recommend 
her complaint should be upheld. He thought CIS had acted reasonably. 
Ms M provided new information in reply to the investigators view. She said shed discovered 
her daughter had altered the utility bill without her knowledge and sent it to CIS.
But CIS said its decision remained the same. The document was sent to CIS from Ms Ms 
email address. 
Our investigator said ultimately it was Ms Ms responsibility to ensure the information she 
gave CIS was correct.
Ms M asked for an ombudsman to decide. She wanted CIS to remove the marker as she 
said she didnt send the falsified document to it. 
In September 2020 a representative for Ms M contacted us. They provided witness 
statements from Ms M, her daughter and a representative for Ms Ms daughter. 
Ms Ms representative believes CIS has incorrectly recorded the fraud marker against Ms 
Ms record.
We sent all of the information to CIS. CIS said its decision to record a fraud marker remains. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIS can cancel a policy if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In this 
case, CIS say , based on the evidence it has, its likely Ms M did breach the fraud condition 
of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy in relation to this, and they 
say:
You must not act in a fraudulent manner. You, any authorised driver, or any person 
acting for you must not make false or exaggerated claims. If you, any authorised 
driver, or anyone acting for you makes a claim knowing any part of it to be false or 
exaggerated, we will not pay the claim and we will cancel your policy. We shall be 
entitled to recover from you the amount of any claim already paid under the policy 
during the period of insurance.
If we cancel your policy on the grounds of fraudulent activity, we will keep any 
premium you have paid and may inform the police of the circumstances.
Given the above, Im satisfied that, if a policyholder has breached this condition, CIS is 
entitled to cancel the insurance policy if it wants to. 
Ms Ms representative has provided a copy of a letter from the fraud prevention agency 
confirming how the marker has been recorded. CIS has applied an application fraud 
marker. Ms Ms representative believes that CIS has incorrectly recorded a fraud marker 
against Ms Ms record. Hes referred to the four pillars of the standard of proof required, of 
which he believes three havent been met. In summary he says this is because Ms Ms 
daughter has provided a statement of truth and Ms M has provided a reasonable and 
consistent explanation. And so this disputes that she made a false or misleading statement 
to CIS.
It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need 
to decide if CIS acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition and taking the action it has.
So Ive looked at what CIS has taken into account, and whether I think this was fair.
CISs notes show that it was in contact with Ms M in November 2019 by email and by phone 
during the time it asked for verification documents. Ms M told CIS she was struggling to 
provide a utility bill to show proof of address. But she had a utility bill with her business name 
on it. CIS said it needed evidence of proof of address to prevent the cancellation of her 
policy.
The following day CIS received two emails from Ms M attaching a utility bill. Two days later it 
received a further email from Ms M to check CIS had received the utility bill. 
The utility provider has confirmed that the name of the account on the bill CIS received isnt 
the same as the bill it sent. They provided CIS with a copy of the original utility bill showing 
the same details but with a different account name. 
CIS has considered the statements of truth provided by Ms M and her daughter. But CIS 
says its satisfied it has made the correct decision. So it wont remove the fraud marker from 
Ms Ms record. The policy was in Ms Ms name and so she had a responsibility to provide correct 
information to CIS. CIS says there were three emails sent over a period of three days. All 
were sent on school days. It said the first two attached the utility bill, sent on the same day. 
The third email was a chaser to check CIS had received the document. CIS says it cant 
accept Ms Ms comment that she doesnt check her personal email account and so didnt 
know her daughter had sent the bill. It says Ms M owns two businesses and advertises on 
various internet platforms. So CIS says it isnt unreasonable for it to assume that she would 
regularly check these sites as well as her own email account and would keep it secure.
When CIS cancelled the policy, Ms M didnt agree with the decision because she said it was 
an error on the utility providers part: that the utility bill should have been in her own name in 
any event.
CIS explained under the policy how it would use and record data under the section Fraud 
Prevention:
If false or inaccurate information is provided or if we or a fraud prevention agency 
determine that you pose a fraud or money laundering risk, we may refuse to provide 
the services and/or financing you have requested, and we may stop providing 
existing services to you.
A record of any fraud or money laundering risk will be retained by the fraud 
prevention agencies and which may be checked by other organisations for example 
when: checking details on applications for credit and credit related or other facilities; 
managing credit and credit related credit accounts or facilities; recovering debt and 
tracing beneficiaries; checking details on applications for new products and dealing 
with claims for all types of insurance. This may result in others refusing to provide 
services, financing or employment to you.
Fraud prevention agencies can hold your personal data for different periods of time, 
and if you are considered to pose a fraud or money laundering risk, your data can be 
held by them for up to six years.
In relation to personal data used for the purposes described in this Part 2, we 
process this data because we have a legitimate business interest in carrying out 
these activities to protect against fraud and because there is a substantial public 
interest in preventing and detecting crime including fraud.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for CIS to decide the fraud condition of the policy had 
been breached  putting all its concerns together. And, having reached that conclusion, I 
think it was entitled to cancel the policy and add a fraud marker against Ms Ms record with a 
fraud prevention agency. 
I understand Ms M is upset about the decision CIS made. But Im satisfied the actions CIS 
took when looking into the claim were fair. And I dont think it should have done anything 
differently  or that it should have reached a different conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman