DRN-3083843
The complaint
Mr H complains about foreign exchange rates and fees applied by Lloyds Bank PLC when 
making a transfer. 
What happened
Mr H used Lloyds online banking system to instruct a transfer. Mr H has told us he wanted to 
transfer funds to a family member in sterling. But Mr H used an international transfer option 
and input an International Bank Account Number (IBAN). Lloyds system automatically 
provided a quote for converting the funds to euros. Mr H has told us he didnt realise the 
funds would be converted to euros when the transfer was sent. 
The transfer was blocked by Lloyds to complete a security check. When Mr H spoke with 
customer services he was told to call the fraud department instead. Mr H authorised the 
transfer and it was sent. 
When the transfer was received it came to light the funds had been converted to euros then 
back to sterling. As a result, Mr H says he lost out on fees and conversion rates twice.
Mr H complained to Lloyds and it paid him £29 to apologise for failing to transfer him to the 
fraud department. But Lloyds didnt agree it had made any errors with the transfer Mr H 
instructed. Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They thought Lloyds had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr H asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigator, Mr H said he didnt actively choose to send the transfer in 
euros. So I could see the information Mr H reviewed when he completed the transfer, I 
recently asked Lloyds to send in shots of all the steps he took. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, 
but Im satisfied the currency being used for the transfer was made clear by Lloyds. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr H selected the option of sending an international transfer via Lloyds online banking 
facility. The first screen asks the user to input the value they want to send in pounds followed 
by a dropdown choice of currencies for the transfer to be sent it. Euros is automatically 
prepopulated, but users can chose the currency they want. Later in the process, another 
screen confirms the amount of foreign currency being sent along with the applicable fees. 
None of the information about the currency was hidden or buried in small print. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im satisfied Lloyds gave clear information about the 
currency it would send his transfer in when he instructed it online. I havent found Lloyds 
treated Mr H unfairly. 
Mr H has queried the exchange rate used by Lloyds. I asked Lloyds to provide details of the 
exchange rate it used and it confirmed it was 1.1403 euros to the pound which was the rate 
applicable when it was sent. Im satisfied Lloyds used the correct rate of exchange on the 
date Mr Hs transfer was instructed and sent. 
Mr H recently told our investigator that he was impacted by two sets of exchange rates as 
the receiving bank had to convert his funds back into pounds. I take Mr Hs point and agree 
thats led to further deductions. But as Im satisfied Lloyds was acting in line with its 
instructions when it processed the transfer in euros, I dont agree it would be fair to tell it to 
refund the difference in this case. 
Lloyds paid Mr H a total of £29 to apologise for how a call he made was handled. Im 
satisfied thats a fair way to resolve Mr Hs complaint so Im not telling Lloyds to increase its 
offer or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman