DRN-2924857
The complaint
Ms J complains that Advanced Mortgage Solutions (Leicester) Limited mis-sold her a life and 
critical illness assurance policy. She says the adviser led her to believe the policy provided 
cover for total and permanent disability (TPD) when it does not. Ms J says this has 
prevented her from being able to make a claim with the insurer. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here. 
In 2017 Ms J was advised by Advanced Mortgage Solutions to take out a decreasing life 
assurance policy that also provided critical illness cover. It was set up over a nine-year term 
and had an initial sum assured of £51,000, with premiums of about £34 per month. The 
policy provided mortgage protection and replaced Ms Js existing life and critical illness 
assurance policy.  
Ms J was diagnosed with spinal stenosis and three bulging discs. And, in December 2019, 
she was unable work. Ms J contacted the insurer to make a TPD claim but was told the 
policy didnt include this benefit. 
After contacting the adviser about the situation, Ms J complained to Advanced Mortgage 
Solutions about her policy not having TPD cover. Advanced Mortgage Solutions didnt 
uphold the complaint and shared the advisers recollections of events, which in short, said:
He contacted Ms J to discuss saving money on her life assurance and she agreed to 
proceed. He went through the application with Ms J and advised her of the full terms 
 including that the policy didnt include TPD.
He emailed the policy details and full application to Ms J and advised her that she 
would get this sent in the post to her as well, and she should read them carefully. 
Ms J contacted him as she hadnt received the documents from the insurer and so he 
chased this up for her. Ms J subsequently confirmed receipt of these documents and 
he responded by telling her to give him a call if she had any questions.
Ms J rang him in March 2020 explaining that she has spinal stenosis and the insurer 
isnt covering it as she doesnt have the TPD benefit. He expressed regret to Ms J 
but reiterated that he gave her the policy documents. 
He added that he called the insurer, after Ms J contacted him, as he isnt a doctor but 
said spinal stenosis wouldnt have been covered as it is a chronic condition. 
Ms J was dissatisfied with Advanced Mortgage Solutions response. She said it was untrue 
the adviser informed her at the time of sale that TPD cover wasnt included. Nor did he say 
this when they spoke following her contacting the insurer. But, instead, he explained that 
when she took out the policy it was automatically included whereas now it is an additional 
benefit. Ms J disputed that spinal stenosis isnt covered under TPD. And she also claimed 
she had witnesses who heard the conversation between the adviser and herself in which he 
admitted fault in selling the policy. Ms J added she is now unable to take out another policy 
and was at a total loss regarding future mortgage payments which was causing additional 
stress and worry. 
Advanced Mortgage Solutions position didnt change. They said theyd gone back to their 
adviser who confirmed hed never admitted any form of blame regarding the TPD benefit not 
being included. And that, as sorry as they all are, the policy was sold with Ms J being aware 
of what conditions were and werent covered. Advanced Mortgage Solutions explained the 
application form was sent to Ms J and, on page two, it states there is no waiver of premium, 
TPD cover or permanent and total incapacity included. They felt the policy met Ms Js needs 
as, compared to her previous policy it replaced, no benefits were lost but it brought her 
protection needs in line with the mortgage and saved her money. Advanced Mortgage 
Solutions added that Ms J later confirmed receipt of the policy documents which included 
details of how to change anything that was wrong or omitted from the policy, along with their 
adviser telling her to call him if she had any questions.  
Ms J referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
didnt think Advanced Mortgage Solutions had to do anything further. In short, she said:
She acknowledged that Ms J says she specifically wanted TPD cover due to her 
being a physiotherapist for the NHS and that she made it clear to the adviser TPD 
cover was important to her. Our investigator also noted that Ms J said the adviser 
admitted his mistake upon finding out TPD wasnt included. But, she couldnt be sure 
what was discussed as she wasnt present at the time of the calls and there werent 
any recordings available. So, she had to consider what she thought most likely to 
have happened based on the evidence available.
The policy application, that Ms J received a copy of from the adviser, states that TPD 
cover wasnt included. But she also received a policy booklet from the adviser that 
listed TPD under the critical illness definitions table. Ms J did however subsequently 
receive a policy booklet from the insurer which didnt include TPD under the critical 
illness definitions table.
The policy that was replaced didnt include TPD cover and cost £41 per month. And 
so, the policy recommended by the advisor provided the same level of cover but at a 
cheaper premium. 
Although the adviser did initially provide the wrong policy booklet, Ms J was sent the 
correct information from the insurer and Advanced Mortgage Solutions, these both 
indicated TPD wasnt included.
Ms J disagreed with our investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly want to say that I dont underestimate the severity of Ms Js condition or the difficult 
position shes found herself in due to being unable to work. I also want to reassure Ms J that 
Ive taken everything shes said into account when deciding her complaint. But, what I must 
consider here is whether Advanced Mortgage Solutions mis-sold the life assurance policy by 
mis-informing Ms J that it included TPD cover. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Ms J but I dont think I can fairly conclude that they did. Let me explain why.Ms J alleges that the adviser told her when applying for the policy that it included TPD cover 
as she informed him that it was important to her. Ms J also says that after being told by the 
insurer she couldnt make a TPD claim, the adviser reassured her that her policy included 
this benefit. The adviser however disputes this and has said that he made it clear to Ms J 
that TPD wasnt included in her policy. 
There are clearly conflicting positions on what happened during the sale of the policy and 
when Ms J tried to claim. Unfortunately, there arent any call recordings available and as I 
wasnt part to the conversations at the time I cant be sure what was discussed. So, while 
Ive taken both Ms J and the advisers testimony in to consideration, Ive looked at the 
documentary evidence that is available. 
At the time of setting up the policy, Ms J was sent various documents including a policy 
booklet and the application form. And, as well as setting out the answers Ms J provided to 
the questions asked of her, the application form provided the policy details being applied for 
on page two. Under the benefits section, it listed the following:
Waiver     None
TPD Cover No
Permanent and Total Incapacity No
Im satisfied the above makes it clear that TPD cover wasnt included as part of Ms Js 
application. And, given Ms J has stressed how important TPD was to her (as she says she 
highlighted this to the adviser when applying), I think its reasonable for her to have read the 
application form and questioned why it wasnt included if thats what she was expecting. I 
cant see that this happened.  
The policy booklet Ms J was provided by the adviser however did list TPD as a benefit under 
the critical illness definitions section. So, although the application form gave the correct 
information about what Ms J was applying for, the policy booklet said differently. 
Following this though, Ms J received a copy of the correct policy booklet from the insurer. 
This policy booklet didnt list TPD as a benefit under the critical illness definitions section. I 
cant be sure how much, if at all, Ms J relied upon the first policy booklet she received  
rather than what she alleges she was told by the adviser about what her policy covered. That 
said, Im satisfied that Ms J was given the correct information by the insurer and I likewise 
havent seen anything to show she questioned the discrepancy between the policy booklets 
at the time. 
Ive also considered the policy that was replaced. And as it has already been explained, the 
existing policy Ms J had didnt provide TPD cover. This means the policy recommended by 
the adviser gave similar cover to Ms J but for a lower premium (about £7 per month less). 
And while TPD cover can be an attractive benefit, it isnt included in all life and critical illness 
assurance policies. So, I dont think the policy was an unsuitable recommendation given that 
it was more affordable to Ms J and it didnt reduce her existing cover. 
I realise how strongly Ms J feels about the sale of her policy and that she remains steadfast 
in her claim that the adviser told her TPD was covered under the policy. I also very much 
sympathise with her position and the impact it has on her financially as well as her mental 
health. But I havent seen anything to show the adviser told Ms J TPD cover was included 
either verbally or in writing, such as the recommendation letter - which I wouldve expected 
to see if it was a key benefit that was required and discussed at the time. I know this isnt the outcome Ms J is hoping for but, from the evidence available to me, I 
dont think I can fairly conclude that Advanced Mortgage Solutions mis-led her to think TPD 
was covered under the policy. It therefore follows that I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman