DRN-2566041
The complaint
Mrs P complains about a whole of life insurance policy sold to her in 1996 by Sesame 
Limited.
Mrs P is being represented in her complaint by a claims management company. For ease I 
will refer to all actions as being those of Mrs P.
What happened
In 1996 Sesame sold Mrs P a whole of life insurance policy with a sum assured of £40,000 
and a monthly premium of £50. 
In 2020 Mrs P complained to Sesame saying the policy was mis-sold as she was 
unemployed at the time with no dependants. Sesame looked into the sale of the policy but 
didnt uphold the complaint saying they thought the policy was appropriate. They said 
Mrs Ps circumstances were taken into account. The adviser recorded that she cared for her 
grandchildren who she considered dependents and wanted to provide for them in the event 
of her death. Mrs P remained unhappy so brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and thought the policy was suitable. 
They said the policy met the recorded need at the time which was providing for Mrs Ps 
grandchildren. Mrs P disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale took place in 1996 which is some 25 years ago. Its therefore not surprising that 
Sesame doesnt have a full record of what happened. Also at that time financial regulations 
were different and whilst advisers still had to give a suitable recommendation some other 
requirements werent the same. In situations like this I must come to a decision on what I 
think is mostly likely to have happened based on the balance of probabilities.
At the time of the sale the advisor completed a Personal Confidential Client Information form. 
This records what was discussed between the adviser and Mrs P. Its quite some time ago, 
and I wasnt party to the conversation, but I find evidence like this from the time persuasive 
about what was discussed.
The form records that Mrs P was aged 56, a widow and living in rented accommodation. Her 
income was made of up several sources including a widows pension other benefits and 
there was some savings. Mrs P had no existing insurance protection in place but did have a 
will leaving her assets to be divided among her three grown up daughters. 
The reason for Mrs P wanting to the policy is recorded in the Footnotes section of the form 
as:
She has no dependents but cares for her grandchildren and considers them to be her 
dependents. She wishes to effect life insurance to provide for them in the event of her death.
Later in the Aims & Objectives part of the form its recorded that Providing for your 
dependants in the event of your death was Very Important to Mrs P. 
The form also records Mrs Ps attitude to risk as balanced. 
After meeting with Mrs P the adviser sent her a recommendation letter confirming what was 
discussed. This confirms why Mrs P wants cover and says that options of term assurance 
and whole of life cover were reviewed. It says that Mrs P opted for a whole life policy as it 
suited her circumstances as she wanted a sum paid to her beneficiaries in the event of her 
death. Based on this the adviser recommended a policy with a sum assured of £40,000 and 
a monthly premium of £50. The adviser explained the policy provided a high level of 
protection and that even though there was a cash value after five years, it shouldnt be 
regarded as an investment. 
Looking at all of the available information from the time Im satisfied that Mrs Ps 
circumstances were discussed and that the policy was suitable for her needs. 
This type of policy is set up to provide the same level of life cover for as long as possible, 
and as long as the premiums are paid it would last all of Mrs Ps life. With a unit linked whole 
of life policy part of the premium is invested in a fund. This fund is designed to build up over 
the years to support the premiums in the future as the cost of providing cover increases. This 
allows the policy to be maintained for longer. It turns out that due to the economy, and other 
financial factors which couldnt be foreseen at the time, expected growth rates have changed 
a lot since 1996. 
A term policy on the other hand ends after an agreed period of time so doesnt provide long 
term protection is usually more suitable if a policy holder has a mortgage, which Mrs P didnt 
have. So this type of policy wouldnt have been suitable. 
Mrs P says that she was widowed and unemployed when the policy was sold. That might be 
the case, however that doesnt make the policy unsuitable when considering her recorded 
needs at the time.
There is a discrepancy on the documentation which in one place says Mrs P is divorced, but 
in another place says she is widowed. Due to the time that passed I cant be say why this is 
the case, but Im satisfied a small error like that does not affect the advice given.
Mrs P says that she had no dependents at the time, and this true. But the Personal 
Confidential Client Information form says that Mrs P cares for her grandchildren and 
considered them her dependents. As this is what was recorded, I think on balance, this is 
what was discussed, and its fair of the adviser to reply on that information when making a 
recommendation. Mrs P might not have had any direct dependents of her own, but the 
Personal Confidential Client Information form shows she wished to provide for her 
grandchildren in the event of death, and this policy provides that cover.  
Mrs P says she was an inexperienced investor and had no understanding of how this type of 
policy worked. The Personal Confidential Client Information form records that Mrs Ps 
attitude to risk was balanced. This is the only information from the time and I think, on 
balance, its fair to assume there was a discussion about the product and the risks involved. 
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Mrs P and it 
met her needs as recorded in the Personal Confidential Client Information form.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman