DRN-2954091
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr J bought solar panels for his home in 2020. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr J into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. Mr J has added that he didnt 
realise he was taking out a loan, that documents with his signature have been completed 
fraudulently. He says he was told that the solar panels would not cost him anything other 
than nominal upfront costs. 
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt feel there was 
sufficient evidence to support the allegation of fraud made by Mr J  so he felt Mr J had 
agreed to take the loan. But he thought that the benefits of the panels were mis-represented 
to Mr J, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the 
panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance 
of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Ikano didnt respond so 
the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case in part. 
Like our adjudicator explained, the allegation of fraud is serious, and wed need persuasive 
evidence to uphold a complaint on that basis. Ive seen a number of documents submitted by 
both Ikano and Mr J making it clear that a loan from Ikano was being used to finance the 
Solar panels. Mr Js signature appears on documents such as the satisfaction note and this 
clearly has details of the Ikano loan on it  I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me 
that this signature was not made by Mr J. Additionally, Ive also listened to a call recording 
submitted by Ikano where Mr Js loan application was discussed. Based on what Ive seen, 
overall, I think its more likely Mr J agreed to take the loan with Ikano.  
However, the evidence does support the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and 
Mr J was not given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-
funding and would equate to an additional cost for him. So, I uphold this part of Mr Js 
complaint. 
Overall, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr J fairly and he lost out because of what Ikano did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Mr J
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr J from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr J is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Ikano needs to reimburse Mr J accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr J by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mr Js loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr J in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Js monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he wouldve paid more each month than he shouldve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr J 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr J and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr J and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr J accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr J has settled the loan, Ikano should pay Mr J the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr J has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr J should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr J paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr J receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr J paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr J receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr J the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-fundingIm satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr J first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint in part. Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman