DRN-3917850
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected his claim 
against it under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in early 2019. The purchase was funded by a ten year 
loan from OCRF, and so that business is liable under the Act for any misrepresentations 
made by the installer. Mr S says the installer misled him into believing that the panels would 
be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC 
did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the sales documentation sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels 
very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
There are two contracts: the original, titled Quotation/Order, and a new one, titled 
Variation to Contract Form. I will consider both. Each document is two pages long. Each 
has been signed by Mr S, so I am satisfied that the installers salesman did bring this 
information to his attention.
On the first page of the original contract is the cash price of the panels, £8,050. This 
document does not give the loan interest, and so I think that Mr S could be forgiven for 
overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come to £805 
which would have to be repaid each year (the loan term being ten years).
The second page is titled System Performance Information. There is a breakdown of the 
income the panels were likely to generate, and of the savings on Mr Ss electricity bills. At 
the end of that it says in bold capital letters Total benefit for year one, and next to that it 
gives two figures indicating a range, from £307.44 to £361.35. It immediately repeats the 
higher figure. I think these figures are conspicuous; they are not buried in some fine print.
£361.35 is obviously less than half of £805. Again, I think this is clear. So the original 
contract made it plain that the panels would fall far short of paying for themselves.
The varied contract is broadly similar. It gives the same cash price, £8,050, but gives higher 
benefit figures: the top of the range is £399.99. That is still less than half of what it would 
need to be to be self-funding.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr S about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan, and so I dont think it is plausible than the salesman told him otherwise.
I could stop here, but for completeness I will add that another document, titled Validation 
Sheet  also signed by Mr S  gives the monthly loan repayments as £104.06, which of 
course includes the loan interest. That comes to more than £1,200 a year, or about 150% of 
£805. On the same page, immediately above this figure, it gives the loan amount  £8,050  
and the loan term  120 months.
On the same page is the total amount repayable, £12,487.80. Mr S says the salesman told 
him he would make between £10,000 and £12,000 during the first ten years, so even if 
I accepted that as being true (which I dont, given the benefit figures I have quoted above), 
the top of that range still falls short of the total he had to repay during the same period. So 
even on his own recollection of what he was told, the salesman didnt say that the panels 
would pay for themselves during the loan term. (I have noted that Mr S also says the 
salesman told him that these figures had been reduced by 30%, but I am not persuaded that 
he would really have accepted that the panels would actually make him up to £17,000 in ten 
years without asking to see something in writing to that effect.)
Finally, Mr S has also complained that the salesman told him that having solar panels would 
increase the value of his property, and that he has since learned that this is not true. 
However, a misrepresentation is an untrue statement which induces someone to enter into a 
contract. Mr S says he was not considering moving at the time of the sale, so even if the 
salesman told him that and it was untrue, I dont think that would have induced Mr S to buy 
the panels. It was therefore not something for which OCRF could be held liable under the 
Act.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman