DRN-2108901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) unfairly declined their claim 
for the cancellation of their holiday. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were due to travel abroad on 21 April 2020. Due to the travel restrictions 
imposed by both the UK government and that of their destination country, Mr and Mrs C 
cancelled their holiday on 8 April 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C attempted to obtain a refund for their flights, accommodation and tours directly 
from the suppliers. They were successful in getting a refund for the flights, but couldnt get a 
refund of the deposit theyd paid towards their accommodation and tours. So they made a 
claim against their policy. 
URV turned down the claim. It said Mr and Mrs Cs policy excluded claims for cancellation 
due to Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice. It said other policies were available 
which may provide this cover, but Mr and Mrs Cs policy didnt. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to URV. They said theyd bought the most comprehensive policy 
URV made available. And at the time of taking out the policy, they said they were not offered 
any additional options to extend the cover further. 
URV responded to the complaint. It set out the policy terms around cancellation cover and 
said Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances of cancelling due to FCO advice wasnt covered. It said 
that although it didnt provide a policy which covered those circumstances, there were other 
policies on the market which did. And it said if Mr and Mrs C had been unhappy with their 
policy, they could have cancelled it within the first 14 days. 
Unhappy with URVs response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. He said he didnt think URV had fairly 
declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim. He said this was because their policy didnt provide any 
cover if they had to cancel a trip due to FCO advice, but also didnt provide cover if they 
travelled against FCO advice. He said he thought this was unreasonable and URV should 
pay the claim. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted the investigators view. URV disagreed and said it thought the 
investigators view was unfair. It maintained that the reason for cancellation was not covered, 
and that there were other policies Mr and Mrs C could have purchased which would have 
provided further cover. And it asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
And so the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant FCA regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); 
and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy terms and conditions 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy contains the following exclusion:
Conditions and exclusions applying to your policies 
You are not covered under any section, unless specified, for any of the following 
circumstances: 
You are travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure.
And under the cancellation section of the policy, there is no cover if the policyholder cancels 
because of a change in FCO guidance. 
The cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Cs policy says: 
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section for; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable 
at the time of your departure.. 
 
The claim Mr and Mrs Cs claim isnt covered by the cancellation terms of their policy. But Ive 
considered whether I think its fair and reasonable for URV to decline the claim. And I dont 
think that it is. 
The policy terms and conditions mean that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have been covered if 
theyd travelled against the advice of the FCO. But they also wouldnt have been covered 
had they cancelled their trip in the same circumstances.  
The role of the ombudsman is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of a case. And I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs C to have been put in a 
position where their policy provided them with no cover if they travelled, but also didnt cover 
them if they cancelled their trip. 
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs C have evidenced that they were unable to recover the deposit they paid for 
their accommodation and tours. So I think URV should put things right by paying Mr and Mrs 
Cs claim for their unrecoverable costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim subject to the remaining policy terms. 
And it should add 8% simple interest from the date of the claim to the date of settlement.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman