DRN-3319663
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly turned 
down her business interruption insurance claim. 
Mrs W has been helped in bringing this complaint by Mr W but, for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all actions and comments as being those of Mrs W.
What happened
Mrs W held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. She claimed on her policy 
after her business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. 
RSA turned down the claim as it thought Mrs Ws business had closed due to the 
Government Regulations rather than because a case of Covid-19 had manifested at her 
business premises. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mrs W brought her complaint to our service. She said her 
and Mr W both had Covid-19 in March 2020 but were unable to get a diagnosis due to a lack 
of testing. She said she had tried to find evidence of calling 111 but hadnt been able to. Mrs 
W thought she should be covered for business interruption and loss of stock. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
didnt think shed shown it was most likely that a case of Covid-19 had manifested at her 
business premises. 
Mrs W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mrs Ws business. However, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mrs Ws claim.
Business interruption 
The relevant extension covers loss as a result of: 
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises 
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Mrs Ws claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on her premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. I think its likely that a court would interpret 
manifesting to mean that someone at the premises either needed to display symptoms or 
have been diagnosed with Covid-19. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic 
approach, and to consider whether other evidence can be provided that supports, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 manifested itself at the insured premises prior to 
closure. 
As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to 
demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers. Mrs W said her and Mr W both 
experienced symptoms of Covid-19 from 23 March through to April. They said they called 
111 but were told there wasnt any testing available and there wasnt anything that could be 
done. Mrs W has only been able to provide her testimony to support that she and Mr W had 
Covid-19. I have to bear in mind that many people who were unwell at this time didnt have 
Covid-19 and in this case I dont think Mrs Ws testimony is enough for me to fairly conclude 
that its most likely a case of Covid-19 manifested at her premises. Therefore, I think RSA 
has acted reasonably in turning down Mrs Ws claim. 
Loss of stock 
Mrs Ws policy provides cover for deterioration of stock due to:
 Damage that occurs as a result of deterioration or putrefaction of Stock in the 
Cold Chamber of any refrigeration unit while at the Premises
A) due to the rise or fall in temperature resulting from any cause not excluded                     
or 
B) due to the action of refrigerant fumes which have escaped from the machine 
during the Period of Insurance. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Mrs Ws stock deteriorated due to a rise or fall in 
temperature or due to the action of refrigerant fumes, so this doesnt cover her claim. 
I recognise this isnt the answer Mrs W was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I cant fairly require RSA to pay her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Sarann TaylorOmbudsman