DRN-2819671
The complaint
Mr B complained that his claim under his home insurance policy with Aviva Insurance 
Limited (Aviva) was unfairly declined.  
What happened
Mr B said he switched on his shower (which was over the bath) and went downstairs while 
the water warmed up. After a while he said he noticed water pouring through the ceiling of 
his downstairs shower room. He rushed back upstairs and realised hed accidentally left the 
shower curtain outside the bath and the shower head was pointed at the curtain. He said 
water was pouring onto the bathroom floor and was flowing under the bath. He said the 
water damaged downstairs, including his living room wall, the ceiling to his shower room and 
a downstairs cupboard.
Mr B made a claim on his policy and Aviva appointed their contractor to assess the damage. 
Aviva subsequently declined the claim. It said the damage to the downstairs of the property 
was caused by poor maintenance and had happened gradually over time rather than as a 
result of a one-off event. So, it said the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint was upheld. He said that Aviva had 
agreed there had been an escape of water, but he thought Aviva had unreasonably relied on 
exclusions within the policy to decline the claim. Aviva disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 6 April 2021. I said:
Aviva rejected the claim as it said, all in all the property does not look to have been kept in 
the well-maintained order that the general conditions of the policy require.
I have checked the general conditions in the policy, and it states the policyholder must take 
all reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, loss or damage and keep the insured 
property in good condition. If Aviva can reasonably demonstrate the property was poorly 
maintained and this led to the damage that has been claimed for then I am likely to not 
uphold the complaint. However, if it is more likely that the one-off incident caused the 
damage, then I will uphold the complaint.
I have started by looking at the photographic evidence provided by both Aviva and Mr B. I 
have looked first at the damage to the living room wall. Aviva have explained that on the 
other side of the living room wall is a downstairs shower and it has explained how it thinks 
this has caused the damage to the living room wall.
Aviva described the condition of the shower, saying: The shower tray itself is showing signs 
of deteriorated sealant around the base of the tray on the external edge. On the internal it is 
clear to see that it has recently been renewed  poorly. I suspect this may have been done 
prior to the surveyor arriving on site. The plinth edging on the outside of the shower tray is 
also heavily water stained and is actually peeling away from the tray  this indicates to me 
there has been ongoing water exposure for some time that has now allowed this to happen.
Aviva also described the damage to the living room wall (adjacent to the shower) saying: 
The adjacent wall is also saturated, and the plaster is starting to bubble with the main effect 
of the bubbling being lower down on the wall. If this water damage was from above as 
suggested then the concentrated area of water damage would be on the upper part of the 
wall and cascade downwards  not the other way around. Unless the water was penetrating 
the wall from the shower on the other side which could only be as a result of water 
penetration through the grout areas, or low-level seals.
I have looked at the photos provided by both Aviva and Mr B of the downstairs shower room 
and living room. I think the photos of the shower indicate it hasnt been maintained to a 
reasonable standard. The shower doesnt look like it has been installed well and its showing 
significant signs of deterioration. I think Avivas commentary of this damage is consistent 
with what I can see in the photos and therefore, I dont intend to uphold this aspect of the 
complaint as I think this area was already significantly damaged from the impact of the 
poorly fitted and maintained shower.
I have looked at the evidence provided for the other two areas of damage, the shower room 
ceiling and the hallway ceiling / cupboard.
I have first considered the shower room which is immediately below the bath / shower room 
where the incident occurred.
Aviva described the condition of the bath / shower room, saying: The bath is sealed against 
the wall, but the sealant bead does not look big and I would question its effectiveness. A 
standard 6-8mm bead should be installed along the edges of sanitaryware and I cant
see this has been done. Also, the flooring around the bath, although not clearly seen in the 
photos, does not appear to be damaged or displaced which I would expect from the level of 
water that the policy holder is suggesting occurred.
Aviva also described the damage to the shower room ceiling (below the bath / shower room) 
saying: The shower room downstairs is showing signs of a crack on the ceiling but again 
when looking at this it does not appear fresh or recent, the edges appear feathered and the 
area of the crack can be seen to have heavy brush/rub marks on it suggesting this area has 
been previously painted or worked on.
I have looked at the photos provided by both Aviva and Mr B of the bath / shower room and 
ceiling to the downstairs shower room. The tiling in the bath /shower room looks more recent 
than what I observed in the downstairs shower room and whilst I can see there have been 
some repairs to the sealant, I cant say this area looks like it has been badly maintained. It 
just looks like Mr B has taken reasonable steps to maintain the seal around the bath. 
I know Aviva have said there should be a larger bead of sealant. But as I cant see any 
obvious gaps and it looks in reasonable order I find it hard to say with certainty that the 
damage to the downstairs shower ceiling was caused by poor maintenance in the bathroom 
above. The ceiling of the downstairs shower room hasnt been decorated for some time. The 
photos show a crack around a metre or so in length and some discolouration to the ceiling. It 
is difficult to tell if this is long standing or not. However, I think it is more likely the damage 
was caused by the one-off incident than from the bathroom above being poorly maintained, 
so I intend to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
The final area of damage to be considered is to the hallway ceiling / cupboard. By Mr Bs 
own admission, he said he could not say for certain this was caused by the incident.Aviva said The cupboard areas do look in poor repair but again there is no evidence of 
water marking. On timber especially I would expect to see water markings to suggest water 
intake and swelling  this is not the case.
Again, I have viewed the photos provided, but I dont agree with Avivas viewpoint. There 
does appear staining to the ceiling of the cupboard and partially to the ceiling of the hallway. 
Aviva said the cupboard was in poor condition, but I dont think this is relevant to how it may 
have been damaged. You wouldnt expect a cupboard to have water seals. The timber 
shelves dont look impacted, but there is one shelf that Mr B said was made from MDF that 
did look like it had some damage.
The location of the hallway and cupboard doesnt suggest that poor maintenance could have 
led to the damage observed, as its not directly below the upstairs bath / shower. However, 
the location is also diagonally across the room above from where the incident occurred so 
its also difficult to see how water may have got to this area of the property. As I cant 
ascertain exactly how this part of the property was damaged and it could possibly have been 
damaged from a separate incident, I intend not to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Mr B has explained how the leak led to deep water in the upstairs bathroom and it travelled 
back down the length of the bath and fell through some holes cut for pipework before falling 
down a cavity wall. I am not persuaded by this argument. I think it unlikely a shower would 
cause water build up and as the bath was on floorboards, I think it more likely the water will 
have fallen through the cracks in the floorboards.
In summary, I intend to partially uphold this complaint for the damage to the downstairs 
shower room ceiling, which is where I think most of the water will have fallen to. I dont 
uphold the complaint for the damage to the living room wall or hallway / cupboard for the 
reasons I have set out.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B responded and didnt agree with all my findings. Mr B didnt provide any new evidence. 
However, he said Aviva hadnt taken any photographs of his property and he said its report 
of the incident was inaccurate.
Mr B said his shower room was reasonably maintained and he said there is no photographic 
evidence to back Avivas claims. He said Aviva didnt bother to check the shower control was 
leaking. He said Aviva had falsely claimed the at his cupboard was undamaged and it didnt 
look under his bath for leaks.
Mr B explained in his downstairs shower that the tiles were grouted, and the installer placed 
a water proof membrane behind them. He saw no reason for the shower walls to leak. 
Aviva didnt reply to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure Mr B that Aviva did supply me with some photographs of his property. I 
cant say for certain who took these photographs, but they were different to those enclosed 
in the report written by Mr B.Mr B didnt think Avivas review of the incident was thorough. I can only base my decision on 
the reports and photographs provided to me, along with the account Mr B provided in his 
complaint. He told us the leak was caused by the shower head spraying water into the 
shower curtain and onto the floor.
I have used all the photographs provided (by Aviva and Mr B) to reach the conclusions I set 
out in my provisional decision. As no further evidence has been provided, I see no reason to 
change these conclusions. Whilst Mr Bs downstairs shower may have been installed 
correctly, the photographs suggest that the showers condition at the time of the incident had 
deteriorated and I think this is likely to have led to the damp in the living room wall. I know Mr 
B will be disappointed by my decision, but I have made my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened.
Mr B has said he has now renovated his shower room, so he will be required to provide any 
valid receipts to Aviva in order to allow it to settle his claim.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr Bs claim for the downstairs shower room in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy (on production of valid receipts).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman