DRN-2441124
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs M say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in 1982 and Bradford & Bingley 
have confirmed there was no PPI sold alongside this mortgage. As Mr and Mrs B havent 
made a specific complaint about this mortgage, I havent considered this further. I have 
considered the PPI policy sold alongside their second mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in 
1991.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. Bradford & Bingley has been able to give me the mortgage 
application form that Mr and Mrs B signed. The quality isnt very good which is 
unsurprising as its almost 30 years old. But I can see there was a separate section for 
PPI, in which Mr and Mrs B selected to have accident and sickness cover for Mr B only 
and for the monthly benefit to total £200. On balance, I think Mr and Mrs B were aware 
they could amend the policy to suit their needs and looking at the form, I think they were 
aware they could decline the policy if they didnt want it. 
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M - so it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs M 
enough clear and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for 
them.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. Mr M initially thought the date of sale was in the 1970s, 
so has given us his circumstances that were relevant for then. We asked Mr M what his 
circumstances were in 1991 when the policy was taken out, but we didnt receive a 
response. Because of this, it isnt clear if the any of the significant exclusions affected 
him. Overall, I dont think the policy was too dissimilar to what Mr and Mrs M reasonably 
thought they were buying from the information they were given. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It also looks like it 
was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have declined the cover had 
Bradford & Bingley done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Bradford & Bingley should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Bradford & Bingley doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman