DRN-4110221
The complaint
Mr A complains through a representative that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) provided him with loans without carrying out appropriate 
affordability checks.
 
What happened
Mr A was granted three loans by MoneyBoat, Ive outlined his borrowing history in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 12/01/2021 30/04/2021 4 £72.27
2 £300.00 11/08/2021 31/12/2021 5 £96.72
3 £350.00 27/06/2022 outstanding 6 £110.73
An outstanding balance remained due for loan 3 when the final response letter (FRL) was 
issued by MoneyBoat. 
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. It concluded it had made a 
reasonable decision to provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks 
which showed it Mr A could afford the loans. Unhappy with this response, Mr As 
representative referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. He said MoneyBoat 
had reasonable grounds to believe Mr A could afford the loans and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr As representative didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  As 
no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr A could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr As 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr A. These factors include:
Mr A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr A having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr A. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied.  
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr A was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr As complaint.
Before I start looking at the checks before each loan was granted, I do need to point out that 
there is a gap in lending of around three months between loans 1 and 2 and then a further 
break in lending of six months between loans 2 and 3. This is important as it shows Mr A 
wasnt reliant on these loans because they werent taken out in a consecutive manner. For 
example, loan 3, is clearly the start of a new lending chain  so although its loan 3, 
MoneyBoat could in effect treat this loan as loan one of a new lending chain. Ive kept this 
mind when thinking about the checks it carried out. 
Before each loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr A for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £1,336 for loans 1, £1,593 for loan 2 and finally £2,100 for loan 3. 
MoneyBoat says the income figures were checked either by obtaining a copy of Mr As wage 
slip or by cross referencing information through a third-party report.  
Mr A also declared monthly outgoings of £700 for loan 1, £844 for loan 2 and £755 for loan 
3. As part of the application process, MoneyBoat used information from its credit search 
(which Ill come onto discuss below) to adjust the declared expenditure Mr A had provided. 
As a result, of this check, Mr As monthly expenditure was increased by £150 per month for 
loan 1, £6 for loan 2 and £95 for loan 3. 
After carrying out these checks, Mr As disposable income ranged from £486 at loan 1 to 
£1,250 for loan 2.  Even when MoneyBoat made adjustments to the disposable income that Mr A had declared, he still had sufficient income to be able to afford the repayments he had 
to make. 
Before each loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth 
saying here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do 
is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Ive reviewed the credit check results and there isnt anything in any of the results that 
wouldve indicated that Mr A was having financial difficulties, for example it knew there were 
not any insolvency markers or debt management plans. There also wasnt anything within 
the results that indicated Mr A was reliant on these sorts of loans (or home credit loans). 
At loan one, MoneyBoat knew that Mr A had defaulted on three accounts. One in 2018 and 
the other two were defaulted around a year before loan 1 was granted. I dont think it 
wouldve given them cause for concern given how long ago they were applied, and the fact 
MoneyBoat advanced relatively modest loans. Ive also considered that MoneyBoat works in 
an area of the market where a credit file maybe less than perfect.  
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
MoneyBoat to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr A had provided. So, while Mr As representative has provided his bank 
statements, in this case, it wouldve been disproportionate for MoneyBoat to have 
considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the 
information Mr A gave about his income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt 
anything else to suggest that Mr A was having financial difficulties or that these loans would 
be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman