DRN-3964445
The complaint
Ms P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed and then failed to correctly set up an 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) and to later transfer her ISA to another provider. Ms P also 
complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to close her accounts despite several requests.
What happened
Ms P says she asked Barclays to transfer the cash and shares held in her Investment 
Account to an ISA account in June 2017. The ISA account was in place in January 2018 
and, after Ms P asked Barclays why the transfer to the ISA hadnt happened, the investment 
holdings were transferred into Ms Ps ISA early April, but the cash element remained within 
Ms Ps Investment Account.
In June 2019 Barclays received a request from another provider to transfer the assets within 
Ms Ps ISA. This transfer completed shortly after the request had been received, but 
unfortunately because the cash from Ms Ps savings account hadnt been transferred to the 
ISA in April 2018, it wasnt sent to the new provider. In additional, a dividend payment 
Barclays received from a holding that had been transferred was held in cash and remained 
in Ms Ps ISA with Barclays until it was sent to the new provider in 2021.
Ms P instructed Barclays to close all of her accounts in June 2021. The instruction wasnt 
carried out for several months and Ms P continued to pay a monthly fee for her accounts.
When Ms P complained to Barclays it said that it didnt uphold the complaint but did offer to 
pay Ms P £100 for the delay in dealing with her complaint. In a follow-up response Barclays 
accepted it failed to deal promptly with Ms Ps request to close her accounts and refunded 
six-months account fees to the account before it was closed. 
Ms P brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought Barclays had failed to respond to 
several requests from Ms P to close her accounts and that Barclays should pay Ms P £100 
for the distress and inconvenience this caused her. The Investigator explained that when the 
new ISA provider requested the ISA be transferred it had only requested the funds in Ms Ps 
ISA be transferred, and not the cash within the savings account, and this was the reason the 
cash hadnt been transferred.
Ms P asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint and properly address that Barclays 
held on to the dividend payment when HMRC guidance says it should have been sent to the 
new provider. Ms P felt that the Investigator hadnt fully considered this aspect of the 
complaint. The comments and evidence persuaded me that Barclays should pay Ms P 
£125.00 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. Even though the change to the 
outcome wasnt significant I issued a provisional decision and fully addressed what 
happened to the dividend payment and invited comments from Ms P and Barclays. Ms P 
accepted my provisional decision without any further comments. Barclays accepted the 
small increase in the distress and inconvenience payment and the reason why I thought this 
should happen. So, Ive decided to adopt my provisional decision as my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delay in transferring funds to an ISA in 2017
An undated letter that Ms P says she sent to Barclays instructed the transfer of one of her 
holdings to another provider, and asked to transfer the rest of her holdings into a new 
2017/18 ISA. Barclays accepted an ISA had been set-up but said it hadnt received the 
undated letter from Ms P instructing the transfer of assets from Ms Ps Investment Account 
to the ISA.
The consolidated account statement for Ms Ps Investment Account for this period supports 
that the transfer of the shares to another provider didnt happen and that these were still in 
the Investment Account until they were sold in September 2017. So, I think its more likely 
than not Barclays didnt receive the instruction Ms P says she sent in June 2017. With no 
other evidence available to show me what happened here, I can understand why Barclays 
only transferred the shares and funds to the ISA. Theres no dispute the transfer of the cash 
didnt happen. Ms P said she didnt realise the cash hadnt been included in the transfer to 
her 2017/18 ISA, but Barclays did send an updated statement in April 2018 showing the 
cash remained within the Investment Account. Im satisfied this would have made it 
reasonably clear to Ms P the cash remained in the Investment Account and not the ISA. So, 
Im satisfied Barclays dont need to do anything else in this regard.
Transfer of ISA to new provider July 2019
In 2018 the balance of Ms Ps Investment Account was transferred to an Investment Saver 
Account. This left Ms P with an ISA account, an Investment Account, and an Investment 
Saver Account. Statements sent by Barclays to Ms P in January and July 2019 confirmed 
the Investment Account now had a nil balance and that the balance had been transferred to 
Ms Ps Investment Saver Account. This meant the cash that wasnt transferred to the 
2017/18 ISA remained outside of an ISA wrapper.
When the new provider requested the transfer of assets from Ms Ps ISA account, the 
instruction appears to me to have been completed correctly  albeit that an element of cash 
that Ms P believed was in the ISA was actually now held within the Investment Saver 
Account. Barclays transferred all of the assets held in Ms Ps ISA to the new provider on 20 
June 2019, but shortly after the transfer completed Barclays received a dividend payment 
from one of the holdings it had transferred.
Barclays sold the dividend shares on 25 July 2019 and the cash was held within Ms Ps ISA 
account. Theres no dispute it wasnt transferred to the new provider until 20 July 2021. 
Because Barclays transferred the other assets held in Ms Ps ISA account at the time, Im 
satisfied it didnt do anything wrong. I understand Ms P may have thought that there was 
cash within her 2017/18 ISA, but this wasnt the case, and her recent statements had 
highlighted this.
However, Ive decided Barclays didnt correctly deal with the dividend payment it received 
after the transfer happened. HMRC guidance to ISA providers is quite clear that any income 
received by the old ISA manager after the date of the transfer should be sent to the new ISA 
manager - unless either the old manager has been instructed to pay income received to the 
investor or the income received is below the minimum the new manager will accept. In this 
case Ive not seen any instruction for the income to be paid to Ms P and the statements from 
Barclays show it held the cash in Ms Ps the ISA account. This amount was later transferred to the new provider in July 2021, so its unlikely the amount received by the new provider 
was below the minimum it would accept. Although Barclays didnt act promptly in sending 
the dividend payment to the new provider, Im satisfied the dividend did remain in an ISA 
wrapper at all times.
Cancelling the accounts
Barclays accepts that it delayed acting on Ms Ps instructions to close her accounts in 2021. 
This resulted in Ms P paying more monthly account fees than she should have. Barclays has 
already refunded these payments which I think is fair and reasonable. However, Ms P had to 
raise this matter several times before Barclays acted on her instruction to close her accounts 
and Ive decided this caused her some distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
Barclays delayed the transfer of the dividend to the new provider, but the dividend never fell 
outside of an ISA wrapper and there arent any tax considerations I need to consider. In 
respect of the delay in closing the accounts, Ms P had to contact Barclays several times to 
get this completed. I appreciate that Barclays refunded the account charges Ms P paid 
during this delay, but it still meant Ms P had to contact Barclays several times before the 
accounts were closed. 
Taking both these aspects into account Ive decided that Barclays should pay Ms P £125 for 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused. For completeness, Ive seen that Barclays has 
already paid Ms P £100 for the delay in dealing with her complaint. Complaint handling is not 
a regulated activity and Im unable to consider this aspect of the complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold part of Ms Ps complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms P 
£125.00 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman