DRN-2930418
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) failed to carry out their instruction for 
a payment from their currency account to their sterling savings bank account , causing a 
them a loss on exchange rates movements. 
What happened
Mr B says in March 2020 he made an online transfer between his US currency bank account 
(HCA) and his sterling savings bank account with HSBC, to take advantage of the beneficial 
exchange rate available at that time. Mr B and Mrs B says he contacted HSBC as the 
payment hadnt shown on his bank accounts and was told these had been held by HSBCs 
fraud department for checking, and he had made two transactions for same amount , which 
Mr B accepts,  but he says he only did this as he was never informed the first payment was 
completed. Mr B then made a series of telephone calls to various departments and was 
informed there would be a cancellation fee for one of the payments, but Mr B wasnt 
prepared to pay this. Mr B says the rate he was offered meant he would lose out 
considerably from the rate he had originally booked - a sum in excess of £7000. 
Mr B says he accepts Covid played a part in disruption of the services, but HSBC should 
have been able to provide him with at least the conversion rate of one of the original 
payments he requested, not the amount or exchange rate he was told. Mr B feels HSBC 
should honour the original exchange rate without any further fees given the poor service he 
has received. 
HSBC says they accept the payments were held longer than normal due to Covid pandemic, 
but as the payments were reversed by their fraud team and so no loss has occurred. HSBC 
have accepted the service offered wasnt what they would expect and have paid Mr B and 
Mrs B £200 to recognise this. 
Mr B and Mrs B werent happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt there was insufficient evidence to show Mr B and Mrs B were informed the 
exchange rate was offered to them at the rate they claim. The investigator says that Mr B 
refused to pay any cancellation fee for the first payment so he couldnt expect HSBC to allow 
the second payment at the preferential exchange rate to go ahead. The investigator felt 
while HSBC hadnt dealt with the fraud check straight away this was understandable given 
the issues Covid had presented. He felt the £200 compensation paid by them to Mr B and 
Mrs B for the poor service provided  was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand that it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr B and Mrs B to 
have thought they had taken advantage of a competitive exchange rate, only to find this 
hadnt happened. When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC were at fault for Mr 
B and Mrs B not being able to take advantage of the beneficial exchange rate when they 
looked to sell the US dollars held in their US currency bank account.
The first thing to say is when coming to a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. 
What happened here was on 18 March 2020 Mr B went online to convert US dollars held in 
his US currency bank account (HCA) to his sterling bank account with HSBC. Mr B accepts 
at that time he had duplicated the instructions in error, partly because he wasnt sure if he 
had correctly made the first payment. Mr B has made it clear to this service the reason for 
making the transaction was to take advantage of the fact sterling was trading at a low ebb 
against the US dollar. Mr Bs complaint here is although he can understand the transaction 
took place at the height of the Covid pandemic, which would have caused some issues for 
HSBC, what he cant accept is the exchange rate he was finally offered bore no relation to 
the US to sterling exchanges rates, widely available on the date of his original instructions. 
Like the investigator, and as accepted in part by Mr B, its fair to say the backdrop of the 
pandemic here meant than many businesses faced problems that resulted in inconvenience 
to its customers. So here, I am satisfied the delays Mr B may have experienced in HSBC 
contacting him during this time was unavoidable, due to the problems caused by the 
pandemic. That said, thats not the centre of Mr Bs complaint, its more that he has lost out 
on the beneficial exchange rate between the US dollar and sterling because HSBCs fraud 
department failed to process either payment, even though Mr B says he requested the 
second payment to go through. Mr B says HSBCs subsequent exchange rate offered to him 
would have cost him around £7,000 in comparison to what he had originally booked online. 
I can understand the point Mr B makes here, but its fair to say its unlikely HSBC would have 
held up the payment, if it hadnt been duplicated by Mr B and I am satisfied this duplication 
was the reason behind the fraud check carried out by them. So, I cant say the actions they 
took here were unreasonable. From the information provided to this service, including a 
telephone conversation with Mr B and HSBCs staff it is clear that Mr B refused to pay any 
cancellation fees for the duplicated payment. As a result of this HSBC took the decision not 
to process either transaction. 
Mr B says he instructed HSBC to make the second payment instruction because of a more 
favourable exchange rate, and while I can understand why Mr B would have wanted this to 
happen, I cant say he should benefit from this, without cancelling the other instruction. 
Afterall, the error here was of Mr Bs making and its reasonable to say reversing a 
transaction of this size would mean HSBC having to absorb considerable losses. I say this 
because as Mr B points out, sterling was trading at its lowest ebb in years against the US 
dollar, so it would follow to reverse Mr Bs duplicated payment would involve HSBC selling 
sterling to buy US dollars, at the worst possible time. 
As a result, I am satisfied HSBC were entitled to ask for Mr B to pay a cancellation fee for 
the duplicated payment if he wanted the other payment to go through, but as he refused it wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to cancel both instructions here. 
From the information I have seen, given the payment hasnt been processed, as Mr B 
refused to pay any cancellation fees, Mr B is in the position he found himself in prior to the 
duplicated payment instructions and it follows I cant say he has suffered any financial loss 
here. 
While Mr B and Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of 
HSBC, here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman