DRN-3072502
The complaint
Mr C and his father complain that Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited (trading as Ingenie)
is responsible for mishandling a motor insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Mr C passed his driving test and got his first car. In late February 2020, his father went onto
an aggregator website and entered details including an estimated mileage of 10,000 miles
for the following year. He went onto the Ingenie website and completed the purchase of a
policy. Mr C was the policyholder and his father was a named driver.
The policy was a telematics or black box policy. Ingenie was responsible for supplying the
box to monitor the driving of the car. Ingenie also acted as an intermediary between Mr C
and an insurance company that was responsible for dealing with claims under the policy.
After seven months, Mr C received notification in late September 2020 that he had reached
90% of the allowed mileage and that he should buy top-up miles. Mr C complained to 
Ingenie that, when he bought the policy, it hadnt told him 10,000 miles was a maximum.
From early November 2020, Endsleigh took over the business of Ingenie.
By a final response dated 12 November, Ingenie turned down the complaint. Mr C confirmed
his complaint in writing on 14 November. In summary he said he shouldnt have to pay any
more than he had paid.
On 24 November, Ingenie told Mr C he had exceeded the maximum mileage and  to avoid
cancellation  he should buy top-up miles. Mr C brought his complaint to us on 26
November. His complaint form added a new complaint that he was being forced to purchase
additional mileage at around £120.00 per 1,000 miles, plus a £25.00 administration fee.
On 30 November, Ingenie issued a seven-day notice to cancel. To keep the policy, Mr Cs
father says he paid an extra £634.13 including a £25.00 administration fee.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
Endsleigh had acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions. She said
pricing is left for the insurer to set.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C  
and to Ingenie on 31 August 2021. I summarise my findings:
Ingenie didnt treat Mr C fairly by telling him that - to avoid cancellation - he needed 
to buy extra miles.
I found it likely that this caused Mr C and his father some distress and inconvenience. 
But much of this was to do with having to pay extra. So I was minded that it was fair 
enough to direct Ingenie not to charge Mr C - and to refund what he (or his father on 
his behalf) paid - for top-up miles. 
As theyd been out of pocket since about 26 November 2020., I was minded to find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Ingenie to add interest at our usual rate.
Subject to any further information from Mr C or from Ingenie, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited 
(trading as Ingenie) to:
1. not charge Mr C for exceeding 10,000 miles; and
2. refund Mr C £634.13 or such other amount as he or his father paid for top-up miles; 
and;
3. pay simple interest on the amount it refunds at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of its 
payment to the date of its refund. If Ingenie considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr C accepted the provisional decision.
Ingenie disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
The provisional decision appears to hinge on the wording and where the annual 
mileage is recorded in the documents.
It does not believe that sufficient weight has been given, in the decision, to the 
information provided to Mr C as part of the online journey and the Box Contract and 
Policy Wording.
It has been evidenced that before purchase it is clear that;
its really important that your mileage estimate is as accurate as possible. if 
you drive more than this, youll need to buy more miles to keep your 
insurance running and avoid cancellation.
More information relating to this is provided in the Terms and Conditions, which must 
be agreed to prior to purchase.
It believes that the Maximum Annual Mileage is clearly defined:
The number of miles which your policy allows your car to be driven during 
the current period of insurance.
That this is shown in the Statement of Fact does not negate that Mr C was advised of 
the conditions and implications of exceeding the declared annual mileage.
This prominent warning in the sales process was the information upon which he decided to purchase.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen contract terms written in late 2019 by a company using the name of Ingenie. They
described two contracts. One was with Ingenie relating to the black box. The other was a
contract with an insurance company.
The insurance terms included the following:
Mileage
Your policy allows the car to be driven up to the maximum mileage which is shown
in your schedule. You are required to select the number of miles you would like
on your policy during the arrangement of your policy.
If you need to increase your maximum mileage during the policy period, you
can purchase top up miles by contacting ingenie services.
ingenie and or ingenie services will notify you when you need to purchase top
up miles. If you exceed the maximum mileage amount, and you do not purchase
top up miles, the insurer and or ingenie services reserve the right to cancel your
policy
Ive added the underlining because Ill come back to the underlined words. 
The use of bold type is indicative of a defined term. And maximum mileage was defined 
as follows:
The number of miles which your policy allows your car to be driven during the
current period of insurance. This is shown on your schedule.
Again, Ive added the underlining because Ill come back to the underlined words.
In its response to the provisional decision, Ingenie has suggested that there was a definition 
of Maximum Annual Mileage that omitted the underlined words. I find that incorrect.
The word schedule was defined as follows:
The latest schedule the insurer has issued to you. This forms part of the contract of
insurance. It gives details of the period of insurance, the car excesses or
endorsements.
There was a separate definition of statement of insurance as follows:
The form that shows the information that you give the insurer, including information
given on your behalf and verbal information you give prior to commencement of the
policy.
In February 2020, Mr Cs father (on his behalf) dealt with a different company trading as
Ingenie. It was selling the policy online. So I would expect Ingenie to have drawn Mr Cs
attention to any significant or unusual terms, including any maximum mileage.
When he completed our complaint form, Mr Cs father said he had no recollection of reading
any terms relating to mileage. More recently he has been adamant that he saw no suchinformation online.
Endsleigh showed us a screenshot as follows:
its really important that your mileage estimate is as accurate as possible. if you
drive more than this, youll need to buy more miles to keep your insurance running
and avoid cancellation.
More recently, Endsleigh has said that those words were included as an explanation of the
following information:
If you go over your mileage, youll need to top up to keep your insurance running
On balance, I find it more likely that Mr Cs father saw that information but  thinking that
10,000 miles would be enough  he forgot about it.
Ingenie or the insurer issued a statement of insurance. In its response to the provisional 
decision, Ingenie referred to this as a Statement of Fact. Thats  a reasonable description. 
But Ingenie also suggested that the maximum mileage was stated in the Statement of Fact. 
Thats not correct. The Statement of Fact asked for an estimated annual mileage of the 
vehicle and recorded 10,000 miles without referring to it as a maximum.
Ingenie or the insurer issued a schedule that didnt mention mileage at all. So - going back to
the words Ive underlined from the policy  I dont consider that there was any maximum
mileage.
I dont consider that what Ingenie had said online could change the policy terms. I dont 
consider that Ingenie had done enough to turn an estimated mileage into a maximum 
mileage. 
In any event, Ingenie didnt confirm any maximum mileage. Its box didnt display any 
maximum mileage or even a cumulative mileage.
For all these reasons I find that Ingenie didnt treat Mr C fairly by telling him that - to avoid 
cancellation - he needed to buy extra miles.
I find it likely that this caused Mr C and his father some distress and inconvenience. But I
consider that much of this was to do with having to pay extra.  
Putting things right
So I find it fair enough to direct Ingenie not to charge Mr C - and to refund what he (or his 
father on his behalf) paid - for top-up miles. As theyve been out of pocket since about 26 
November 2020., I find it fair and reasonable to direct Ingenie to add interest at our usual 
rate. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited (trading as Ingenie) to:
1. not charge Mr C for exceeding 10,000 miles; and
2. refund Mr C £634.13 or such other amount as he or his father paid for top-up miles; 
and;3. pay simple interest on the amount it refunds at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of its 
payment to the date of its refund. If Ingenie considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman