DRN-4371741
The complaint
Miss C complains about the service she received from TSB Bank plc (TSB) when she tried 
to add her daughter as an additional card holder to her credit card. 
What happened
Miss C holds a credit card account with TSB. Miss C wished to add her daughter (Miss L) 
to the account. TSB advised that Miss L needed to visit a branch with ID and proof of her 
address. Miss L says she took ID into a branch as advised but that her ID was not sufficient 
because TSB wanted a council tax bill rather than the waste bin invoice she had provided. 
Miss L was asked to return with a council tax bill. Miss L says she did as instructed but in the 
meantime TSB had used a dormant account to ID Miss L which meant that the address it 
had for her didnt match  so TSB requested Miss L once again visit a branch to update her 
address.
Miss C and Miss L are unhappy with this as following this visit they found out she couldve 
updated her address online. Miss L says she has had to take time off work every time she 
visited TSB and that Miss C has made a number of phone calls to resolve this. They want to 
be compensated for the unnecessary time spent on this and phone calls.    
TSB have confirmed that Miss L had updated her address, but she hasnt been added as a 
second card holder because she needs to contact it in order to re-request this. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs concerns and thought that both sides couldve 
done more to resolve the situation. When Miss L updated her address she couldve 
confirmed what was required of her now to be added as a second card holder. And that TSB 
couldve explained what the process was that needed to be followed once the address was 
updated to do this. So that being the case, they didnt think anything further needed to be 
done. Miss C disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Miss C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. 
Miss C and Miss L are unhappy at the service received from TSB when Miss C wished to 
add Miss L to her credit card account. They have both had their time needlessly wasted and 
want an apology and compensation for this.
Firstly, I have to be clear that I cant look at the complaint points or issues Miss L has had 
regarding being added to Miss Cs account. As our adjudicator has already explained, this is 
because I can only look into complaint points raised by the main card holder  Miss C  as 
she is the eligible complainant  not Miss L. So I will only being looking at the problems Miss 
C has experienced and to see if TSB has done anything wrong or treated Miss C unfairly. If it 
has, I would seek  if possible to put Miss C back in the position she would be in if the 
mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award compensation that I think is fair and 
reasonable.
I accept Miss C was inconvenienced when TSB needed Miss L to provide ID in a certain 
form to get her added to her account. But ultimately this is something TSB needed to meet 
its regulatory and legal obligations. So I cant say TSB did anything wrong when it requested 
Miss L provide it with certain information. And I think most would except that sometimes you 
have to spend some time dealing with such matters.
And things dont always go smoothly and our role isnt to penalise or punish a business 
when a business makes a mistake  rather it is to try and put the consumer in back in the 
position they wouldve been in if the mistakes had not have happened. 
Miss Ls address has now been updated and it is up to her now to follow the process of 
being added to Miss Cs account. So Miss C has been put back into the position shed been 
in if the mistake had not happened. So what I have to consider is whether TSB needs to do 
anything more. And I dont think it does as although I accept Miss L has been 
inconvenienced by the repeated visits to TSB branches, as explained above, she isnt 
eligible complainant here, so I cant look at compensating her personally for this.
And while I accept Miss C had to attend the first branch visit with Miss L  making changes 
to ones account was always going to be an inconvenience. And although I agree TSB 
couldve provided more information to Miss L about the next stages, Im not persuaded that 
the detriment Miss C has suffered warrants any compensation.
So on that basis I dont think TSB needs to do anything more and I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint and I do not 
require TSB Bank plc to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman