DRN-2696593
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. Mr and Mrs D paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr D, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ds PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage application offered them the choice to take PPI or turn it down. 
The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mr and Mrs D 
signed the application to confirm their choices. They later signed and submitted a direct debit 
specifically to pay for the policy  its cost wasnt part and parcel of the mortgage. Ive not 
seen any wider problems with Barclays sales process from the time, nor anything which 
shows that Mr and Mrs D were misled here. So I think its most likely that Barclays made 
Mr and Mrs D aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it  
though I can certainly understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr D was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and 
covered him for much longer. It also meant he could effectively protect any savings he had 
any use them for other things, instead of potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save 
another. I do understand Mr D felt secure in his work situation, but accidents, illnesses and 
redundancies can and do happen  even in situations that feel stable. This mortgage was a 
very significant, long-term commitment, and there was no guarantee that Mr D would have 
the same situation in the many years to come. And ultimately, if Mr and Mrs D fell behind on 
their mortgage they couldve lost their home. So the PPI could have really been useful for 
them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Mr and Mrs D about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs D chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr D wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs D in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim, and I cant see that it was overly expensive. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs D could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman