DRN-2430839
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a single trip insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a single trip travel insurance policy which was insured by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 22 January 2020 to cover a cruise that Mr and Mrs B were 
planning to take from 3 July until 10 July 2020. Mr and Mrs B paid £113.43 for the standard 
level of travel insurance cover, which also provided cover for the medical conditions declared 
by Mr B.
On 16 March 2020, Mr and Mrs B decided to cancel their cruise and contacted the broker to 
cancel the insurance policy and request a refund of the premium paid. Great Lakes said that 
as it was more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, Mr and Mrs B were not entitled 
to a refund of the premium. However, it said they could move the policy dates to cover a trip 
within 18 months of the original date of purchase. Alternatively, Great Lakes offered a pro-
rata voucher worth £77.61, valid for three years, that could be put towards future holidays 
they chose to take, or it could be transferred to family or friends to use.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with Great Lakes offer. They said they wouldnt use the 
voucher as they werent intending on travelling abroad again and wanted a cash refund. So, 
they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
found that neither the relevant regulators rules nor the policy terms and conditions entitled 
Mr and Mrs B to a premium refund. But she did think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to 
provide a pro-rata refund as it was no longer on risk for the trip. She was satisfied the 
voucher was a suitable way to provide the refund and she didnt find that the terms of the 
voucher were restrictive. So, she felt Great Lakes offer was fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators opinion. They told us the government stated 
that anyone over a certain age was not recommended to undertake cruises until such time 
as the pandemic was over  the cancellation of the holiday and the policy was therefore 
based on government advice. They reiterated that the voucher was of no use to them due to 
their decision not to travel abroad and they wanted a cash refund. Mr and Mrs B also said 
they were never told the voucher could be used by a third party.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs B held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their travel insurance policy almost two months after they had taken 
it out - so it wasnt cancelled within the first 14 days. And, based on industry rules, even if 
they had cancelled within this time period, Mr and Mrs B wouldnt be entitled to a full refund 
of the premium. This is because Great Lakes was already covering the risk of them needing 
to cancel their trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time, such as ill 
health.
The policy terms and conditions
 
The insurance policy Mr and Mrs B took out with Great Lakes includes terms and conditions 
which explain their cancellation rights under the contract. These say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or 
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any 
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or 
have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more 
favourable to them than is required by industry rules. But as Ive set out above, their policy 
was cancelled more than 14 days after they bought the policy. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B 
arent entitled to a refund under the policy terms and conditions.
The policy terms and conditions do give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptionalcircumstances. Mr and Mrs B have argued that a pandemic is an exceptional circumstance 
and therefore Great Lakes should apply its discretion. Ive thought about this point carefully. 
The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the individual policyholder 
such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical conditions  whereas the 
Covid-19 global pandemic has had a far-reaching impact, affecting a large number of Great 
Lakes policyholders. Im not persuaded that this type of situation is one which the policy 
term relating to discretion is intended to cover.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
Whilst I dont think Mr and Mrs B are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of their contract with Great Lakes, Ive considered what I think is fair and 
reasonable taking into account all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Bs planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip insurance policy  
changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms 
and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Bs contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 22 January 2020. This is because 
Mr and Mrs B werent just insured for the dates of travel. The premium charged by Great 
Lakes also covered the risk of Mr and Mrs B having to cancel their holiday for one of the 
listed reasons that the policy covered. And this was from the date they took out the cover.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear 
any risk under Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy. And Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in 
relation to the cancelled trip. Great Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the 
holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer 
going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made 
while Mr and Mrs B were travelling abroad. 
Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs B a pro-rata refund of the premium that they paid for 
their single trip travel insurance policy  calculated from the date the holiday was cancelled. 
Im therefore satisfied that Great Lakes offer is a fair and reasonable one.
How the refund should be paid
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Great Lakes will not provide a cash refund of the insurance 
premium, rather than a voucher. In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a 
pro-rata refund of their premiums by way of a voucher or a monetary refund, Ive thought 
about what would be fair and reasonable to both parties. 
It is important to note that it was Mr and Mrs Bs decision to cancel the insurance policy  
although I understand their reasons for doing so. Mr and Mrs B entered into a contract with 
Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great 
Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.
Im not persuaded that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to Mr and Mrs B. 
I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that voucher being 
reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. Great Lakes has 
confirmed that the offer is valid for 36 months and can be used either by Mr and Mrs B or 
transferred to a third party. The voucher can be used to buy a future travel insurance policy  
either annual or single trip. 
Mr and Mrs B have said they dont want a voucher as they are unlikely to travel abroad again 
due to their ages and the situation regarding Covid-19  so they will not need travel 
insurance. I understand why they may have reached that decision, especially considering 
the current circumstances - but that view may change and as the voucher is valid for three 
years it gives them time to consider that choice. In addition, Great Lakes has said that it 
offers insurance for UK based trips, which Mr and Mrs B could find useful in the future. Even 
if Mr and Mrs B decided not to use the voucher themselves, they can transfer it to someone 
else. Taking everything into account, I dont find the terms of Great Lakes voucher 
unreasonably restrictive, so Im satisfied the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. Im 
not persuaded that Great Lakes has to offer a monetary refund on this occasion.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs B have commented that they werent told about the voucher being 
transferrable to another party when it was offered to them by Great Lakes. Having looked at 
the email provided to them by Great Lakes I cant see that this point was mentioned  so it 
appears they may not have been told this at the time. It is unfortunate if this wasnt initially 
conveyed to them, however, as Mr and Mrs B have said this information wouldnt have 
altered their decision not to accept the voucher, this doesnt make a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
The calculation of the voucher
Mr and Mrs B dont disagree with the monetary value of the voucher offered. But for 
completeness, Ive considered whether the way Great Lakes has calculated this refund is fair 
and reasonable.
Great Lakes has told us it doesnt break the premium for this policy down based on the cover 
it provides pre-travel (if the trip has to be cancelled) and post-departure cover. Instead, it 
says the premium charged is split equally across the whole period of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide how it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account 
factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims 
arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. Based on 
the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the incidence 
of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied that Great 
Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances.
The voucher value of £77.61 has been calculated based on the unused period of the 
standard travel insurance cover. The premium Mr and Mrs B paid for this policy was for a 
period of approximately 171 days from 22 January 2020 to the 10 July 2020. The value of 
the voucher which Great Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs B is equivalent to 117 unused 
days of cover from 16 March 2020 until the planned end date of the trip on 10 July 2020. 
This is reflective of the fact that Great Lakes wouldnt have been covering any further risk 
under the policy once the holiday was cancelled.Overall, based on everything Ive seen and been told, Im persuaded that Great Lakes offer 
of settlement, by way of a voucher, is fair and reasonable. So, I dont find that Great Lakes 
has to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman