DRN-2694577
The complaint
Mr J complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited will not honour the original terms of 
his pension policy, following a court order. 
What happened
Mr J was a long-standing with-profits pension policy holder of Company E.
 
In late 2019, the High Court (the Court) approved a scheme of arrangement  which had the 
effect of converting Mr Js policy with Company E from a with-profits policy with a guarantee 
of minimum performance (investment guarantee), to a unit linked policy which depended on 
market performance. His policy was given an uplift in value prior to the transfer to take 
account of a distribution of the assets of the with-profits fund of Company E, but this wasnt 
directly linked to the value of his investment guarantee.
The Court also approved a transfer of the vast majority of Company E pension policies to 
Utmost.
Mr J complained to our service. In early 2020, in accordance with the Court order, legal 
responsibility for Mr Js policy was transferred to Utmost.  As Utmost took on responsibility 
for all liabilities in relation to the policy after the transfer, I will mainly refer to Utmost from 
now on.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it. He said that it was 
reasonable for Utmost to follow the Court ruling. 
Mr J didnt agree. He also wanted our service to compel the provision of information about 
the costs of the court proceedings, the scheme, and the expenses of the various 
participants. 
Our investigator didnt change his view. He thought the process was fair, even if Mr J didnt 
vote for it. He was unable to say Mr J had been treated unfairly.
 
The complaint then came to me for decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this will disappoint Mr J, but having done so, Im not going to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why shortly. But before I do so it may be helpful if I say that I recognise 
Mr Js strength of feeling  he believes hes lost out on the value of his pension and been 
treated unfairly. Ive read and carefully considered all of the comments and submissions Mr J 
has sent us, but I havent responded to every point raised. That is because I dont need to in 
order to reach an independent, fair, and reasonable decision. I mean no discourtesy by this 
approach.
Before I deal with Mr Js complaint, I should add that Im satisfied that I have the power to 
consider it. After our investigator issued his view, Utmost indicated that it thought the 
complaint was outside our jurisdiction, because it has been the subject of court proceedings. 
I did not agree. This is because while our service has the power to dismiss a complaint 
where it has been the subject of court proceedings on the merits, we still have the power to 
determine the complaint unless we dismiss it. I declined to exercise any power I may have to 
dismiss the complaint because I didnt think it appropriate to do so given the length of time 
the complaint has been with our service. Mr J and Utmost have been informed of this. 
The essence of Mr Js complaint is that the scheme of arrangement approved by the Court 
which, among other things, removed his investment guarantee, wasnt fair to him. He thinks 
that the uplift in value that he obtained upon the transfer of his policy doesnt fairly 
compensate him, and he is at risk of financial detriment. He proposes a range of possible 
remedies, including honouring the investment guarantee, and increasing the amount of uplift. 
He also wants compensation for his costs of attending court.
  
Utmost are now responsible for Mr Js policy, as Ive said previously. It is legally bound to 
deal with Mr Js pension in accordance with the court order sanctioning the scheme of 
arrangement. Mr J himself acknowledges that this is legal, but he does not think it is fair. He 
wants our service to use its powers to determine what is fair and reasonable to, in effect, 
compel Utmost to treat him differently than the court order requires it do. 
In determining what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, Im required, 
among other things, to have regard to relevant law. If I am to depart from the law, as Mr J 
wants me to do, I must give detailed reasons. But having given all the circumstances of the 
case careful consideration, Im afraid Im not prepared to depart from the law. Ill explain 
why.
 
Like our investigator, I cant say that the process followed to approve the scheme of 
arrangement and transfer the policies was unfair. Prior to the Court approving the scheme 
and the transfer, all eligible members of Company E were given an opportunity to vote on 
the scheme and the vast majority of those voting approved it and the Financial Conduct 
Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority  had no objection to the transfer.
I appreciate that Mr J considers that the scheme wasnt fair, and he may be worse off. Hes 
given our service a copy of his submissions to the Court. I understand that Mr J says that the 
court process was unfair.  However I note that Mr J was heard by the Court and is referred to 
in its judgment, so I cant say his interests werent considered.  
Taking all these facts and circumstances into account, Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable of me to depart from the law in this case, so Im not going to. This means that I 
dont uphold Mr Js complaint. I understand Mr J will be disappointed, and Im sorry for that. 
In his response to our investigators view, Mr J indicated that as policies subject to German 
law were not being changed and therefore Company E  had to carry on processing those 
policies it would not have made much difference administratively to have given UK policy 
holders the choice to keep their policies the same if they wanted to. Although I dont need to 
decide this point in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision, I note that the proposal 
document sent to policy holders indicate that it would not have been possible for Company E 
to reach an agreement with Utmost if an opt-out had been part of the proposal. Ive no 
reason to doubt this. Finally, I dont have the power to compel Utmost or Company E to provide the information to 
Mr J that he wants concerning the costs of the scheme, the court hearing and the expenses 
provided. I understand he has already requested the information directly, so it is a matter for 
him if there are any further avenues to pursue the provision of the information. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman