DRN-2974049
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse her the cost of a payment that she 
made to an online vendor that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
Miss L purchased an item online for £550 using her Lloyds debit card. Soon after making the 
payment, Miss L felt that she might have fallen victim to a scam, so she contacted Lloyds 
and asked for the payment to be stopped. Lloyds explained that they were unable to stop a 
pending debit card payment and that they felt that this was a goods not received situation, 
the protocol for which was that Miss L should wait to see if the purchased item was delivered 
to her, and to contact Lloyds again in a week if not.
The item wasnt delivered to Miss L, and so Miss L contacted Lloyds again. At this time, 
Lloyds acknowledged that this may be a case where a chargeback request could be initiated 
to try to recover the money, but advised Miss L that she needed to wait until 15 days had 
passed from the date of the transaction to raise the chargeback claim and to call back then if 
the item still hadnt been received.
However, when Miss L did call Lloyds back after the 15 days had passed and discussed the 
matter in more detail, she was told by Lloyds that the transaction wasnt eligible for a 
chargeback claim and that nothing further could be done. Miss L wasnt happy about that, so 
she raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Miss Ls complaint, but they noted that Miss L had made the payment using 
her Lloyds debit card via a third-party electronic services provider and had listed the 
payment as being for friends and family. Lloyds further noted that payments such as this 
which were listed as being for friends and family werent eligible payments under the 
chargeback scheme rules, and so they didnt uphold this aspect of Miss Ls complaint.
However, Lloyds did acknowledge that theyd taken longer to respond to Miss L than they 
would have liked, and they confirmed that theyd already made a payment to Miss L of £35 
as compensation for this and offered an additional £50 payment to Miss L to further 
compensate her for any inconvenience incurred.
Miss L wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also noted that because Miss L 
had refenced the payment as being for friends and family it meant that the transaction wasnt 
eligible for a chargeback claim. So, they also didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Miss L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L has questioned whether Lloyds, in not reimbursing her as she would like, are 
adhering to a voluntary code of practice that theyve signed up to regarding Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams. 
I can appreciate Miss Ls concerns here, but I can confirm that push payments refer to 
payments such as CHAPS payments or Faster Payment, where the payment is pushed 
from the payers bank account to the recipients bank account. 
Debit card transactions, such as the transaction under consideration in this instance, arent 
push payments, but rather are pull payments, because the payment is pulled by the 
recipient  who initialises the transaction  from the payers account. As such, the debit card 
transaction under consideration in this complaint doesnt fall under the APP code of practice 
that Miss L refers to, which means that this code of practice isnt relevant in this instance. 
This is also the reason why Lloyds correctly informed Miss L that they cant stop a pending 
debit card transaction  because the transaction is initiated and controlled by the recipient 
bank, who pull the transaction from the payers bank account.
Miss L is also unhappy that Lloyds wouldnt raise a chargeback claim on her behalf. Id like 
to clarify what a chargeback claim is. Its a process by which some disputes are resolved 
between the card issuer, in this case Lloyds, and merchants, under the relevant card 
scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  whose symbol is on the card. The card provider 
has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and this 
agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. The rules are quite strict, 
and Lloyds doesn't have the power to change them. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Lloyds werent required to ask the card provider for the 
transaction to be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good 
practice for them to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
But in this instance Lloyds didnt think that the chargeback claim was likely to succeed, and 
the reason they thought this was because transactions made using the third-party electronic 
services provider and referenced as being for friends and family  as this transaction was  
arent eligible transactions for a chargeback claim under the chargeback rules. 
Miss L is also unhappy that the ineligibility of the transaction wasnt explained to her sooner. 
I can appreciate Miss Ls frustration here but given the nature of what happened I do feel 
that it was prudent of Lloyds to have asked Miss L to wait to see whether the item was 
received before considering that something untoward might have occurred. 
Additionally, it was only when the required time period had elapsed for a chargeback claim to 
be considered that a more detailed discussion took place as to the nature of the transaction, 
and it was only at that time that Miss L disclosed to Lloyds that the transaction had been 
referenced as being for friends and family  which made the transaction ineligible under the 
chargeback claim rules. 
All of which means that its very difficult for me to conclude that Lloyds have acted unfairly 
towards Miss L here by declining to raise a chargeback claim on her behalf. And I say this 
because, ultimately, the transaction that Miss L made isnt eligible for such a claim under the 
chargeback scheme rules.Finally, Lloyds did acknowledge that the length of time theyd taken to respond to Miss L had 
been longer than they would have liked, and they made a payment of £35 to Miss L and 
offered an additional payment of £50 to Miss L as compensation for this. This feels fair to 
me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the 
circumstances. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss L was wanting here, but if follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Lloyds to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Miss L will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman