DRN-3412255
The complaint
This complaint is about a flexible mortgage Mr and Mrs L hold with The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS). The essence of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs L felt compelled to 
draw a lump sum from Mrs Ls pension fund as a result of correspondence RBS issued in 
2014 saying they were behind schedule on repaying the debt facility.
 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs L and RBS. Im also 
aware that the investigator has issued detailed responses to the complaint, copies of which 
have been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs L being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, 
with the figures rounded, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The mortgage had a flexible facility of around £105,000 and was due to be repaid in 2020. In 
2014, RBS told Mr and Mrs L they were behind with their repayment schedule, and that it 
was going to begin reducing the facility limit in stages. A number of small reductions were 
made to the facility taking it down to around £85,000 in 2015. At that time, Mr and Mrs L 
asked RBS not to reduce the limit any further, and said they planned to use £25,000 from 
Mrs Ls pension fund to reduce the debt.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs L drew 25% of Mrs Ls pension fund value (around £39,000) and paid it 
into the account. They also paid the proceeds from the sale assets in a leisure facility into 
the account. In June 2019, with around one year left before the debt had to be repaid in full, 
Mr and Mrs L asked RBS to extend the term for repayment of the residual debt. RBS agreed 
to extend the term to 2025.
In September 2019, RBS undertook a remediation programme to address shortcomings in 
the way it had dealt with flexible mortgages during the period in which the above events 
occurred. It invited affected borrowers to show if they had suffered consequential losses. 
Mr and Mrs L complained that theyd been panicked into taking the money out of Mrs Ls 
pension fund. They said that if RBS had offered them a term extension in 2014, they 
wouldnt have needed to do that, and as a result, Mrs L was now losing £100 of month in 
reduced pension income.
RBS largely rejected the complaint, albeit it paid Mr and Mrs £400 compensation for the 
distress caused by the events of 2014/ 2015. Our investigator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld, not least because of the three year gap between Mr and Mrs L telling RBS 
of their plans and actually carrying them out. 
Mr and Mrs L asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
The starting point here is the efforts RBS made in 2014 to ensure Mr and Mrs L would be 
able to repay the debt by 2020. I take Mr and Mrs Ls point when they say they felt panicked 
by this, but in and of itself, this was a well-intentioned and responsible course of action for 
RBS to take. The real nub of the complaint, however, is that Mr and Mrs L are aggrieved 
RBS didnt suggest or offer them the option of a term extension until 2019, after Mrs T had 
drawn on her pension fund. 
However, whilst I appreciate how strongly they feel, a term extension is a step that comes 
with significant additional costs for borrowers, in the form of all the additional interest the 
debt accrues over the longer repayment period. It is very much a last resort measure, and 
not one that Id expect a responsible lender to be promoting to borrowers who already have 
a plan in place. Mr and Mrs L did have a plan in place; they communicated that plan to RBS 
in 2015, and then executed it in 2018. 
Notwithstanding the steps Mr and Mrs L took in 2018, they were still faced with a substantial 
debt in 2019, and only one year left in which to repay it. In that situation, I consider it was 
appropriate for a term extension to be considered; but for the reasons set out earlier, I dont 
find RBS treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly by not offering it earlier.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman