DRN-3550861
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined his claim against his medical 
insurance policy. Reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr H has membership of a group, private medical insurance policy 
via his employer. In April 2021, Mr H made a claim in relation to an appointment with an 
orthopaedic hand specialist. Aviva dealt with that claim. Mr H received a diagnosis of 
Dupuytrens disease, which causes connective tissue thickening in the palm of the hand, 
leading to difficulty extending the fingers. 
In May 2021, Mr H asked Aviva to cover radiotherapy treatment for his Dupuytrens 
disease. Aviva declined his claim. It said that radiotherapy for Dupuytrens disease is 
experimental and not covered under the policy. Mr H made submissions to Aviva and 
asked his treating consultant to complete Avivas form relating to requests for new 
treatments or procedures. Aviva referred the matter to its medical adviser and 
maintained its position. Mr H didnt think that was fair and pursued his complaint. 
Mr H says that Aviva hasnt taken his circumstances into account. He hoped that Aviva 
would take a pragmatic view, as radiotherapy now is less expensive and more beneficial 
than surgery in several years. Mr H says that a number of NHS trusts provide 
radiotherapy for Dupuytrens disease, despite the current guidance by                          
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). He says that Aviva asked 
his doctor for certain information when it knew the treatment wouldnt be covered. He 
says that Aviva has previously covered this treatment and should do so again. 
Since making his complaint, Mr H paid for private radiotherapy treatment for one hand 
and had radiotherapy treatment in the NHS on the other hand. He said that hes 
responded positively to radiotherapy treatment.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Aviva had 
treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. The investigator said Mr Hs 
policy doesnt cover experimental treatment unless it meets certain criteria, which wasnt 
met here. She didnt think that Aviva was wrong to ask for information in order to 
consider Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He responded at some length, which I wont set 
out here in full. In summary, Mr H said:
He disputes that radiotherapy for Dupuytrens disease is an experimental 
treatment. 
Avivas requirements are not clinically or statistically practical for Dupuytrens 
disease as the progression of the disease is random. He falls into a group which 
clinical reports show has high rates of success for radiotherapy treatment. 
Avivas requirements are unfair for this particular medical condition. 
His treating doctors supporting information was compromised. In relation to Dr S, 
Aviva had previously told him not to submit request for radiotherapy for 
Dupuytrens disease. And Dr S didnt trust Aviva with his commercially sensitive 
clinical data. Dr G offered Aviva supporting evidence and data via a trip to his 
premises, but Aviva didnt take that up. Aviva has suppressed and not 
appropriately reviewed supporting information in his case.
Mr H asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
Exclusions from cover
[]
11.We do not cover experimental treatment, unless it meets the criteria set out below.
We only pay for treatment that is:
approved by European Medicines Agency (EMA) and Medicines & 
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and is used within the 
terms of its licence,
or
part of a nationally approved clinical guideline (The National Institute for Health 
and Care Excellence or Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network),
or
supported by best quality evidence (prospective randomised controlled trials 
that have been published in peer reviewed journals, independent of conflicts of 
interest and applicable to your clinical condition), and offered by a specialist 
with documented evidence of positive clinical and patient reported outcomes 
within a hospital that is equipped with staff, equipment and processes to 
provide it.
If your treatment meets these requirements, we will not exclude treatment on the 
basis that it is experimental. Before we can decide if your proposed treatment is 
eligible, we must receive all the clinical details we need from your specialist, 
including a completed Treatment Request Form. We must confirm your cover in 
writing before any treatment begins.  
BUT:
Even if we consider your treatment to be experimental because it does not satisfy the 
requirements listed above, we will still pay for the lowest cost of either:
the experimental treatment, or
the equivalent established treatment usually provided for your condition, if 
this is available.Please note: No payment will be made if there is no established treatment available for 
your condition (for which the experimental treatment is being proposed). If you 
undergo experimental treatment that is not successful, we will not pay towards further 
treatment of your condition or for any other condition that you develop as a result of 
undergoing experimental treatment.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Hs  
complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated him unfairly. I say that because: 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions 
of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under 
one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is covered in principle 
but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy, the onus shifts to the 
insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Mr Hs policy covers eligible treatment but excludes experimental treatment. Ive set out 
the exclusion above. Essentially, the policy excludes experimental treatment unless its 
approved by EMA and MHRA and used within the terms of its licence or part of NICE 
guidance or supported by evidence from independent, peer reviewed, prospective, 
randomised, controlled trials, and offered in particular circumstances.  
The central question here is whether Aviva treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably in 
relying on the exclusion Ive set out above. I dont think it did. Aviva referred the matter 
to its medical adviser, which is what wed expect it to do in cases like this one. Based 
on what Ive seen,  Aviva looked carefully at the available information and concluded 
that radiotherapy for Dupuytrens disease isnt part of a nationally approved clinical 
guideline and isnt supported by independent, peer reviewed, prospective, 
randomised, controlled trials. I think it was entitled to come to that view.
I wont repeat what Avivas medical director said here at any length, but in his letter to 
Mr H of 23 February 2022, Aviva explained that the information referred by Dr G was a 
cohort study, not a peer reviewed, prospective, randomised, controlled trial. Aviva also 
looked at a review published by the Royal College of Radiologists and explained why it 
didnt meet its criteria. It also looked at NICEs recommendations which said that 
current evidence is inadequate so radiotherapy for Dupuytrens disease should only be 
used with special arrangements for clinical governance, consent, and audit research. 
Mr H says that radiotherapy for Dupuytrens disease isnt an experimental treatment 
as its been used for decades, has a high success rate, is found to be safe by NICE, 
recommended by the Royal College of Radiologists and his treating doctors and 
provided by the NHS. But it remains the case that its an experimental treatment under 
the terms of Mr Hs policy, as the criteria Aviva has set hasnt been satisfied in this 
case. 
I appreciate Mr Hs point that there are particular difficulties in conducting prospective, 
randomised, controlled trials for Dupuytrens disease because of its nature and 
progression. But I dont think that means that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
relying on the exclusion. I think that Aviva is entitled to say that it wont pay for experimental treatment unless certain conditions are met, which havent been met 
here. 
I note what Mr H says about the supporting information provided by his treating 
doctors. It appears that Dr S submitted the additional form entitled Request for new 
treatments/procedures to Aviva on Mr Hs insistence but was aware that Aviva was 
likely to decline treatment. I assume thats because of his previous dealings with Aviva 
on this issue. I dont think that meant that Aviva didnt consider the evidence in Mr Hs 
case. And I dont think that Aviva was at fault in inviting Mr H to provide further 
information in this way. Mr H says that Dr S didnt want to share his commercially 
sensitive clinical data with Aviva. Aviva can only consider information thats made 
available, either directly or publicly. I dont think Aviva is at fault for failing to take into 
account any information not provided by Dr S. And I think that Aviva considered what 
Dr G said and wasnt at fault in declining an invitation to attend his premises.
Aviva considered the claim Mr H made against the terms and conditions of the policy. I 
dont think its obliged to consider a claim Mr H may make in the future and weight the 
costs and benefits of this treatment now or other treatment later, not least because, as 
Mr H says, the nature and progression of Dupuytrens disease is uncertain. 
Considering everything, I think that Aviva didnt treat Mr H unfairly or unreasonably in 
relying on the exclusion to which its referred and in declining cover in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman