DRN-2924616
The complaint
Mr S complains that the lump sum he received, when he cashed in a small personal pension 
pot he held with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, was lower than the amount set out in the 
illustration it had previously sent to him.
In order to put matters right, Mr S wants Aviva to pay him the difference between the amount 
in the illustration and the amount he actually received.
What happened
Mr S held a personal pension plan with Aviva. The pension was invested in a with profits 
fund. I understand that in August 2020, Mr S contacted Aviva to enquire about taking his 
benefits from this plan. 
Aviva sent Mr S a retirement pack. This set out that the estimated value of Mr Ss pension 
pot was £9,986. The pack explained that as the pension pot was valued at under £10,000, 
Mr S was eligible to take the whole pot as a lump sum under the small lump sum rules.
Mr S contacted Aviva to discuss how much tax would be deducted from the value of his 
pension pot. Aviva explained that, as the estimated value of Mr Ss pension pot was so close 
to the maximum value permitted under the small lump sum rules, there was a risk that if the 
value of the plan increased Mr S would have to pay a higher tax charge. At the end of the 
call Aviva indicated that it would contact Mr S before it encashed his pension pot if the value 
had changed and he was likely to incur a higher tax charge.
Mr S then returned the application form to take his pension as a lump sum under the small 
lump sum rules. Shortly afterwards, on 2 November 2020, Aviva issued a confirmation of 
payment. This gave a fund value of £9,446.
Mr S asked Aviva why the value was less than the amount in the illustration he had received 
in August 2020. Mr S was not satisfied with Avivas explanation and complained.
Aviva did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It explained that Mr S was invested in a with profits 
fund. It said that in late August 2020, a review of the bonus rate the with profits fund Mr S 
was invested in had been carried out. This was after the illustration Mr S had received had 
been issued. At the review the bonus rate had been reduced and as a result the value of 
Mr Ss fund had reduced. It noted that the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy set out that 
the bonus rate attached to the with profits fund would be reviewed from time to time.
Mr S was not satisfied with Avivas response and referred the matter to this service.
Having considered Mr Ss complaint our investigator said he didnt think Aviva had acted 
incorrectly. He noted that in the illustration Aviva sent to Mr S in August 2020, it explained 
that the fund value quoted was an estimate and it said:
The figures shown below are estimates only and are not guaranteed.
He also reiterated Avivas explanation about the bonus rate review that had been carried out 
after the August 2020 illustration had been sent to Mr S. He explained that the terms and 
conditions allowed Aviva to review the bonus rates attached to its with profits funds and he 
noted that bonus rates could be reduced. As Aviva had made clear that the illustration it had 
provided in August 2020 was not guaranteed he said he didnt think it had treated Mr S 
unfairly.
Mr S was not satisfied with our investigators view and referred to a telephone conversation 
he had with Aviva before he decided to go ahead and encash his pension pot. Mr S said that 
if he had been made aware that the value of his pension pot had been reduced, he wouldnt 
have encashed it.
Another investigator obtained a recording of the call Mr S had referred to and re-considered 
Mr Ss complaint in light of this additional information. Having done so, he said he remained 
of the view that Aviva had made it adequately clear that the illustration it provided in August 
2020 wasnt guaranteed. 
He noted that the conversation Mr S had referred to focused on the amount of tax that would 
be deducted if Mr S went ahead and encashed his pension pot. He accepted that there was 
a passing reference to the value of the pension pot at the end of the call, but he said he felt 
the form Mr S had completed to take his pension pot as a lump sum made clear that the 
illustration amount was not guaranteed. In view of this, and having listened to Mr Ss 
conversation with Aviva, he said he didnt think it had told Mr S that the amount in the 
illustration was guaranteed.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He noted that the call recording included part of a 
discussion between two Aviva employees who noted that as the illustration he had received 
had been generated less than three months earlier it didnt need to be re-generated. 
He also said that when he had asked about the fund value in the call Aviva had told him that 
it would contact him if the amount had changed before it encashed his pension pot. But it 
had failed to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ss position but, like our investigator, I dont think there is anything 
that shows or suggests Aviva told Mr S that the £9,986 fund value given in the illustration 
was guaranteed. Ill explain why.
The retirement pack Aviva sent to Mr S in August 2020 clearly set out that the fund value 
given was not guaranteed. In particular, the pack contained the following wording:
The figures shown below are estimates only and are not guaranteed.
Illustration
Current fund value £9,986.00
Important
The figures shown are based on a retirement date of 24 August 2020. They are not 
guaranteed and could change without notice.In view of this I am satisfied that it was made adequately clear that the Current fund value 
of £9,986 was not guaranteed.
Having listened to the call recording Mr S has referred to, it appears Mr S phoned Aviva to 
discuss the tax calculation in the illustration he had received. During the call Aviva explained 
that a larger tax deduction would be made if the value of Mr Ss pension pot exceeded the 
£10,000 small lump sum limit. At the very end of the call Mr S said:
6, 8 weeks which I assume it hasnt altered in that time, so Ill send the full lump sum 
form.
Aviva then said; Yeah and well be in contact if its changed at all with that one, yeah.
When considering this final exchange in the conversation Mr S had with Aviva, I must take 
into account that Mr S and Aviva had been discussing the tax implications if the value of his 
pension pot exceeded £10,000 and he took the pension pot as a lump sum. 
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, it would have been helpful if Aviva had also 
explained that the value of Mr Ss pension pot might have reduced in value since he had 
received the valuation in August 2020. But as the whole conversation had been about the 
tax that would be deducted and how it would increase if the value of Mr Ss pension pot was 
over £10,000 I think, in the context of the conversation, the representative was referring to 
what would happen if the value of the pension pot exceeded £10,000 and Mr S was not 
eligible to take his pension pot as a lump sum under the small lump sum rules.
I must also take into account that the form Mr S completed, after his conversation with Aviva, 
instructing it to encash his pension pot said:
Small lump sum
We may be able to pay you a 'small lump sum if your fund at retirement is £10,000 or less 
You can only take a small lump sum three times under this rule The figures shown below 
are estimates only and are not guaranteed
Illustration
Your estimated small lump sum payment (after we have taken off the tax)
The tax we have estimated we must take
£8,488 20 (net amount)
£1,497 80 (tax amount)
So even if Mr S thought that the value given in the illustration was guaranteed, I think the 
payment form he completed made clear that the value of his pension pot was estimated and 
was not guaranteed.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr S was hoping for, but having very carefully 
considered all the information available I cant reasonably require Aviva to pay Mr S the 
difference between the estimated value and the amount his pension pot was actually worth 
(less tax) when he cashed it in.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman