DRN-1316454
 
The complaint
 Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Between February and May 2019 Sunny provided Mr M with 2 instalment loans. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
 
Loan 
Date
Taken 
Date
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
Combined 
Repayment
104/02/2019 outstanding 56 weekly £1,000.00 £165.80*
219/05/2019 01/11/2019 24 weekly £150.00 £219.20*
*this is the highest total repayment over the course of a month including where loans overlap
Mr M feels that Sunny didnt do proper checks and Sunny gave him unaffordable loans 
causing his debt to spiral out of control. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He felt that when Mr M first applied to borrow from 
Sunny proportionate checks would most likely have shown that he was having problems 
managing his money and he already had multiple other existing short term loans 
outstanding. So our adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have provided any loans to Mr M and 
he gave detailed directions setting out what he thought Sunny should do to put things right 
for Mr M.  
Sunny didnt agree with everything our adjudicator said but after reviewing our adjudicators 
assessment it said it wanted to put forward a different settlement proposal. Sunny said it was 
willing to write off the outstanding balance for Mr Ms first loan so that he would owe Sunny 
nothing further.
We passed this offer on to Mr M but it falls short of what our adjudicator recommended and 
Mr M has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Ms credit file. 
Sunny could also see that Mr M was asking to borrow a large loan and that hed be  paying it 
back over a relatively long period  more than a year. I think Sunny should have taken steps to verify what Mr M was saying about his financial 
circumstances as the information it had gathered so far appeared at odds with his borrowing 
request. Sunny hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a 
proportionate check before agreeing to lend to him. 
Mr M has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Sunny was 
likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should have done this. 
But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable picture of Mr Ms 
finances at the time. And had Sunny looked in depth at Mr Ms finances it would likely have 
seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it would have learnt 
that Mr M already had a well established record of borrowing from short term lenders and he 
had multiple other existing short term loans outstanding when he took out loan 1. He was 
also very substantially overdrawn at the bank and had been for some time.
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to think that it was likely Mr M would be 
able sustainably to repay loan 1  or any further lending. So it shouldnt have provided this 
loan or loan 2. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
Im upholding the complaint about loans 1 and 2 and Sunny should put things right.
If Sunny has sold outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have outlined 
below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr M.
 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ms credit file for loans 1 and 2.
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman