DRN-3459639
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that PrePay Technologies Limited wont refund the money 
it lost when it was the victim of a scam.
What happened
G received a phone call from someone claiming to be from a telecommunications company, 
who said that Gs router had been hacked and was being used by other people. The caller 
got G to go to a website to run some checks and then asked it to help them catch the 
hackers by making some payments out of its account. Unfortunately, we now know the caller 
was a scammer.
G made two payments out of its account, for £11,000 and then £15,000, as instructed by the 
scammer and was told it would then receive information from the telecommunications 
company. But G became suspicious when this information didnt come, so it searched online 
and discovered it had been the victim of a scam. G then reported the scam to PrePay and 
asked that the payments be refunded.
PrePay investigated but said it thought G had authorised the payments and so didnt agree 
to refund them. It did recover £2,567.06 from the accounts the payments were sent to 
though, and so credited this to Gs account. G wasnt satisfied with PrePays response, so 
referred its complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They though PrePay had acted reasonably 
in allowing the payments to be made and wasnt expected to do more to check where the 
payments were going or what they were for. They also thought PrePay had done all it could 
to try to recover the payments. So they didnt think PrePay should have to refund the money 
G lost. G disagreed with our investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require PrePay to refund the money G lost. Ill 
explain why below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that G authorised the payments. It accepts it made the payments out 
of the account. So while I recognise that it has been the victim of a scam and didnt intend 
for the money to go to a scammer, the starting position in law is that PrePay was obliged to 
follow Gs instructions and process the payments. So G isnt automatically entitled to a 
refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So Ive also thought about whether PrePay did enough to 
try to keep Gs account safe.
From looking at the account statements, I accept it wasnt common for G to make payments 
of this amount. But the amount isnt so high that I would expect PrePay to question it, 
particularly as this activity was on a limited companys account. Its not uncommon for limited 
companies to make large payments, and to new payees. There also wasnt anything else 
about the payments that I think should have made them stand out, such as being 
international payments. And so, even though they may not have been typical payments for 
G, Im satisfied PrePay didnt need to intervene or ask any further questions before 
processing the payments.
Ive also considered whether PrePay could have done more to recover Gs funds once it was 
made aware of the scam. PrePays records show it tried to recover the funds from the 
accounts the payments were sent to, and was able to recover £2,567.06, but the rest of the 
funds had already been moved on. From these records, I think PrePay acted within a 
reasonable amount of time and so I dont think it could have done more to recover Gs funds.
I sympathise with the position G has found itself in. But, overall, I dont think PrePay acted 
unreasonably in letting the payments it made go through, and I dont think it would be fair to 
ask PrePay to refund the money G lost.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman