DRN-2873693
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Highway Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim made 
against him on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
A third-party driver made a claim against Mr M, holding him responsible for an incident in 
which their cars collided.
Mr M feels the third-party driver caused the incident which he says took place on a 
dangerous section of the road where there was poor visibility. He says as he approached, 
the third party came around the bend at speed, and encroached into his lane, causing the 
collision. 
The third-party insurers provided a statement from an independent witness who said Mr M 
overshot the bend and hit the rear offside of the third-partys car. As a result of this, Highway 
accepted liability for the incident because they felt the independent witness statement would 
likely sway a courts decision. But Mr M didnt agree, he didnt think the witness statement 
was accurate.
Mr M would like the accident recorded as non-fault and his no claims discount reinstated. He 
would also like Highway to petition the local authorities to make changes to the section of the 
road in order to make it safer.
Highway thought they could have done more to investigate and question the witness 
statement before accepting liability. As such, they obtained advice from solicitors, who 
agreed that there may be some doubts about the credibility of the witness statement. But 
they also said the best possible outcome of the claim would be 50/50 liability. Highway 
offered Mr M £150 compensation for the lack of investigation and for delays to his case.
Our investigator concluded Highways decision and offer of compensation was fair and 
agreed that they should have progressed the claim quicker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator has reached.
our role
In these types of complaints, our role isnt to say who is responsible for the accident in 
question, thats something for the courts to decide. Rather, its to decide whether Highways 
investigation was fair, and if the outcome they reached was reasonable.
Highways investigation of the claim
Highway accepts they could have done more to investigate before accepting liability and 
settling the claim. When things go wrong, we expect Highway to put it right and ensure Mr M 
isnt worse off as a result. So, Ive thought about what is likely to have happened had they 
investigated the claim properly at the time, and Im not convinced Mr M would have been in a 
better position than the one he is in now, Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms policy contains a term found in most car insurance policies. It says Highway may 
take over, defend or settle any claim in your name. This means Highway can handle a 
claim however they see fit. Even though it might mean they make a decision Mr M doesnt 
agree with, they are still allowed to do so.
The third partys insurer obtained a statement from an independent witness whose testimony 
supported what their driver said happened. The solicitors Highway later consulted said there 
were some doubts about the reliability of the statement, but they felt it would be difficult to 
prove without any counter evidence.  
Mr M and the third-party driver both think the other is responsible for the incident. The 
solicitors felt the damage to both cars was in keeping with what Mr M said happened as well 
as what the third-party claimed. They didnt recommend taking legal action and felt that even 
if they successfully raised doubts about the credibility of the witness statement, the best 
possible outcome of this claim would have been for Highway to accept joint responsibility for 
the incident. 
Court proceedings can be costly, and its not unusual for insurers to settle the claim if they 
think theres little chance they would be able to successfully defend it in court. I dont find it 
unreasonable for Highway to rely on the advice of their solicitors who are the legal experts 
and have experience of how courts view cases like this. Highway had accepted liability for 
the accident. But following the solicitors advice, they recorded a split liability for the incident, 
even though they covered all the costs involved in the claim, and I find that reasonable.
 
Where split liability is accepted, Highway would still be responsible for a share of the costs 
involved in the claim. Usually, a fault claim is recorded if an insurer pays out on a claim and 
doesnt recover all their costs, even if they only paid a portion of the claim. And it normally 
follows that the policyholder would lose part or all their unprotected no claims bonus. As 
such, Im satisfied Highway acted fairly and dont need to reinstate Mr Ms no claims bonus.
 
road safety
I accept what Mr M has said regarding the dangerous nature of the road where the incident 
happened and I understand he would like Highway to petition the local authorities to make 
changes, but they arent required to. I know Mr M feels strongly about this, but his 
suggestions are best raised directly with the local council who are responsible for that 
section of the road.
fair and reasonable
As I mentioned earlier, my role isnt to say who was responsible for the incident, but its to 
consider if Highway reached a fair and reasonable decision. Ive thought about what 
Highway have said, and Im satisfied their decision to record and settle the claim as they did 
was reasonable. Highway also settled without prejudice. This gives Mr M the opportunity to 
seek legal advice regarding the claim and undertake legal action of his own if he so wishes, 
and I find thats fair.Highway acknowledge they could have investigated the claim better and paid Mr M £150 for 
this and for delays in replying to his complaint. I believe thats fair compensation in all the 
circumstances. I appreciate how distressing this process has been for Mr M and I know this 
will be disappointing to him, but Im satisfied Highway have done enough to put things right 
and I wont tell them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman