DRN-2046531
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the car provided to her by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
trading as Skoda Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality and shed now like to reject 
it.
What happened
On 27 August Mrs B entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a new car.  On 
collection on 1 September Mrs B noticed that the boot sensor catch only worked 
intermittently and that there were no drawers behind the front seats. This had been part of 
the advertised specification for this car but Mrs B was told the drawers werent available on 
this model as it had electric front seats and the information about this had been incorrect.
A week after collection Mrs B contacted the dealership about the boot sensor. She was sent 
a video explaining how it worked but Mrs B says this didnt solve the problem and it 
continued to only work on and off. A week after that Mrs B took the car back to garage to 
complain about the missing drawers and the faulty boot sensor and on 18 September, Mrs B 
contacted VWFS to reject the car because of these issues.
In the meantime Mrs B repaid the finance in full on 3 September. Mrs B says that she settled 
the agreement early and didnt withdraw and that on that basis, VWFS is still responsible for 
the quality of the goods supplied in accordance with sections 9 and 10 of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA). And that under the same legislation she was entitled to reject it. Mrs 
B also says that the car didnt match its description piece, in breach of s11 of the CRA. 
Shed like VWFS to allow her to reject the car, to repay her the money shes paid under the 
agreement and the additional costs shes incurred in connection with this purchase.
VWFS said that Mrs B had withdrawn from the finance agreement on 3 September. This was 
within the first 14 days and for that reason, it didnt agree it had any responsibility regarding 
these complaints.
Our investigator said Mrs B had entered into the hire purchase agreement on 27 August but 
withdrawn on 3 September. In those circumstances, under s66 (A)(7) of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the finance agreement was treated as if it had never existed. For that reason he 
didnt consider that VWFS had any responsibility for the quality of the car supplied to Mrs B 
although she could still pursue her complaint against the supplying garage.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said, in 
summary:
she hadnt withdrawn from the agreement but settled it early. She didnt agree that 
this removed VWFS responsibility for the quality of the car at the time it was 
supplied.
The car hadnt been returned as would have been expected if shed withdrawn. Shed 
also had to pay interest on the settlement figure, which again supported her view this 
was an early repayment, not a withdrawal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Under the Consumer Rights Act a finance company that enters into a hire purchase 
agreement with a consumer, retains ownership of that vehicle until the finance is repaid and 
for that reason, it has a responsibility to ensure that any vehicle provided is of satisfactory 
quality. In this case Mrs Bs explained why she feels the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and 
why shed now like to reject it.
However, VWFS say Mrs B chose to withdraw from the agreement within the first 14 days 
and, for that reason, its responsibility for the car ended at the time of withdrawal. Mrs B 
disputes this and says she didnt withdraw but simply settled the finance early. She says if 
that wasnt the case shed have had to return the car and she wouldnt have had to pay 
interest. 
I note what Mrs B says but I dont agree. When Mrs B acquired the car she signed two 
agreement, one for the purchase of the car and one for the finance to pay for it. Settling the 
finance agreement doesnt invalidate the other agreement so, even if the finance is settled, 
Mrs B would still have been required to go ahead with the purchase, just using a different 
means to finance it. Its also the case that interest is still payable on an early withdrawal 
although the amount will be different to that of an early settlement.
In this case Ive listened to the call between Mrs B and VWFS. Having done so Ive heard 
VWFS explain to Mrs B the options of an early withdrawal or an early settlement. After 
explaining the difference, and the different costs, Mrs B chose to withdraw.  
Under section 66A(7) of the Consumer Credit Act where the consumer withdraws from a 
credit agreement within the first 14 days, the agreement will be treated as if it had never 
existed.  Im satisfied Mrs B did withdraw and that means that the agreement she signed with 
VWFS was also effectively withdrawn. As a result, VWFS is no longer regarded as being the 
provider of the car under the hire purchase agreement and its responsibilities under that 
agreement also cease. For that I cant agree that VWFS is responsible for the quality of the 
car at the point of supply.
Thats not to say Mrs B cant pursue her complaint with either the garage or the 
manufacturer, or both. However, those complaints dont come within the jurisdiction of this 
service so we cant look into them further but it may be that Mrs B can do so through another 
ombudsman scheme or the courts.
I realise this isnt the decision Mrs B is hoping for but for the reasons given I wont be asking 
VWFS to do anything more with regard to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman