DRN-2018746
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the poor service she received from British Gas Insurance 
Limited (BG) after an annual service visit was cancelled.
What happened
Mrs B has a Homecare policy with BG which provides her with an annual service visit. On 6 
November 2019, Mrs B booked an annual service visit for 26 November. On 25 November, 
BG cancelled this visit, explaining that it was due to excessive demand for emergency and 
priority appointments in her area. This was inconvenient to Mrs B as shed made 
arrangements to accommodate an engineers visit on 26 November.
Mrs B tried to make another appointment but the earliest that this could be arranged for was 
12 December. Mrs B thought this was bad customer service. She asked BGs service agent 
for the contact details of BGs CEO, and those of her supervisor, but the service agent 
wasnt able to provide these. Mrs B was told a complaint would be raised and that her 
supervisor would call her back. She was offered £10 compensation for the cancelled 
appointment, which she rejected. Mrs B emailed BG on 2 December to complain again about 
the cancelled appointment and that she hadnt received any response from the service 
agents supervisor.
On 17 January 2020, Mrs B contacted BG again as her boiler had stopped working properly 
and was only working intermittently. This had left her cold. She mentioned that she had a 
medical condition, which she didnt specify. An engineer came the next day and fixed the 
boiler.
On 29 January Mrs B contacted BG again to complain that it hadnt replied to her original 
complaint within the eight weeks BG is allowed for a response. She included within this a 
complaint that the reason her boiler had stopped working properly leaving her cold was 
because of something that shouldve been replaced by the engineer who undertook the 
annual service on 12 December.
Mrs B contacted BG again on 21 February. BG accepted that her original complaint 
shouldve been dealt with earlier. Mrs B said she wanted £100 compensation to close her 
complaints and for feedback to be given to BG contact centre staff. BG offered her £50 
compensation.
As Mrs B wasnt satisfied with BGs response to her complaint, she brought it to this service. 
She didnt consider BGs offer of £50 compensation was enough. She said she was seeking 
£100 compensation for two days of inconvenience, the stress and discomfort of having no 
heating for a week, and poor customer service. She also wanted an assurance from BG that 
its contact centre staff would be retrained. 
Our investigators view was that BG had resolved Mrs Bs complaints fairly. Mrs B doesnt 
consider that our investigator has fully understood her concerns and has asked that her 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman. The matter has therefore been passed to me for a 
final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mrs Bs complain and Ill explain why not.
Mrs Bs initial complaint was that BG had cancelled a scheduled service visit at short notice 
which had caused her inconvenience. She then had to be further inconvenienced by having 
to make arrangements for the service visit to take place on another date. 
Ive considered what Mrs Bs policy says about annual service visits. It says:
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such cold 
weather), we prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual 
service.
I dont have any reason to believe that prioritising breakdowns during a period of high 
demand was not a genuine reason for the need to reschedule Mrs Bs appointment.
So although I fully understand that this wouldve inconvenienced Mrs B because shed made 
arrangements for the engineers visit on 26 November and would have to make new 
arrangements for the rescheduled visit on 12 December, I dont consider that BG acted 
unreasonably in rescheduling Mrs Bs annual service in these circumstances. When Mrs B 
contacted BG on 17 January because her boiler had broken down, BG attended the next day 
and fixed it. This illustrates that BG are able to respond rapidly in response to a breakdown 
because these take priority over annual service visits to functioning boilers.
Mrs B didnt receive a formal response to her complaint about the rescheduling of her 
service visit until BGs letter of 7 March 2020. I consider this to be an unreasonably long 
delay. But I do take into account that BGs service agent had explained to Mrs B why it was 
necessary to cancel her original appointment, although Mrs B considered this to be a 
scripted response. 
In the circumstances I consider that £50 compensation is not unreasonable for the 
inconvenience of a cancelled and rescheduled appointment to service a functioning boiler 
and a slow formal response to a complaint about this.
Mrs B also complains that the engineer undertaking her annual service on 12 December 
2019 failed to replace a part that resulted in the problem she had with her boiler in mid- 
January 2020. I have no evidence to support this being the case. Mrs Bs policy states:
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This 
will include testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces.
 If the visit shows that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to 
adjust or clean it, well do so.During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what 
weve looked at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you 
about it.
So unless it was necessary for BGs servicing engineer to take Mrs Bs boiler apart because 
of an identified or reported problem, I dont consider BG did anything wrong. A problem 
could quite well have arisen between 12 December 2019 and mid-January 2020 that couldnt 
have been anticipated from a gas test or visual inspection on 12 December, and BG fixed 
the fault the day after it was reported.
My conclusion is that the only respect in which it would be fair for me to ask BG to put things 
right is to compensate Mrs B for the inconvenience of the short notice cancellation of her 
annual service visit on 26 November 2019 and the need for her to make arrangements for 
another visit, and the failure to respond within a reasonable timescale to her complaint about 
this. I consider that the £50 that I believe it has already paid her is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so Im not going to ask it to do more than this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not going to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and to ask 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything other than pay Mrs B £50 compensation if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman