DRN-3439097
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) hasnt refunded the 
upgraded premium they paid for travel insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have an annual worldwide multi trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
AXA. The policy renews in April each year. 
In April 2021, Mr and Mrs D renewed their insurance policy, however, they decided to 
upgrade the level of cover from comprehensive to luxury. This was because the 
comprehensive level of cover only insured trips with a maximum duration of 65 days and Mr 
and Mrs D had booked a trip for 77 nights during this insurance period. The luxury level of 
cover increased the trip duration to 95 days.
Unfortunately, in June 2021, Mr and Mrs Ds trip was cancelled by the travel provider. As 
they no longer had any trips booked which required the longer trip duration, Mr and Mrs D 
contacted AXA to ask for their policy to be downgraded to comprehensive level and 
requested a premium refund to reflect this change in cover.
AXA refused this request. It said that the plan was in place for one year and so the luxury 
level of cover would remain until the next renewal. AXA also pointed to the policy wording in 
which it states that the terms of cover can only be changed if it agrees and it didnt agree to 
downgrading cover midway through the term.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter, but he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
found that the policy was clear in stating that changes to the cover wouldnt be possible 
unless if agreed and that it didnt say anywhere that it was possible to downgrade the cover.
 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with our investigators view. They say they think the policy terms 
and conditions are unfair and heavily weighted against the customer. As no agreement could 
be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is about whether it is fair and reasonable for AXA to refuse to 
downgrade the level of cover Mr and Mrs D had purchased or refund any part of the 
premium to reflect this change.
The policy terms and conditions
On pages 10 and 11 of the policy provides information about the insurance contract. On 
page 11, under the heading Duration, it says that the policy lasts for a period of 12 months. 
On the same page it also describes information about the cancellation period as follows:
You are free to cancel this plan at any time. If you wish to cancel within 14 days of 
the plan start date or the receipt of the plan documents whichever is the later, you 
may do so by contacting us on 01892 504 444 or writing to us for a full refund 
providing you have not travelled and no claim has been made. If you cancel after the 
first 14 days of receipt of the documents, no premium refund will be made. 
In addition, there is a section of exclusions and conditions which apply throughout the policy. 
The one relevant to this case is as follows:
4. The terms of your plan can only be changed if we agree. We may require you to 
pay an additional premium before making a change to your plan.
Has AXA acted fairly?
Mr and Mrs D wished to downgrade their cover as they no longer had any need for the 
extended trip duration, as a result of their cancelled holiday. AXA said that the policy is in 
place for the full year and that it wouldnt agree to downgrade the cover mid-way through the 
policy year.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ds point of view here, however, having carefully considered the 
matter, Im not persuaded that AXA has acted unfairly. Ill explain why:
The terms of the policy state that the cover is in place for 12 months. When Mr and 
Mrs D took out the luxury level of cover, they did so for the full term of the policy. 
There is a condition in the policy which states changes to the terms can only be 
made if AXA agrees. Whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs D think it is unfair of AXA 
not to agree to this change, it is under no obligation to do so. 
Even though Mr and Mrs D didnt want to cancel the whole policy, as they had other 
trips booked, they were in effect asking AXA to cancel the upgraded cover portion. 
As is required by industry regulation, the policy provides a cooling off period of 14 
days from the date of sale during which the insurance contract can be cancelled and 
the premium refunded. And as is commonplace across many insurance policies, Mr 
and Mrs Ds policy terms state that no premiums will be refunded after the 14-day 
cooling off period. The request to cancel the upgrade wasnt made until sometime 
after that period had passed, meaning AXA didnt need to refund the premium even if 
it agreed to the downgrade of the policy cover.
Whilst the main reason for Mr and Mrs D taking the luxury upgrade was to cover the 
extended trip they were due to take, the upgrade did provide increased cover limits 
across many of the sections of the policy. I havent seen anything to suggest the 
higher cover limits only applied to the longer trips. Mr and Mrs D would therefore 
have still been able to benefit from the additional cover afforded to them by having 
this upgrade if something had happened on any of their other trips. 
Mr and Mrs D have commented on the problems incurred by the travel industry as a result of 
the Covid-19 pandemic and feel that, while travel companies and providers have responded 
with refunds and credits, AXA is hiding behind its policy terms. I understand their frustration, 
however, I can only consider what is fair and reasonable based on their details of their own individual complaint. And as Ive already detailed above, Im not persuaded that AXA was 
acting unfairly by refusing to downgrade the cover or provide a refund.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman