DRN-4118685
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to prevent him losing 
money to a recovery scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr R had previously been a victim of an 
investment scam. In 2022 he was contacted by a third party who said they could reimburse 
him with what hed previously lost. 
Mr R says hed already been reimbursed for that loss by Nationwide, but the scammer made 
everything sound convincing and plausible. He was told hed need to make payments and he 
did so with the scammer connected to his laptop by remote access software. Mr R says the 
scammer also made payments back into his account which reassured him it was all genuine.
As a result of the scam, between 28 November and 1 December 2022 a total of six 
payments were made from Mr Rs account towards the scam  these totalled £21,900. He 
also received two credits back into his account within the same timeframe and these totalled 
£8,006.
Mr R says all the payments went to accounts in his own name and Nationwide agree, adding 
that the confirmation of payee when sending the payments confirms this. From there they 
were sent on to the scammer as cryptocurrency. When the incoming payments stopped, 
Mr R realised hed been a victim of a scam and contacted Nationwide. Nationwides 
complaint response said that Mr R had suffered no loss as a result of the payments leaving 
his account with them, as theyd gone to other accounts in his name. Mr R referred the 
matter to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. In 
summary she didnt think the payments were unusual enough to warrant intervention by 
Nationwide, or that if they had intervened, that this would have made a difference.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr R has lost money to a scam. But my role requires that I remain impartial, 
and it would only be fair for me to direct Nationwide to reimburse him if I think they are 
responsible for errors that either caused the loss or hindered its recovery. I dont think they 
are, and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, at certain times Mr R has said that the payments were made by the scammer using 
remote access software. But even if the transactions were physically keyed by someone 
else, Mr R accepts he was present and aware the payments were leaving his account at the 
relevant time. So in these circumstances I consider the payments to be authorised. 
Nationwide should be on the lookout for unusual or suspicious payments which may indicate 
their customers are at risk of financial harm. But there is clearly a balance to be struck 
between stopping and checking payments and allowing customers free access to their 
funds. Its not practical to expect banks (or building societies) to stop and question all 
payments (or even all those of significant value). 
Ive reviewed the activity on Mr Rs Nationwide in the months prior to the scam. And whilst 
Mr R did send a lot of money from his account in a relatively short period of time, I cant fairly 
say that this should have stood out to Nationwide as so unusual or suspicious where Id 
expect them to have done more before processing the payments. This is in the context of 
Mr Rs previous account history. I wont list every instance of larger payments, but the 
previous transactions include a day in October 2022 where Mr R made three payments from 
his account each for £10,000. There are also occasions where Mr R makes transfers (albeit 
to what look to be other Nationwide accounts of his) for £20,000 and £30,000. Against this 
backdrop, I cant fairly say the payments made as a result of the scam would have stood out 
in such a way that I think Nationwide should have done more. 
And given the other accounts that received the funds were in Mr Rs own name, I wouldnt 
expect Nationwide to pursue recovery as Mr R could instruct this himself. And his testimony 
is that no money remained in any case.
Again, Im sorry Mr R has been the victim of a scam in this way. And despite my natural 
sympathy, as I dont think Nationwide are at fault here, I cant fairly require them to do more 
to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman