DRN-1828072
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement by Anglo Scottish Asset Finance 
Limited (ASAF).
What happened
In September 2016 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
ASAF.
Approximately two years into the agreement Mr B lost his job and experienced a change in 
his financial circumstances. He contacted the business to discuss his options and 
discovered that he wasnt able to voluntary terminate the agreement because hed entered 
into a fixed sum loan agreement, not a personal contract purchase agreement.
Mr B complained to this service. He wants to voluntary terminate the agreement.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Mr B ought to have been aware 
that he had signed a fixed sum loan agreement.
Mr B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said that he was mis-sold the finance agreement because he thought he was 
taking out a personal contract agreement. Hes also said he was provided with a different 
order form to the one provided to this service by the dealership and that his order form was 
for a PCP.
The dealership has explained that there were two order forms.  The first order form was 
based on a PCP but when Mr B wasnt approved for this, a second order form was 
processed based on a fixed sum loan agreement.
Ive looked at the agreement which Mr B signed. This clearly states that it is a fixed sum loan 
agreement. The supplying dealer has said that its salesman went through the details of the 
finance agreement with Mr B on the telephone. I can see that Mr B was provided with a 
product support sheet which he signed to say he was aware of the terms and conditions of 
the fixed sum loan agreement. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr B would have been aware (or ought reasonably to have 
been aware) that he was entering into a fixed sum loan agreement. I appreciate that he 
initially wanted a PCP but Im satisfied that when he wasnt approved for this, he agreed to 
go ahead with a fixed sum loan agreement. I think its clear from the agreement which Mr B 
signed that it was a fixed sum loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that Mr B was provided with adequate information about the key features of the 
agreement. If Mr B wasnt happy to enter into a fixed sum loan agreement, I wouldve 
expected him to raise this at the time.
Taking all of the available information into account, Im not persuaded that the agreement 
was mis-sold to Mr B. It isnt possible to voluntary terminate a fixed sum loan agreement, so 
Im unable to ask the business to do this.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman