DRN-2961891
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the lack of help and support he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
when he got in contact to explain that he was experiencing financial difficulty as a result of 
the pandemic. 
He is unhappy that Barclays: pursued him for missed payments, provided mis-information 
about a payment holiday request, recorded adverse information on his credit file; and, that 
he experienced long call waiting times. 
What happened
Mr Ts account was up to date in March 2020 - the beginning of the pandemic. Mr T says he 
tried to get in contact with Barclays from the start of April 2020 - when his next payment was 
due, as he was struggling financially because of the pandemic. But by the time he was able 
to speak to someone he had already missed his April payment.
Barclays hasnt disputed that there were some issues that followed which resulted in Mr Ts 
application for a payment holiday to be incorrectly declined and arrears letters being sent to 
Mr T. It also acknowledged that Mr T experienced longer call waiting times than usual, but it 
said this was a result of the impact of pandemic on its own business operations.
Ultimately, Barclays agreed a payment holiday for the next three months but not before three 
monthly payments had been missed (April, May and June 2020). Barclays also credited     
Mr Ts loan account with £394.32 - a payment equivalent to two monthly payments in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr T had experienced. 
But Mr T did not think this went far enough. He is unhappy that Barclays is still reporting 
adverse data on his credit file and pursuing him for the April 2020 payment. So, he referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of investigators considered Mr Ts complaint but she didnt uphold the complaint. She 
noted that Barclays had credited Mr Ts loan with £394.32. But she thought the missed 
payment being reported on Mr Ts credit file fairly reflected what had happened. So, she 
didnt ask Barclays to take any further action.  
Mr T didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. By way of a 
provisional decision dated 27 July 2021, I set out the reasons why I intended to uphold        
Mr Ts complaint.
My provisional decision and responses
The following is an extract from my provision findings set out in the provisional decision: 
On 9 April 2020 the regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), finalised guidance
for temporary relief for customers impacted by the pandemic. This included firms being
expected to offer a temporary payment freeze on loans and credit cards for up to three
months. This was later extended for a further three months (6 months total) after which firms
were expected to consider individual arrangements with customers based on their individual
circumstances in line with normal guidance involving financial difficulties.
While the guidance wasnt formalised until 9 April 2020, I think the FCA would have been in
contact with firms like Barclays and it would have been aware before 9 April of the general
expectations of the guidance. And I note that Barclays own guidance says: since March 
2020 customers whose income has been affected by coronavirus have been
able to apply for a 3-month payment holiday.
I acknowledge that by the time Mr T had contacted Barclays he had already missed one
payment. But, from what Ive seen, before this Mr T had maintained his loan account well.
And the missed payment occurred after the pandemic had started and after the government
had placed the UK in lockdown. So, I think its most likely that Mr Ts circumstances were
impacted by the pandemic.
There is some dispute about which actual date in April 2020 Mr T first tried to contact
Barclays. But, given the impact on the pandemic on business operations, I think its likely
that Mr T was trying to contact Barclays from early April - as he has suggested, and that he
had problems getting through. In any event, Barclays has accepted he was in contacted with
it by 15 April 2020.
In light of this and as Mr T contacted Barclays so soon after the FCA guidance came into
force, I think it would have been reasonable for Barclays to have considered Mr Ts missed
April payment within the FCA scheme and its own guidance. I say this because, at this point,
Mr T wasnt one months in arrears as Barclays has suggested, it had only been two weeks.
Had Barclays done so, Mr T wouldnt have had any adverse data recorded on his credit file
as a result of his inclusion within the FCA covid-19 relief scheme for up to 6 months. And
Barclays wouldnt have pursued him for the April 2020 payment.
So, I think that Barclays should remove any adverse data recorded on Mr Ts credit file 
while he was on the FCA pandemic relief scheme including the missed payment in
April 2020. Any collection activity relating to the April 2020 payment should also be stopped.
I note Mr T has said another loan provider declined a loan application due to the adverse
data Barclays had recorded. But Mr T asked for a payment holiday as hed been impacted
financially due to the pandemic. So, I think its unlikely that another lender would have
agreed to a loan if Mr T was experiencing financial problems.
But I acknowledge that due to a number of issues, it took longer than it should have for
Barclays to set up a payment holiday. But from what Ive seen it seems that it did go on to
agree a payment holiday in line with the extended FCA scheme. And Barclays appears to
have accepted responsibility for the delay. It credited Mr Ts loan account with £394.32 (the
value of the May and June 2020 repayments) in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
So, Ive thought about whether this fair recognition of the distress and inconvenience
caused. And, overall, as Mr T wont be required to make the May and June payments
himself, I think this is fair compensation for the delays, the long call waiting times and thecollection activity Barclays undertook relating to the missed payments.
I understand that Mr T has since contacted Barclays with regard to difficulties he is still
facing. As this wasnt part of Mr Ts complaint that was referred to this service, I make no
specific findings on this. But I note that a reduced payment plan was agreed around late
2020. So, I urge Mr T to continue to work with Barclays to ensure he is supported through
any on-going financial difficulties. But I should point out that this payment plan isnt part of
the covid-19 relief scheme and Barclays is required to report accurate information to the 
credit reference agencies about such arrangements.
Both Mr T and Barclays responded to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings and havent provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in my 
provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision dated 27 July 2021 (set out 
above), I uphold this complaint and instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
remove any adverse data recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to the April 2020 
loan repayment and any other adverse data recorded about the loan payments while 
on a covid-19 pandemic payment holiday;
stop any collection activity in relation to the April 2020 loan repayment or other 
payments while Mr T was within a covid-19 payment holiday scheme. 
I dont intend to make any further award as I think the payment made  as outlined above, is 
fair and reasonable compensation in all the circumstances of this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman