DRN-4328189
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc following some 
unauthorised transactions on his account.
What happened
Around two years ago, Mr C was refunded for some unauthorised transactions on his 
account. He says his details were amended, but an unauthorised payment was attempted 
again a short while later  HSBC was able to reverse this payment. Mr C is unhappy that 
HSBC is unable to explain why a third party was able to attempt an unauthorised payment 
even after his details had changed. 
Mr C is also unhappy about how he was treated by branch staff when this happened. He 
says he was made to feel at fault for the fraudulent transactions. So he complained to HSBC 
earlier this year. He says the experience left him stressed, in fear of using his account and 
that he had sleepless nights. Mr C adds that he refrained from using online and telephone 
banking for a year because of this fear and says he experienced inconvenience as a result.
HSBC says its unable to explain how someone was able to use Mr Cs details after hed 
changed them. It also apologised for any poor service Mr C may have received but noted it 
could no longer find out what happened in branch because of the time that had passed.
After Mr C asked this service to get involved, our investigator decided that the bank had 
acted fairly. Mr C doesnt agree and wants to be compensated for what he went through. 
The unauthorised payments were resolved at the time, so the only remaining complaint 
issue is regarding the service Mr C received from the bank.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that there isnt more for HSBC to do here and Ill explain why.
Mr Cs concerns about how HSBCs branch staff treated him refers to something that 
happened a few years ago. Mr C says he was too stressed to raise his complaint sooner. 
Given the time thats passed, HSBC cant obtain any information from its staff about what 
happened at the time. Mr C says he was made to feel at fault for the unauthorised payments 
because staff at the branch said he must have shared his details with someone. 
I can appreciate that it was a difficult time for Mr C as he was the victim of fraud multiple 
times within the same month. But I cant fairly conclude, based on Mr Cs recollection of what 
happened, that HSBC accused him of being at fault for the unauthorised payments. It seems 
to me, that the comment was likely speculative rather than an accusation. HSBC has 
apologised for causing Mr C to feel this way and Im of the view that this was a fair response 
to Mr Cs concern.
Mr C wants HSBC to inform him how a third party accessed his information to initiate the 
payments, even after his information had changed to avoid further unauthorised activity. 
HSBC says it cant provide an explanation. I dont find this to be unreasonable, given theres 
no obvious point of compromise. So it would be difficult to identify how a third party obtained 
Mr Cs information.
I understand that Mr C has since gone through a difficult time. He says hes been worried 
about using his account, hes been under stress and experienced sleepless nights. Mr C 
adds that he didnt use online or telephone banking for some time and limited his banking 
activity to branch visits  causing him inconvenience. 
However, I cant see that Mr C has gone through all of this specifically because of something 
HSBC has done wrong. It wasnt down to an act or omission on HSBCs part that led to Mr C 
being a victim of fraud. And Mr Cs act in limiting his banking activity to branch visits for a 
while seems to be a response to the fraud, rather than something HSBC has done wrong. 
So, although I empathise with him, I cant fairly say that HSBC caused Mr C the distress and 
inconvenience hes told this service about. So I wont be asking HSBC to pay any 
compensation.
To summarise, Im not persuaded that HSBC treated Mr C unfairly in branch or that it 
accused him of causing the fraud he experienced. There isnt anything to show how a third 
party obtained Mr Cs details, so I dont think HSBC was unreasonable when it said it 
couldnt provide this information. I also dont think that HSBC is responsible for causing the 
distress and inconvenience Mr C says he experienced, so I wont be awarding 
compensation. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman