DRN-4050180
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) dealt with an 
overpayment to a merchant. 
What happened
In late 2022, Ms S tried to pay £20 to a merchant for a service theyd provided, using her 
debit card. She explained she provided her card and PIN to pay. But the merchant said the 
machine wasnt working properly, so they tried twice more to take payment. It turned out that 
as well as taking the £20 due, theyd taken two additional payments totalling over £220.
Ms S reported this to Halifax, who raised a chargeback on her behalf. But the merchant 
successfully defended the chargeback, providing the necessary evidence to show that the 
payments had been put through using Ms Ss genuine card and PIN, at the same amounts 
that wouldve been shown to Ms S on the payment terminal. Halifax explained that under the 
scheme rules, they couldnt get a refund for Ms S. And they werent responsible for giving 
her a refund themselves, as shed authorised the payments.
Ms S spoke to the merchant directly and reported them to the relevant authorities, and got a 
refund in the end. But she was unhappy with Halifax. She felt they shouldve done more, and 
she felt theyd treated her as a fraudster.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Halifax werent responsible for refunding the payments, because Ms S had 
authorised them by providing her card and PIN. Theyd followed the right process by trying a 
chargeback, but unfortunately the chargeback hadnt worked, and there wasnt much more 
that Halifax could do.
Ms S didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that the merchant caused Ms S some real stress and upset here, and that 
she was facing issues with her health more widely, so she has my sympathy. I appreciate 
she found this issue distressing, and I certainly appreciate why she wanted her money back. 
Its worth keeping in mind that its the merchant who was primarily responsible for what 
happened, and its the merchant who owed Ms S her money back in the first instance  not 
Halifax. But in this decision, I can only look into what Halifax did. 
Broadly speaking, Halifax are responsible for refunding unauthorised payments  for 
example, payments made when someones card and PIN gets stolen. But its not in dispute 
that Ms S willingly provided her card and PIN to the merchant to make the disputed 
payments. So while she may not have intended to pay these extra amounts, under the 
Payment Services Regulations the payments would be considered authorised, meaning 
that Halifax were not responsible for refunding them themselves.
As the payments were authorised, there was only so much Halifax could do to try to help 
Ms S. Halifax are just a bank, they dont regulate merchants and are not the police  they 
couldnt force the merchant to give Ms S a refund.
What Halifax could try was a chargeback  this was the most appropriate way to try to get 
Ms S her money back. Chargebacks are voluntary, so Halifax didnt have to raise one  
though its generally good practice to try one in situations like this, so I think its right that 
they did so for Ms S.
When a bank does a chargeback, they have to follow the rules set by the card scheme  in 
this case, Visa. And those rules are quite specific. Here, Halifax followed the right process. 
Unfortunately, in response to the chargeback, the merchant provided the necessary 
evidence to defend themselves, meaning that the chargeback failed. And Im afraid there 
wasnt much more that Halifax could do. While I appreciate Ms S wanted to give them further 
evidence, Halifax had already taken the chargeback as far as it was reasonably going to go.
I can see Halifax explained that they hadnt been able to get Ms S her refund under Visas 
rules, and that they werent responsible for refunding the payments themselves as the 
payments were authorised. I cant see that they said or reasonably implied that Ms S was a 
fraudster, and Ive not found anything inappropriate or unreasonable in Halifaxs contact with 
Ms S. I hope I can reassure Ms S that no one here thought she was being dishonest. I have 
no doubts about what shes told us  the service from the merchant was clearly not 
supposed to cost over £200, and Im glad she got the refund she was due. The issue is that 
Halifax werent responsible for refunding her themselves, and while they took the appropriate 
steps to help her through the chargeback scheme, unfortunately the chargeback failed.
So I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for what went wrong here. The initial problem was 
caused by the merchant, the merchant were responsible for refunding Ms S rather than 
Halifax, and Halifax did what Id expect them to by trying a chargeback.
Ms S did the right thing by taking it up with the merchant and the authorities directly, and Im 
very glad to hear she got her money back. I think its the merchant whos really responsible 
for the trouble and upset Ms S faced, rather than Halifax. So while I do sympathise with 
Ms S, I cannot fairly make an award against Halifax in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Adam CharlesOmbudsman