DRN-3008932
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
But RCI arent responsible for everything that goes wrong with the car. Theyre only 
responsible for the quality of the car at the point of supply. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply. But as the fault with the console wasnt 
reported for about four years, legislation puts the onus on Mr P to demonstrate that fault was 
present or developing at the point the car was supplied to him.
I dont think Mr P has demonstrated that was the case. 
I note that in RCIs final response letter they refer to the issue as a manufacturing fault and 
if that was the case it may be that they had accepted that the fault was present after 
manufacturing, when the car was supplied to Mr P. I asked RCI about that but they didnt get 
back to me within the timescales Id required of them.
So, Ive thought about whether it was likely that there was a manufacturing fault and if thats 
what RCI were really saying when they wrote to Mr P. Im not persuaded they were 
suggesting the fault was caused by a manufacturing issue. I say that because I think if it was 
a recognised issue the manufacturer would have been likely to have agreed to cover the 
whole cost of the repair and not simply to have contributed towards it.
I think the fact that the fault didnt become evident for four years also doesnt suggest its 
very likely the fault was present or even developing when Mr P took receipt of the car.
So, in those circumstances, as I dont think theres evidence the car was faulty when 
supplied I dont think RCI needed to assist Mr P. I think RCI have been fair here. Theyve 
contacted the manufacturer and together theyve agreed to cover the costs of repair so that 
Mr P doesnt have to. RCIs contribution to that repair was just short of £1,400 and was 
made in recognition of their poor handling of the matter.
I can see that Mr P has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes explained that it was 
about six months after he told RCI about the problem that a repair was agreed and hes 
explained that the problem plagued him and his family for a significant amount of time and 
impacted his use of the car.
I understand that Mr P would like RCI to do more but Im persuaded, when taking the issue 
as a whole, that the money RCI have paid towards the repair is sufficient compensation for 
the issues Mr P has experienced. Im not asking them to do anything more.
Mr P is upset about the warranty on his car. He said he didnt know the cover ran out in 
August 2019 before the problem occurred and he says he should have been alerted to that. I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest it was RCIs responsibility to alert Mr P.
I can see that a maintenance, service and tyre policy was also financed through the 
agreement. But that agreement only covered some wear and tear items and Ive not seen 
evidence that it covered the console replacement that was required.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman