DRN-3828721
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd defaulted his account without giving him the 
opportunity to repay the outstanding debt or issuing the proper default notices. 
What happened
Mr P held an account with Monzo. In 2018 that account was closed, but then went 
overdrawn. Mr P did not discover this until September 2019, at which point he got in touch 
with Monzo to ask what had happened and why it had taken so long for Monzo to make 
contact with him. Monzo issued final response letters regarding those issues in October 
2019. Ive already issued a decision explaining why we cannot consider the events that were 
addressed in those final response letters, so this decision will look only at what happened 
from October 2019 onwards.
In October 2019 Mr P was told by Monzo that it would be holding him liable for the 
outstanding balance of £1800 on his account and that he would need to agree a repayment 
plan for the debt. Mr P sent Monzo details of his income and expenditure, which Monzo said 
it would pass on to its recoveries department, but Mr P says he heard nothing further from 
Monzo.
In December 2021 Mr P discovered that Monzo had recorded a default on his credit file 
relating to this account, so he called Monzo to complain. Mr P said he had not
received any notification of this default, so he felt it should be removed from his credit file. 
Mr P was also very unhappy with the service he received on this phone call.
Monzo looked into Mr Ps concerns, but was satisfied it had done enough to ensure Mr P 
was aware of the default and didnt agree it had given him poor service, so it didnt agree it 
had done anything wrong. Mr P remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our 
service.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened, but he felt Monzo had treated Mr P fairly. 
Mr P didnt agree, so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr P felt the call he had with Monzo on 7 December was handled poorly. 
Hes said the person he spoke to hung up on him after pretending not to be able to hear him. 
I dont have a recording of this call, so I cant know exactly what happened, but Monzos 
internal notes from the time of the call do suggest that the line went silent for a period of time 
which is why the staff member ended the call. I appreciate that would have been frustrating 
for Mr P, but Ive not seen anything to make me think the staff member acted inappropriately 
here or was deliberately trying to avoid speaking with Mr P.
Turning to the default, Ive looked carefully at all the correspondence between Mr P and 
Monzo that has been provided, as well as at Monzos records of what emails and text 
messages were sent to Mr P. I acknowledge that Monzo does appear to have had an 
incorrect phone number for Mr P as the text messages sent to him about his account after it 
was closed were being returned as undelivered. But even so, Monzo was also regularly 
emailing Mr P about the arrears on his account and about the default process  the default 
notice itself was issued via email on 24 November 2019, reminders of the default were 
emailed on 2, 10, and 18 December 2019, and Monzo confirmed the account had been 
defaulted in an email dated 18 January 2020.
Mr P says Monzo had an incorrect email address for him as well, but Ive not seen anything 
to show that is the case. All Ive seen is that one email was incorrectly addressed, by 
missing the .com off the end, theres nothing to suggest that this was how Mr Ps email 
address was recorded on Monzos systems. And I can see that many other emails both 
before and after this mis-addressed email were sent to the correct address. So Im satisfied 
that Monzo was sending the appropriate notification regarding the default to Mr Ps correct 
email address. 
I also note that earlier communications that Mr P did receive  specifically the email of 19 
September 2019 which alerted him to the overdrawn balance of his account  made it clear 
that his credit file could be affected if he did not repay the outstanding balance. So, overall, 
Im satisfied that Monzo did enough to make sure Mr P was aware of what was happening 
with his account and the potential for it to default.
Mr P says that if Monzos recoveries department had got in touch with him, as promised, 
then he would have been able to agree a repayment plan and therefore avoid the default. 
But I dont agree thats likely to be the case. Ive seen an email from Mr P dated 14 October 
2019 where he set out his income and outgoings, and this made it clear that he had no 
disposable income  his monthly outgoings were actually more than he was earning  and 
that he was making only token payments to other creditors. Ive then seen an email sent to 
Mr P on 16 October 2019 where Monzo suggested that given his financial circumstances, he 
could also make token payments to his Monzo account. But this email also noted that if the 
debt was not paid off in due course then the account could still default. It appears that Mr P 
did not see this email, as hes not referred to it anywhere in his communications with us, but 
even if he had seen it, and had made token payments to his Monzo account, that would not 
have been enough to avoid a default as hed not have been able to repay the debt in a 
reasonable period of time given his financial circumstances.
With all this in mind, I consider that the default does accurately reflect what has happened 
with Mr Ps Monzo account. Im satisfied that Monzo did what we would expect to keep Mr P 
informed about the default, but the debt has not been repaid, and Mr P does not appear to 
have been in a financial position to do so within a reasonable amount of time. So while I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr P, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Monzo to record 
the default. It follows that I dont therefore consider Monzo has treated Mr P unfairly.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman