DRN-3830932
The complaint
Mr B complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc, trading as Cardiff Pinnacle, cancelled his 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr B took the PPI policy out around 20 years ago. It was set up to cover his mortgage 
payments and provide a small income if he was out of work. 
On or around 1 March 2022, Cardiff Pinnacle wrote to Mr B to say that it had decided it was 
no longer viable for it to offer such PPI policies and that it was terminating all such cover. 
Cardiff Pinnacle said that Mr Bs policy would be cancelled automatically on 2 July 2022. 
Mr B was not happy with Cardiff Pinnacles decision and he made a complaint. He also 
cancelled his policy with immediate effect. As a gesture of goodwill, Cardiff Pinnacle offered 
to refund Mr Bs final premium. 
Mr B did not accept Cardiff Pinnacles response and so he complained to this service. In his 
complaint, he said the policy hed been sold was supposed to cover him for the 25 years of 
his mortgage. He thought Cardiff Pinnacle had fraudulently taken premiums from him for 
over 20 years. Mr B wanted Cardiff Pinnacle to compensate him for what he deemed to be 
an increased risk after being left without cover for the remaining five years of his mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B did not agree with that 
view and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld this 
complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing I want to clarify is that the decision to withdraw its PPI policies from the market 
is a commercial decision made by Cardiff Pinnacle. As our adjudicator explained, I cannot 
interfere with such commercial decisions. I cannot tell Cardiff Pinnacle to return a financial 
product to the market if it has decided to withdraw that product. 
That said, I have considered whether Cardiff Pinnacle acted within the policys terms and 
conditions in cancelling Mr Bs cover. I think the first thing for me to say is that whilst I accept 
Mr B intended to have this cover for the entirety of his mortgage, neither Mr B nor Cardiff 
Pinnacle were contractually bound for 25 years.
Looking at the terms and conditions, I can see that Mr B could have cancelled the cover by 
giving Cardiff Pinnacle 30-days notice. Cardiff Pinnacle was entitled to cancel the cover 
provided at least 90 days notice was given to Mr B if no substitute cover was being offered 
to him (as was the case here). 
Cardiff Pinnacle wrote to Mr B on 1 March 2022 to say the cover would come to an end with 
effect from 2 July 2022. So, Mr B was given roughly 120 days notice. Im satisfied Cardiff 
Pinnacle acted within the terms and conditions of the cover when it cancelled Mr Bs cover. 
In fact, it had given more notice than was required by the terms and conditions. 
I appreciate Mr B feels that Cardiff Pinnacle fraudulently took premiums from him for over 20 
years, but Im afraid I cant agree with him on that point. Mr B paid his PPI premiums for 20 
years and in exchange for those premiums, hes had cover. So, if hed needed to claim over 
the 20 years hed paid for PPI, hed have been able to. 
Mr B says he thought he should be compensated for being exposed to an increased risk now 
that his policy had ended. However, it seems to me that the purpose behind Cardiff Pinnacle 
giving Mr B a lengthy notice period is to give him the opportunity to find alternative cover. 
I know Mr B feels strongly that his policy shouldnt have been cancelled. However, I cant tell 
Cardiff Pinnacle to reverse its commercial decision to stop offering these PPI policies. It 
appears to have acted within its terms and conditions in cancelling the cover. In all the 
circumstances, I cant realistically say Mr B has been treated unfairly or unreasonably. 
Accordingly, I dont need to tell Cardiff Pinnacle to take any further action in respect of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Pinnacle Insurance Plc, trading as Cardiff Pinnacle. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman