DRN-3800238
The complaint
Mr K complains that Trading 212 UK Limited (T212) closed his accounts with them, which 
led him to having to pay tax on the amounts returned. Hed like them to cover these 
expenses.
What happened
Mr K held accounts with T212, for both investing and contracts for difference. In June 2021 
T212 placed limitations on Mr Ks accounts to carry out a review. They asked him to provide 
further information on his use of the accounts and the cards used to fund these. Mr K 
provided further information. T212 reviewed this, but later made the decision to close Mr Ks 
accounts. They wrote to him to give him 30 days notice.
Mr K thought this unfair and complained. He said they had already asked him about his 
account usage 16 months earlier, and did nothing at the time. He said as T212 had closed 
his accounts he had incurred a taxable event that left him at a loss.
T212 responded to say they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said the terms of 
their account allowed them to ask additional information about how an account is being 
used, and if they are unhappy with this information then they can go on to restrict or close 
accounts. They said they had provided the required notice of closure, and they were not 
liable for any further losses Mr K suffered.
Unhappy with this answer Mr K referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think T212 had acted unfairly. They said T212 acted in line with their legal and regulatory 
obligations when blocking, and then subsequently closing Mr Ks account. Having looked at 
the terms of Mr Ks account, they felt that they acted reasonably. They said T212 werent 
obliged to keep Mr K as a customer, and didnt think they should be held liable for any losses 
suffered by Mr K.
Mr K disagreed, saying if T212 had adhered to their legal and regulatory obligations they 
would have closed his account when they first asked him about transactions 16 months 
earlier. He also felt they could have followed any obligations without unduly inconveniencing 
him, such as allowing him to transfer his stocks and positions elsewhere.  As no agreement 
could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its right to say that as a regulated financial business T212 need to stick to their legal and 
regulatory obligations to monitor account and understand how the account is being operated. 
This can involve asking a consumer for more information about how theyre funding and 
operating an account  as happened here. I can see Mr K provided some information about 
the deposits and withdrawals on the accounts, and the card details he was using. And Im 
satisfied that T212 considered when carrying out the review of Mr Ks accounts. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks accounts with T212 allowed either party to close the 
account by providing written notice, which is what happened here. Ive seen the email that 
T212 sent to Mr K and Im satisfied that the amount of notice given  30 days  is in line with 
the requirements under the terms. Im not persuaded T212 have done anything unfair on 
unreasonable in doing so.
T212 arent obliged to provide their reasoning for closing the account to the consumer, and 
in this case have declined to do so. Again, their terms make this point clear. Having 
reviewed the evidence myself Im satisfied their reasons for doing so arent unreasonable. 
Ive considered what Mr K has said about the review being carried out 16 months previously 
and that if there were problems the account should have been closed then. But ultimately, I 
dont see anything significantly wrong with the way they closed his account when they did, 
and I cant see how closing the account earlier would have been a benefit to him.
I appreciate Mr K would have liked the opportunity to keep the account open, either with a 
sell-only restriction, or to allow him to transfer his investments elsewhere. However, coming 
back to the terms, these make it clear that T212 will not help facilitate transfer of investments 
to another firm, and that in the event of account closure these will need to be liquidated and 
cash transferred elsewhere. Theyre also not obliged to let him keep the account open in a 
sell-only state  their notice was clear they were looking to terminate their relationship with 
him. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied T212 havent treated Mr K unfairly. I understand 
hes unhappy that their actions triggered a tax event. But as Ive found T2112 acted in line 
with their terms and conditions, Im not directing them to cover any losses which may have 
resulted from reasonable actions. For these reasons Im not asking them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman