DRN-4251179
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the total loss settlement Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
paid and the poor service he received when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L bought a car insurance policy with Admiral. He bought his car under a personal contract 
purchase( PCP) agreement with a finance company. 
Admiral instructed an engineer to inspect Mr Ls car. The engineer decided it wasnt 
economical to repair, and so Admiral settled Mr Ls claim by paying the market value for his 
car at the time of the loss. It reached this sum by looking at two of the main motor trade 
guides. 
Mr L said the settlement sum was too low. He believed Admiral had based its sum on a 
lower specification of car to his - as he said his was a special first edition. Mr L complained 
about the lack of communication, delay and long wait times while waiting to speak to Admiral 
on the phone. Mr L said he had obtained a final settlement sum with the finance company 
and this was for more than Admiral paid to settle the claim.
Admiral said it had settled his claim correctly. It accepted it had provided a poor service. For 
this it apologised and paid Mr L £50 compensation. 
Mr L remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our Investigator followed our approach in looking at all of the available motor trade guides. 
Having done so, he found that the settlement Admiral had paid hadnt been reached in a 
reasonable way. So he recommended Admiral increase it to the average of all of the guides. 
He recommended Admiral increase the compensation it paid for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by £125, so a total of £175. 
Mr L accepted the Investigators recommendations. Admiral doesnt agree with our approach 
to include the additional trade guides to reach a valuation. It says the guides it used were 
correct and similar - the guides we have looked at are much higher. 
So as Admiral disagrees, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
We provided Admiral with details of our approach in response to its concerns about the 
additional guides we looked at, and this is available on our website: https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/complaints-deal/insurance/motor-insurance/vehicle-
valuations-write-offs
Admiral looked at two of the main motor trade guides which provided an average sum of 
£34,160 for Mr Ls car. Following our approach to ensure a fair valuation has been reached, 
we looked at all of the available main motor trade guides. These provide valuations for a car 
of the same make, model, specification, age, condition and mileage as Mr Ls car. 
Having done so, they provide an average valuation for Mr Ls car of £37,667.50. 
Admiral says the guides it uses are based on actual selling prices. It has concerns that the 
range of all four guides used is approximately £10,000. 
However, as our Investigator explained, we only disregard a valuation if one is clearly out of 
kilter with the others. In this case there is a wide range, but there isnt one of the valuations 
that appears as an outlier. So we have taken the average of all of the guides we look at 
when deciding if a valuation has been fairly reached. 
The guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices for the month 
of loss. So in line with our approach, I think a fair outcome is for Admiral to pay the 
difference to bring the market value for Mr Ls car to £37,667.50. I think Admiral should pay 
interest on the difference from the date of the claim to the date it pays Mr L as he has lost 
out on the benefit of that amount when settling the balance with the finance company. 
Mr L reported the incident to Admiral on 20 January 2023. From Admirals claim notes there 
are gaps where it shows Mr L called for updates - and chased when he hadnt heard from 
Admiral. Mr L complained about having long wait times when trying to get through to speak 
to Admiral, all of which Admiral accepted. On 13 March 2023 Mr L told Admiral he had 
disputed the valuation but hadnt received a response. 
So I think a fairer compensation award for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Admirals handling of Mr Ls claim is £175. As Admiral has already paid Mr L £50 
compensation, it should pay Mr L a further £125. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do the following:
Increase the total loss settlement sum to £37,667.50 as the average of all 
available main motor trade guides for Mr Ls car. 
Pay interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
of the claim to the date Admiral pays. 
Increase the compensation it pays Mr L from £50 to a total of £175, so an 
additional £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Admiral Insurance Company (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman