DRN-2564846
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim they
made on their home emergency insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs Vs boiler was around 17 years old. In late November 2019, they called British
Gas to make a claim, as they noticed their boiler was leaking. An engineer visited their home
but couldnt find the source of the leak. Mr V wasnt happy with how the engineer had looked
into things, so he asked for a second opinion.
A second engineer visited Mr and Mrs Vs home a few days later. He also couldnt find
where the leak was coming from. As he felt the boiler would need to be dismantled to find
the source of the leak and that there might be potential issues with reassembly, he didnt go
ahead. But he offered to arrange a quote for Mr and Mrs Vs boiler to be repaired and a
discounted quotation was provided.
Mr and Mrs V were unhappy with the fact that British Gas hadnt repaired their boiler and
they cancelled their policy. They felt British Gas had refused to carry out a repair and that
theyd been backed into a corner. They also independently got their boiler replaced.
British Gas refunded £25.10 for the premium Mr and Mrs V had paid since theyd last had
work done. But it didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said Mr and Mrs V had been
advised over the past few years that their boiler was on a reduced parts list and to consider
replacing the boiler. It also said the engineer had suggested that the boiler could be
repaired. But as it would need to be moved and dismantled and given the risk of not being
able to get the necessary boiler parts to get the work done and reassembled, there was a
high chance the repair could fail and leave Mr and Mrs V without heating.
Mr and Mrs V remained unhappy and they asked us to look into their complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator thought British Gas should refund Mr and Mrs V the cost of the
premium theyd paid during the 2019 policy year. She felt this was what the policy terms
required it to do. She did think Mr and Mrs V had been on notice that their boiler might not be
able to be repaired before they chose to renew their policies though, so she didnt think
British Gas needed to refund their premiums for previous years.
British Gas disagreed. It said itd visited Mr and Mrs Vs home four times during the 2019
policy year, so it didnt think it was fair to direct it to refund the full premium for that year. 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 December 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I planned to award Mr and Mrs V £50 compensation. I said:
It seems to me that there are two key issues for me to decide. Did British Gas handle the
claim fairly? And should it refund the premiums Mr and Mrs V paid for cover? Ill deal with
each point in turn.
Did British Gas handle the claim fairly?
Mr and Mrs V called British Gas in late November 2019 to let it know the boiler was leaking.
It seems that the boiler was still working at this point  although towels were needed to soak
up leaking water. The engineer who first attended couldnt find the leak. The internal job
notes British Gas has sent us reflect this. They also state that it would be uneconomical to
repair the boiler. It isnt clear whether the engineer gave his opinion to Mr and Mrs V during
his visit, as Mr and Mrs V say he told them hed speak to his manager and then didnt get
back to them.
Mr and Mrs V got back in touch a few days later and a second engineer visited their home. I
think this was a fair and appropriate response from British Gas, given the concerns Mr and
Mrs V had about the first engineer. British Gas says the engineer felt the leak was deep
inside the boiler and that in order to find it; the boiler would have to be taken apart. He felt
numerous parts might need to be changed and due to the age of the boiler, might not be
available. So the engineer was concerned that the repairs would be unsuccessful and that
Mr and Mrs V might be left without heating.
Its clear a repair wasnt carried out. The job sheet simply says that a quote had been
arranged (for a new boiler), while British Gas says the engineer gave Mr and Mrs V the
option for him to try and repair their existing boiler. Given the age of the boiler and the fact
that parts were largely obsolete and unavailable, it seems reasonable for the engineer, using
his expert opinion, to draw this conclusion. Especially given it was the coldest time of the
year and attempting a repair couldve left Mr and Mrs V without heating. It isnt so clear
whether the engineer explained his rationale to Mr and Mrs V though. The job sheet he gave
them simply referred to arranging a quote. I think this does tend to suggest that the engineer
explained replacing the boiler was the best option.
Ive looked closely at the job records. It seems that from at least 2015 onwards, engineers
had advised Mr and Mrs V that there might be reduced availability for parts for the boiler and
that some parts were obsolete. This was reiterated by other engineers, including in June
2019. So the engineers findings in December 2019 do appear to be supported by earlier
reports from other engineers whod looked at the boiler.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I currently think it seems fair for British Gas engineers to
have relied on their professional judgement to decide they couldnt repair the boiler.
Should British Gas refund the premium Mr and Mrs V paid for cover?
Ive looked carefully at the renewal documents Mr and Mrs V were sent ahead of their policy
renewals in 2018 and 2019. The renewal letters both state that the manufacturer of Mr and
Mrs Vs boiler had stopped making their boiler some years beforehand and that parts were
becoming difficult to source. The letters pointed out that this meant British Gas might not be
able to fix their boiler, although itd do its best to keep it running for as long as possible.
Taken together with the advice Mr and Mrs V had been given by a few engineers about the
potential for boiler parts to be obsolete and that their boiler might need to be replaced, I think
they ought to have been aware that there was a real risk that British Gas might not be able
to repair their boiler. They decided to go ahead with renewing the policy despite these clear
warnings.
I also think the renewal documents made it clear what would happen if British Gas couldnt
fix the boiler. It said:
In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund back dated towhen you last had work done, or to when you renewed your agreement  whichevers the
most recent.
Mr and Mrs Vs policy renewed in May 2019. Between the renewal date and the date they
cancelled the policy in December 2019, Mr and Mrs V had four visits from engineers,
including their annual service and to investigate problems with the boiler. Their last visit was
on 6 December 2019  a few days before the policy was cancelled. So Im satisfied they did
benefit from the cover and it wouldnt be reasonable to direct British Gas to refund the
premium Mr and Mrs V paid for 2019.
The policy terms also set out that if a policyholder cancels the policy after British Gas has
completed work, cancellation charges will apply. These include £65 for an annual service
and £115 for boiler or central heating repairs. I also think its fair for British Gas to take into
account that Mr and Mrs V were on risk for over seven months of their policy. It seems the
refund of premiums British Gas paid takes into account the call out charges, repair costs and
the time they were on risk.
Overall, Im not planning to tell British Gas to refund the premium Mr and Mrs V paid for their
policy in 2019 or in the years beforehand. Having considered everything though, it isnt clear
to me that British Gas engineers gave Mr and Mrs V as clear a picture about why their boiler
couldnt be repaired or kept them as updated as they couldve done. And it seems that
British Gas took over two months to acknowledge Mr and Mrs Vs concerns, which added to
their frustration. So I think an award of compensation is appropriate to recognise the impact
this had on Mr and Mrs V. In the circumstances, I think £50 is fair and reasonable.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence they wanted me to consider.
British Gas maintained that it felt that its engineers had given Mr and Mrs V sufficient 
information about their boiler during their visit. But it acknowledged thered been some 
delays in responding to their concerns. So it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs V the £50 
compensation I planned to award.
Mr and Mrs V disagreed with my provisional decision. They said it was categorically incorrect 
that theyd been sent a quote.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think a fair outcome to this complaint is for British Gas to pay Mr and 
Mrs V £50 compensation and Ill explain why.
Im pleased British Gas has agreed to pay the compensation I outlined in my provisional 
decision. So I dont think I need to comment any further on this point.
Mr and Mrs V say that British Gas didnt send them a boiler replacement quote. As I 
explained in my provisional decision though, my reference to a quote within my provisional 
findings was based on the engineers job sheet stating that theyd arrange a quote. I didnt 
make any finding on whether or not a quotation had been given. In this case though, I dont 
think it makes any difference to the outcome of the complaint.
Overall, having considered everything again, I still think it was fair for British Gas engineers to rely on their expert opinions to decide the boiler couldnt be repaired. I also still dont think 
British Gas needs to refund the full premium Mr and Mrs V paid in 2019, or during the 
preceding policy years. But I remain satisfied that British Gas caused Mr and Mrs V some 
distress and inconvenience in the way it handled their claim. So I still think its fair and 
reasonable for British Gas to pay Mr and Mrs V £50 to reflect this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint in part.
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs V £50.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman