DRN-3337066
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
loan application. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr M applied for a £5,000 loan over a four year term with Creation. In his 
application, Mr M said he had an income of £1,650 a month and paid rent of £300. Creation 
says it completed a credit search and found monthly commitments for unsecured loans of 
£541 and around £4,000 of revolving credit. 
Creation says the loan was approved in line with its lending criteria. Mr M missed two 
payments in 2019 and went on to clear the outstanding balance. 
Last year, Mr M complained that Creation had lent irresponsibly. Creation didnt uphold 
Mr Ms complaint and he referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
upheld Mr Ms complaint and asked Creation to refund all interest and charges applied to the 
loan from inception. They also asked Creation to remove any adverse information recorded 
on Mr Ms credit file. 
The investigators findings were issued in September 2021 and Creation sent in some further 
information. But the investigators view didnt change and despite multiple attempts to obtain 
a response to the complaint assessment, we didnt hear back from Creation. As Creation 
didnt respond to the investigator, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Creation had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Ive looked at the information Creation had available when it considered Mr Ms loan 
application. I note Mr Ms unsecured loan repayments and outstanding balance were 
reasonably high when compared against his income. And whilst Creation took Mr Ms rent 
and borrowing into account, I havent seen anything that shows it factored other regular 
outgoings into its assessment. I think its reasonable to say borrowers are likely to have 
regular outgoings that arent covered by rent and unsecured credit. Taken with the four year 
term of the loan, I think Creation shouldve considered completing better checks to ensure 
the loan repayments were sustainable. 
As noted above, theres no set list of checks Creation had to complete. But an option for 
verifying a consumers circumstances wouldve been to get a copy of Mr Ms bank 
statements for the period running up to the application. Mr M has sent us copies of the 
relevant bank statements. They show Mr Ms outgoings were higher than Creation found 
when completing a credit search. The statements show that Mr Ms income was lower than 
the figure given in the application. 
Had Creation completed better checks I think it wouldve found further borrowing was 
unsustainable for Mr M and declined to proceed. As a result, Im upholding Mr Ms compliant. 
It wouldnt be fair for Creation to report adverse information about a debt that was lent 
irresponsibly. So Im also going to tell Creation to remove any adverse information reported 
on Mr Ms credit file in relation to this loan. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
settle as follows: 
- Refund all interest and charges applied to Mr Ms loan from inception to redemption
- Pay interest on the above at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
- Remove any adverse information recorded about this loan from Mr Ms credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Creation should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman