DRN-1605277
The complaint
Mr M and Miss B are unhappy with the actions of Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, when 
applying for a further advance.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr M and Miss Bs fixed rate deal with Halifax was coming to an end. Theyve 
said they spoke to Halifax because they were planning on doing some building work to their 
house and wanted to see if theyd be able to borrow further money at some point in the 
future. They say they were told theyd be able to borrow an additional £152,600.
They say because of these conversations they re-mortgaged with Halifax. This was 
August 2018, and between then and January 2019 they got various builders quotes to fulfil 
the work.
In January 2019 Mr M and Miss B got in touch with Halifax again  this time to discuss 
getting the further advance. And over January and February Mr M and Miss B were given 
conflicting information about the process for the further advance and how much could be 
provided. They were also concerned that a revaluation would be needed for the amount they 
wished to borrow  something that hadnt been mentioned in earlier conversations. Because 
of all these issues, they complained to Halifax.
Halifax looked into things and accepted it hadnt handled things well. It said it couldnt see 
any conversations in 2018 about the further advance but had found a later conversation from 
February 2019 where they were given incorrect information. Halifax also clarified the correct 
process for how much Mr M and Miss B could borrow  and paid them £400 as an apology 
to recognise the mistakes.
Mr M and Miss B didnt accept this and complained to Halifax again  partly because they 
were concerned about a data breach as Halifax had referred to Miss B by another persons 
name in its previous response. They also complained theyd been given further incorrect 
information, had issues with payslips and queries related to Mr Ms travel allowance which 
he had to go to his HR department for  amongst other things. Mr M and Miss B asked 
Halifax to waive their early repayment charge (ERC) on their existing mortgage because of 
all the issues so they can take their re-mortgage elsewhere  having lost faith in Halifax at 
this point.
Halifax considered these further points  and again accepted it had made mistakes. It said it 
had said Miss Bs name wrongly, but no data breach had happened. It had also raised their 
expectations about how long the process would take and had put them to further 
unnecessary inconvenience. For these further issues it paid Mr M and Miss B an additional 
£450, but said it wasnt prepared to refund the ERC.
Mr M and Miss B werent happy with this, so asked us to look into things. One of our 
investigators did so, but he didnt uphold their complaint. He said because Mr M and Miss B 
hadnt been given a formal offer they didnt have enough information to assume the further 
advance was guaranteed  so he didnt think the ERC needed to be refunded. And he felt 
the total £850 compensation awarded by Halifax was fair.
Mr M and Miss B didnt accept this. They reiterated that had they been given the correct 
information in July 2018 theyd probably have got a re-mortgage elsewhere  and one that 
would have allowed them to get the further funds they wanted for their building project. 
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read through everything Mr M and Miss B have experienced I can understand their 
frustration. Theyve been given conflicting information on several occasions, and just 
generally had a very unsatisfactory experience. 
Theyve said they think they should receive a refund of the ERC because of this. But, I can 
only order Halifax to waive the ERC if I think thats appropriate, and for reasons Ill go on to 
explain I dont think it is.
Service provided
Mr M and Miss B were given conflicting information and advice repeatedly throughout the 
time they enquired with Halifax about re-mortgaging. And theyve said they relied on the 
information given by Halifax in 2018 when re-mortgaging, to say theyd be able to get the full 
amount they wanted at some point in the future.
While I understand their concerns, Im afraid I cant agree. The criteria of lenders  including 
how much theyd be prepared to lend  can change at any time. This would be true of 
virtually all lenders in this kind of scenario  so without a formal offer, I dont think Mr M and 
Miss B could reasonably rely on this informal conversation in July 2018 as a guarantee of 
the amount of additional lending some six months later.
I have noted that Halifax gave Mr M and Miss B different figures of what theyd be prepared 
to lend in January and February 2019, which is clearly unhelpful. But, as part of this Halifax 
said itd potentially be prepared to lend the amount Mr M and Miss B wanted if the property 
was revalued. They turned this down, saying they hadnt been told this before. But they 
hadnt formally applied before. And I dont think it was unreasonable of Halifax to require a 
valuation of the property before agreeing to significant additional lending.
After the revaluation had been turned down, Halifax made an offer to lend to Mr M and 
Miss B  but they also turned this down saying they felt forced to move elsewhere in order to 
resolve matters because of the poor service.
Halifax have awarded a total of £850 compensation for all of the errors. And to provide a 
complete answer to this complaint Ive considered whether itd be appropriate to award any 
more.
As Ive said several times above, there is no doubt that during Mr M and Miss Bs attempts to 
re-mortgage their property to complete their building works Halifax significantly added to 
their distress.Giving inconsistent and at times incorrect information, not communicating clearly and asking 
for information not needed could have all been avoided. But, having considered Mr M and 
Miss Bs experience, Im satisfied £850 fairly reflects the distress theyve been caused by 
Halifaxs actions  so I wont be ordering Halifax to pay further compensation.
Charging of the ERC
Mr M and Miss B have argued theyve been charged the ERC because of incorrect or 
conflicting information from Halifax  and because of that they should be refunded it. But that 
isnt strictly true. The ERC was applied because they ended their mortgage with Halifax 
within the fixed term, for which an ERC was chargeable. They may have felt compelled to do 
so, but I havent seen anything to suggest that incorrect information provided by Halifax was 
given about or led to the ERC.
As I said at the start, I can understand their frustration, and Halifax have undoubtedly given 
them very poor service. But ultimately Mr M and Miss B chose to go with another provider, 
when they were still within their fixed term with Halifax, knowing that this would result in an 
ERC. And the information I have shows Halifax could potentially have given them the lending 
they required, in the time they needed. I understand why they didnt want to accept the 
revaluation, or the lower figure, but it was Mr M and Miss Bs choice not to go ahead, when 
they could have. Because of this, I dont think its appropriate for Halifax to refund the ERC 
charged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman