DRN-3863950
The complaint
Mr A complains about two margin calls made on positions he had open in his IG Markets 
Limited CFD account.
What happened
On 5 April 2022 Mr As Natural Gas position was closed due to a margin call. Mr A says he 
tried to add funds into his account but continued to get errors, so he doesnt think its fair the 
position closed without him having a chance to add funds.
On 25 April 2022 Mr As Ocugen position closed due to a margin call. Mr A disputes the 
price at which the position closed, he says the price was lower than the lowest price that 
day.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that both 
positions closed correctly due to Mr A having less than 50% of the margin in available funds. 
He said there wasnt any evidence to suggest Mr A was prevented from adding funds in 
time. He also said the price at which Mr As Ocugen position closed was the bid price as it 
needed to be sold and IG provided evidence to show this was correct.
Mr A disagreed and asked for a decision. He provided some screenshots and say that he 
couldnt add funds in time. He also said the price of 2.28 was wrong for his Ocugen position 
to close at. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator for similar reasons. Im 
not upholding this complaint.
Natural Gas position
On 5 April 2022 Mr As equity fell below 50% of the margin for his Natural Gas position. Ive 
seen evidence of this and it isnt in dispute that this was the case. Mr As complaint is that he 
wasnt able to fund his account to prevent the position closing. IG has provided evidence to 
show that Mr A funded his account three times prior to the position closing. He then had two 
failed attempts to fund his account via Paypal  which doesnt appear to be a problem IG 
caused. Only one of these attempts was before the position closed  but only two minutes 
before.
From what I can see, Mr A had the opportunity to fund his account, but hadnt managed to 
stop the margin call. I cant see that IG has prevented him from funding his account or that 
his position closed incorrectly. And Im not sure its likely hed have put his account in the 
position it needed to be in to avoid the margin call happening.
Ocugen position
On 25 April 2022 Mr As equity fell below 50% of the margin for his Ocugen position. Ive 
seen evidence of this and its not disputed that this is the reason the position closed. Mr As 
complaint is that the price it closed at was 2.28 when he can see the lowest price that day 
was 2.29. He feels IG hasnt justified the price at which the position was closed and has lost 
out as a result.
IG has provided evidence to show that the lowest bid price on that day was 2.28. It said that 
it used the bid price because Mr As position had to be sold to close it out. I dont consider IG 
has done anything wrong by doing this.
In summary, I can see IG has acted in line with the agreement Mr A has with it and I cant 
see its acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman