DRN-4011431
The complaint
Ms P, via her representative, has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
mis-sold her a fee-paying Royalties Gold account, that was sold to her in July 2009. 
Ms Ps representative says that Ms P was in a financially vulnerable position when the 
Royalties Gold account was sold to her. She says Ms P was told that the only way to have 
an overdraft facility was to have a Royalties Gold account. Ms P also says that she had no 
need for the other benefits on the account, due to her medical issues.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that the Royalties Gold 
account had been mis-sold. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the 
matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
This decision will only be looking at the sale of Ms Ps Royalties Gold account. I note that Ms 
Ps representative has said that Ms P was in financial difficulties and that RBS may not have 
treated her sympathetically. If Ms P remains unhappy with this aspect of her complaint, she 
would need to in the first instance raise this directly with RBS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ps complaint. Having done so, I am not 
going to uphold the complaint. I will explain why. 
Firstly, I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute, I have to decide 
matters on the balance of probabilities. Or put another way, I have to decide what I think was 
most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Ms P says that she was told that she had to have the Royalties Gold account in order to 
have an overdraft facility. Unfortunately, due to how long ago the conversation took place, 
there is no record of what exactly was discussed when the account was sold to Ms P. 
Therefore, I have to weigh up what Ms P can recall about the sale, alongside everything else 
that is available.
Based on what I know about the account at the time, I understand it cost £12.95 per month 
and provided a range of banking and insurance benefits. Included in these benefits, were 
special deals on mortgages, a £250 interest-free overdraft with preferential (compared to 
rates on fee-free accounts) interest rates on overdrawn balances above this amount (up to 
the agreed limit). It also provided preferential interest rates on loans and credit cards too.
Looking through everything, I can see that Ms P already held an overdraft on her account 
prior to taking out the Royalties Gold account. I also cant see any application to increase or 
change the overdraft at the time of the sale. So I find it unlikely that Ms P agreed to the 
Royalties Gold account in order to obtain an overdraft facility  given that she already held 
one. It may be the case though, that one of the reasons that Ms P agreed to the Royalties 
Gold account was due to the overdraft benefits that it provided. 
To explain one of the key banking benefits that the account provided was a £250 interest 
free overdraft facility with reduced interest rates above that amount. So I think it is likely that 
this is what Ms P recalls, rather than being told she had to have the account in order to get 
an overdraft in the first instance. 
The other benefits that the account provided were mobile phone insurance, breakdown 
cover, travel insurance, discounts on household insurance and home emergency cover. I 
accept that Ms P may not have needed all of these benefits. But it does seem as if she did 
own a house at this point, as I can see that she was paying for home emergency cover and 
paying for household insurance too. So it may have been the case that she was initially 
intending to rely on the home emergency cover and benefits from the discount on household 
insurance that the account came with. Though I accept that she may not have gone on to 
use these benefits.
So when weighing everything up, I think its more likely that Ms P agreed to the Royalties 
Gold account because of the benefits it provided, rather than because she thought she had 
no choice in the matter.
From what I can see and from what I know of RBSs sales process at the time the account 
was likely sold on a non-advised basis, so RBS did not need to ensure that the account was 
right for Ms P. It did though, need to give her enough information so that she could do this 
for herself.
I accept its possible that RBS might not have given Ms P all of the information about the 
account when it was first sold to her and given the lack of information from the time of the 
sale, I cant say for certain if the documentation provided to Ms P wouldve met her 
accessibility needs. But Ive not seen anything about Ms Ps circumstances at the time that 
makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had she been given more 
information about the account and the associated benefits.
Ms Ps representative has said that Ms P was suffering from financial difficulties at the time 
of the sale and therefore she should not have been sold this account. Looking at Ms Ps 
bank statements from the time of the sale, I dont think that there is enough for me to say 
that it was clear that Ms P could not afford the account. The account seems to have been 
reasonably well managed and whilst the overdraft was used there was regularly a credit 
balance so I dont think that RBS should not have sold the account to Ms P in the first place.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, on balance, I dont think that the Royalties Gold 
account was mis-sold. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Ms P. But I 
would like to assure Ms P that I have carefully considered everything she has told us in 
reaching this decision. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman