DRN-3126635
The complaint
Mr R complains that his claim for legal expenses insurance (LEI) has been incorrectly 
declined by U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance.
What happened
Mr R owns a house. Mr R says he allowed his uncle to live at that house under licence. Mr R 
didnt live at the house. Mr R says he decided to evict his uncle from the property due to his 
failure to maintain it. Mr Rs uncle subsequently issued a letter threatening Mr R with an 
injunction for harassment and questioning the validity of the document under which the 
property ownership was transferred to him.
Mr R approached Churchill to make a claim under his LEI policy. At first Churchill told Mr R 
that he wasnt covered because the policy was for the insureds home and this wasnt his 
home.as it wasnt his main residence. But when Mr R explained that he had told Churchill 
this was his second home Churchill agreed that it wouldnt decline the claim based on the 
fact that the property wasnt his home. 
Churchill did, however, still think Mr Rs claim should be declined. It said Mr R wasnt 
covered because the policy excludes this type of claim as his uncle was living there under a 
licence previously and now refuses to leave. Therefore, the basis of the dispute is in relation 
to the licence.
Mr R felt Churchill was wrong. He said when he took out the cover, he was told that he 
would be covered as even though he wasnt living there a family member was. He also 
thought that the licence to occupy exclusion shouldnt apply because the licence had 
expired.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Mr Rs dispute 
wasnt covered.
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans decision. He felt the dispute should be covered because it 
started after the licence had expired and should be covered under the part of the policy 
which covers trespass.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 22 September 2020. In it I said having looked carefully at 
the legal expenses cover of the policy. The most relevant sections for me to consider were 
the sections on contract disputes and protecting your property.
Looking at the section on contract disputes I could see that there was cover for disputes 
about buying or hiring goods or services. But I could also see that cover didnt include 
disputes arising from or relating to leases, tenancies or licences to occupy land or buildings. 
The section on protecting your property covered legal nuisance and trespass to your home 
but also excluded claims arising from or relating to leases, tenancies or licences to occupy 
land or buildings.
Mr R had told this service that his uncle occupied his property under a licence. I said I didnt 
have enough information to say whether his uncles occupation was under a licence or a 
tenancy but what was clear was that he occupied with Mr Rs agreement. Mr R said after the 
licence expired his uncle was trespassing and so he should be covered. I did not agree he 
should be covered. Mr Rs uncle occupied the property with his agreement. The dispute 
between them arose from Mr Rs uncles refusal to leave the property. To establish that 
Mr Rs uncle was trespassing would require a consideration of the agreement which allowed 
Mr Rs uncle to occupy the house. Therefore, I thought Mr Rs claim wasnt covered under 
the policy as it did not cover claims arising from or relating to agreements to occupy land. 
I appreciated Mr R felt Churchills legal department took another view. From what Id seen I 
wasnt sure that the legal helpline  which is what I think he means when he says legal 
department - did take a different view. I thought they were trying to see if they could help him 
and after carefully considering things concluded he was not covered.
I noted that Mr R also said that his uncle was claiming that Mr R had harassed him and had 
been questioning the validity of the document under which the property ownership was 
transferred to him. Harassment isnt something that is specifically listed under any of the 
things the policy covers. So, it was not clear it would be covered at all. In any event as the 
claim for harassment comes out of the dispute about whether Mr Rs uncle can remain at the 
property, I was satisfied that this wasnt covered.
Regarding the question by Mr Rs uncle about the validity of the document under which the 
property ownership was transferred I couldnt see that this would be covered unless it fell 
under the disputes relating to inheritance. If this was the case Mr R could provide this 
service with more information when he responded to the provisional decision and Id ask 
Churchill to consider whether he is covered.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Churchill didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Mr R did. He didnt agree the dispute was in relation to the licence agreement. He says the 
dispute is about trespass and legal nuisance. He says that a trespass notice was served on 
3 October 2019. He also says he was told by the legal department of Churchill that the 
licence agreement wouldnt be covered but he would be covered under trespass and legal 
nuisance. And that the law firm he was referred to also advised him that he would be 
covered under the policy as they stated they didn't understand why Churchill was rejecting 
the claim. He thinks it would be appropriate to refer the complaint to the legal ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have carefully considered Mr Rs points, but he hasnt changed my mind. To establish that 
Mr Rs uncle was trespassing or causing a nuisance would require a consideration of the 
agreement which allowed Mr Rs uncle to occupy the house. Therefore, Mr Rs claim isnt 
covered under the policy as it does not cover claims for contract, trespass or nuisance 
disputes arising from or relating to agreements to occupy land. The use of the words arising 
from or relating to considerably widens the scope of the exclusion and captures Mr Rs 
dispute with his uncle.
I appreciate that Mr R says he was told that his policy would cover the dispute so far as it 
related to trespass or nuisance. As I have explained this is wrong because the policy 
excluded from cover trespass or nuisance disputes which were arising from or relating to 
leases, tenancies or licences to occupy land or buildings such is the case with Mr Rs 
dispute with his uncle. 
As I also explained in my provisional decision from what Id seen I wasnt sure that the legal 
helpline did tell him he was covered. I thought they were trying to see if they could help him 
and after carefully considering things concluded he was not covered. Churchill made it clear 
to Mr R that he wasnt covered soon after he made the claim. So, I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
The Legal Ombudsman investigates complaints between consumers and their legal service 
providers. Mr R is free to take a complaint to it if he wants to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman