DRN-3672991
The complaint
Mr S complains about American International Group UK Limited (AIG) who sent him a 
different replacement gadget following a claim under his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S device was stolen, and he made a claim with AIG. AIG accepted the claim and sent 
him a replacement. Mr S expressed his dissatisfaction with the replacement device as it was 
not the same model and colour as his previous stolen device. 
AIG said that the device that had been the same model and colour was out of stock, so it 
sent another device that had the same specification as Mr S stolen device. It explained that 
under the policy there was no guarantee that Mr S would be given the exact model and 
colour. But AIG said that it had complied with the policy with the replacement that it had 
given Mr S. 
Mr S was still unhappy and made a complaint. In its final response, AIG maintained its 
position that it had complied with its obligations under the policy. It offered Mr S £30 for its 
failure to tell him that it wasnt replacing the device with the same colour or model. 
Mr S was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that AIG had acted in 
line with the policy terms and conditions, as there was no guarantee that it would replace the 
device with the same model or colour. She concluded that the £30 compensation offered for 
the error in not telling Mr S that a different device would be sent to him was fair. So, there 
was nothing further she could reasonably ask AIG to do. 
AIG accepted the view, Mr S did not. Mr S said that he thought by making the claim, he 
would be given the same replacement model, which he was not. He explained that the main 
issue with his complaint is that AIG failed to tell him that the replacement device wasnt 
going to be the same model or colour. He explained he understood what was in the policy. 
But that he felt misled. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mr S, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.
Mr S made a claim following the theft of a few items (the other devices are not part of this 
complaint). He was sent a replacement device that he said wasnt the same model or colour 
of the device that had been stolen. He also said that AIG failed to tell him that it would do 
this  which was the main issue of this complaint. 
I have carefully considered both parties comments and reviewed the policy terms and 
conditions.  Having reviewed the terms, the obligations that AIG had under the policy are it 
had to replace the device with the same make, model and specification as the stolen device: 
If your Device is Lost or Stolen, we will replace it with a Device of the same make and model 
of the claimed Device. If the same make and model of Your claimed Device is not available, 
you will receive a Device with an equivalent specification.
Mr S said that he understood what was in the policy. But from this term, AIG responsibility 
was to replace the claimed device with the same make, model and specification. But there is 
an additional part of the term which says that where the same device is unavailable, then a 
device that is equivalent can be provided. Which is what AIG did here. 
I have listened to some call recordings where Mr S made the claim. He was told that the 
device was out of stock and that it might take a few days for it to be replaced. 
I havent seen any evidence from AIG that it had explained to Mr S that the replacement 
device might be an equivalent specification. It has provided me with evidence that showed 
that the replacement device had the same specifications of the stolen device. So, Im 
satisfied that AIG complied with its obligations under the policy. 
For the error of not telling Mr S about the alternative replacement, AIG offered compensation 
of £30 for the trouble and upset caused. Our service has publicised levels of compensation 
and on what we think is fair and in what circumstances. An award of this amount is fair 
where there was minimal impact caused. And taking all of the points into consideration, I 
think that the error had minimal impact on Mr S and the amount offered is in line with what I 
wouldve recommended, had AIG not already done so. 
Overall, I think that AIG has complied with the policy terms and conditions, It has recognised 
its error in not telling Mr S that an alternative device would be sent to him and it has offered 
£30 compensation, which I think is fair. Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mr 
S wouldve liked, I wont be asking AIG to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I wont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman