DRN-1716735
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that MYJAR Limited gave him loans that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
Mr G took out two short term loans with MYJAR. Both the loans were repayable by three 
monthly repayments and both have been repaid. Mr Gs loan history is as follows:-
Loan 
number Date of 
LoanLoan amount Repayment date 
1. 16/3/2017 £400 30/6/2017
2. 3/9/2017 £300 24/11/2017
Mr G said that hed taken out MYJARs loans in order to pay existing loans from other 
lenders. He was suffering from stress and depression given the weight of the loans which 
hung over him at the time. He felt that MYJAR didnt check his finances properly.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr G disagreed. He said that hed taken out four other short term loans with other lenders in 
the two months prior to each of his loans with MYJAR. He was struggling to repay his loans 
and had to borrow from other lenders to repay his existing loans. His disposable income at 
the time was only around £60.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
For all of Mr Gs loans the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
MYJAR has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr G. It asked for his income 
and expenses. I note from MYJARs records that it had details of Mr Gs income which was 
£1,400 before Loan 1 and £1,300 before Loan 2. Mr G said he was living with his parents 
and had no housing costs. But he declared credit repayments of £250 before Loan 1 and 
£100 before Loan 2 and other expenses of £50. MYJAR assessed Mr Gs monthly affordable 
amount as around £376 and £321 respectively before Loans 1 and 2. 
I also note that MYJAR carried out a credit check before the loans and have seen a 
summary of these which I will refer to below.
Mr G hasnt provided his credit report to us. The adjudicator asked for this in January 2020. 
So, I cant say there were any entries on the credit report which might have caused the 
lender concern.
But Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report will, and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a consumers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So this may explain any 
differences between the information provided by MYJARs credit checks and Mr Gs actual 
situation.I note Mr G needed to make a highest repayment of £215.73 to repay Loan 1 and £143.53 to 
repay  Loan 2. I can see that the repayments were relatively moderate compared to Mr Gs 
declared income and the monthly affordable amount calculated by MYJAR.  
I can also see that MYJARs credit checks before Loan 1 showed that Mr G hadnt opened 
any new accounts in the previous three months and before Loan 2, he had opened two new 
accounts in the previous three months. I can see that Mr Gs other borrowing might have 
suggested to MYJAR that his finances were under pressure. But overall, I dont think the 
repayment amounts on Loans 1 and 2 were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused 
Mr G financial difficulty.
On balance, I think that the checks MYJAR carried out before agreeing Loans 1 and 2 were 
proportionate. And given Mr Gs repayment amounts for Loans 1 and 2, what was apparent 
about his circumstances at the time, and that these were his first loans with the lender, I 
dont think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
So, I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mr G.
I appreciate that Mr G said that hed taken out other loans with other lenders prior to his 
loans with MYJAR. But for the reasons given above, MYJAR may not have been aware of 
these from its credit checks when Mr G applied for his loans with it. And unless Mr G had 
disclosed his other payday loans when hed asked for his loans from MYJAR, I cant safely 
say that MYJAR would have found out about them with the proportionate checks it carried 
out that I think were reasonable.
So, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing to  
Mr G. Im also sorry to hear his health has been affected by his financial situation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman