DRN-3763273
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc didnt give her notice that the interest free period 
on her credit card account would be ending. She also complains that Santander didnt take a 
Direct Debit which led to charges on her account and theyve discriminated against her.  
What happened
Miss M held a credit card account with Santander. In January 2022 she noticed shed been 
charged interest. As this wasnt something shed paid previously on her account she 
complained about this as well as some charges. 
Santander responded and explained Miss Ms account terms and conditions show she had 
0% interest on purchases for 26 months from the account opening. They said, at the end of 
this period, interest would be charged on any outstanding balances and new purchases. 
They said, Miss Ms account was opened on 16 September 2019, which is why interest has 
been charged. They explained how the interest is calculated and that the monthly 
statements would note the estimated interest for the following month in order to give 
advance notice. 
Santander referred to some of the monthly statements which they said informed Miss M her 
interest free period would be ending in November 2021. In relation to the late payment 
charge, Santander explained theyd set up a Direct Debit, but this wasnt paid and was 
cancelled as a result. They said, as Miss M didnt therefore meet the minimum payment due, 
a late payment charge was applied. 
Miss M says shed made Santander aware previously that she has a learning disability which 
made it difficult to read information on statements. Miss M says, had Santander made it 
clearer to her that the interest free period was coming to an end, she wouldve either cleared 
as much of the balance as she could or she wouldve ensured shed made arrangements to 
cover the interest  and her credit file wouldnt then have an adverse marker against it. 
During our investigation, Santander maintained they hadnt made any errors but, as a 
gesture of goodwill, they offered to refund the £12.97 of purchase interest generated on   
Miss Ms account. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss M. He thought Santanders offer was fair and 
reasonable. Miss M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Santanders offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand 
Miss M will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Interest 
Miss M says she wasnt informed her interest free period was ending. She says she uses her 
online banking feature as its easier to use but this doesnt show any interest and she mainly 
uses this to read her statements as it is in a better format. She says its in a PDF format 
which can be downloaded separately but she says she struggled to find any mention of the 
interest on the PDF version as it wasnt obvious or highlighted. Miss M says, had it been 
made clearer or set out in a separate communication she wouldve made arrangements to 
cover the interest.    
My starting point is Miss Ms signed credit card agreement. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says her account has a promotional rate of 0% interest on purchases for 26 
months from account opening. This is also set out in a key facts document relating to      
Miss Ms account. Both documents explain that interest will apply after the period ends, what 
the interest rate will then be and how it will be calculated. Ive also looked at Miss Ms July 
2021 statement and this estimates next months interest as £0. Further down the statement, 
and after the list of transactions, it says Interest 0.000% to 16-11-2021 The same appears 
in the statements from August through to November. 
Taking this into account, I think Santander have acted in line with the terms and conditions 
by applying interest at the end of the promotional rate period. That said, Miss M says shed 
previously made Santander aware she has a learning disability and is dyslexic, so they 
shouldve sent information in a more suitable format as information about the interest wasnt 
clear and obvious from the statements. 
System information provided by Santander shows they applied a vulnerable customer 
marker to Miss Ms account in September 2019. Its not clear from the information provided 
what specific vulnerability theyd recorded or what reasonable adjustments theyd put in 
place. So, given the information I do have, I believe its more likely than not, the vulnerable 
customer marker applied to Miss Ms account related to her learning disability. So, Ive 
thought about what other communication Miss M received about the promotional period 
beyond just the statements.  
While I understand Miss M says the notification about the end of the promotional period 
wasnt obvious from the statements, she did sign the credit card agreement when she first 
opened her account  and this explains the position with the promotional period. And, I 
believe, by signing this, its reasonable for Santander to take the view that Miss M has read 
and understood the terms and conditions. A declaration immediately above Miss Ms 
signature asks Miss M to contact Santander if theres any parts of the agreement she 
doesnt understand  and I cant see Miss M raised any concerns at the time. 
I accept this was over two years before Miss M started being charged interest and I note 
Miss M says most people would struggle to remember information theyd seen two years 
ago. So, Miss M feels more shouldve been done by Santander to inform her the promotional 
period was coming to an end. 
I do acknowledge this, so, while this shows Santander brought the terms of the promotional 
rate to Miss Ms attention in a different format, Ive looked to see whether there was any 
other more recent communication and around the time the promotional period was due to 
end.  
 
System notes provided by Santander show they sent a text message to Miss Ms mobile in 
October 2021 to say the promotional rate was ending soon. Santander say the exact content 
of the text message isnt retained but their marketing team say it wouldve said Your 
promotional purchase rate ends on 16 November 2021. Interest charged on new and 
outstanding purchase balances will increase to 15.9%. I believe its more likely than not the text message did include this content as the system notes refer to the message highlighting 
the date the promotional period ends and the interest rate which would then apply. 
Miss M says she never received the text message and she changed her number in 
September 2021. The system notes provided by Santander show Miss M registered a 
contact number with them in September and this same number was also present during an 
interaction with Miss M a day before the text message was sent. Santander say, it therefore 
seems logical they wouldve sent the text message to this number. On this basis, and on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think on the balance of probabilities its more likely than not, the text 
message was sent to this number. And, that being the case, I think Santander have notified 
Miss M about the promotional period coming to an end in a format other than just the 
statements and credit card agreement. 
I note Miss M says this number was deactivated on 5 October, but I havent seen any 
information which shows Miss M updated her contact details or communicated this to 
Santander. The system notes show Miss M then updated her details and registered a 
different number in November  which is after the text message was sent. So, Santander 
have sent the text message to the contact number they held for Miss M at the time. I note 
Miss M says she told Santander that a text message is a trigger for her stress so she 
wouldve opted out of receiving text messages. I acknowledge Miss Ms reasons for this, but 
Ive seen no evidence of this having been raised with Santander and their system notes 
dont record any alert, warning or notification about this. 
In any event, I can see that Santander have, as a gesture of goodwill, offered to refund the 
purchase interest of £12.97 and I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Direct Debit
I understand Miss M believes Santander made an error in not taking a Direct Debit for a 
payment in December 2021. This led to charges being applied against Miss Ms account and 
a marker against her credit file. 
The terms and conditions set out the charges that apply in the event of a late payment and 
going over a credit limit. It also explains Santander will report payment defaults to the Credit 
Reference Agencies. The November statement says a minimum payment of £10.52 is due 
by 8 December 2021 and a Direct Debit payment of £50 will be debited on or after 7 
December 2021. The December statement shows a payment of £4 was made by 8 
December and the balance exceeds the credit limit, so a late payment fee and overlimit fee 
is charged. 
I can see Miss M discusses this with Santander as she says there was an error on their part 
in relation to the Direct Debit not being paid. Santander say the Direct Debit was set up from 
their side but when they tried to claim it in December it went unpaid so was therefore 
cancelled. 
Santander say this would usually arise out of there being insufficient funds in the paying 
account or an error with the paying bank. Santander have provided system notes which 
show their Direct Debit request in December was returned unpaid.
Im further persuaded this was the case as Miss M has provided a copy of her bank 
statement and this shows a payment of £46 out to Santander on 7 December. It also says 
this is a new Direct Debit payment. The next entry on the statement shows the £46 payment 
credited back into Miss Ms account with a note saying, Unpaid Direct Debit. I acknowledge 
Miss Ms point that her bank statement shows there were sufficient funds in her bank 
account but this shows a Direct Debit request was made by Santander but the amount 
wasnt paid  so I cant say there has been an error here by Santander.     I am sorry to hear about the impact the charges had on Miss M, but I cant say theres been 
an error by Santander here. Theyve acted in line with the terms and conditions in taking the 
action they have and Ive seen no evidence they didnt set up the Direct Debit or that they 
cancelled it without making a request for payment. 
Discrimination
Miss M says Santander have acted in a discriminatory manner towards her. She says 
Santander should set up facilities to help customers with disabilities. 
Santander say, whilst they dont feel they couldve done more in this case to make Miss M 
aware that her promotional period was coming to an end, they confirm they do their best to 
assist customers with disabilities and make reasonable adjustments, wherever possible.
They say one of the ways of assisting customers are the Customer Care flags that they 
introduced some time ago. They say they can also set up Alerts for vulnerable customers 
with their consent, if they require any special assistance over a temporary period, or long 
term. And, if a customer needs further assistance, they can also visit their local Santander 
branch, or phone them.
Given the basis on which Miss M feels Santander have discriminated against her, Ive gone 
further to consider whether Santander failed to make reasonable adjustments for her. In 
other words, have failed their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 
2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that 
its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and 
reasonable. 
In this case, I can see Santander did record a customer vulnerability marker. And, while the 
information doesnt show what, if any, reasonable adjustments were required and applied, 
they did communicate with Miss M to notify her of the promotional period coming to an end 
in a format beyond just the statements. So, I cant say Santander havent taken appropriate 
steps to acknowledge Miss Ms learning disabilities or failed to consider any reasonable 
adjustments. I note Miss M feels staff at Santander have shown a lack of consideration for 
Miss Ms learning disabilities. Ive seen the in-app chat discussions between Miss M and 
Santander where Miss M has raised her concerns about the interest and Direct Debit. The 
Santander agents have tried to help by responding to Miss Ms queries, but I cant see 
theyve acted in a discriminatory way or treated her in a way they wouldnt have done with 
any other customer because of Miss Ms learning disabilities. 
Miss M says she feels Santander have discriminated against her given the problems she has 
experienced. I can understand why Miss M feels this way but having looked at all the 
evidence I dont think Santander have done so. Nor do I think Santander have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Miss M to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into her concerns.
I understand Miss M will be disappointed, and I acknowledge her reasons for why she 
believes Santander have made errors. I wish to reassure Miss M Ive read and considered 
everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, 
it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
Santander UK Plc have already made an offer to refund the purchase interest of £12.97 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So my decision is that Santander UK Plc should refund the £12.97 to Miss M, if they havent 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman