DRN-4097391
The complaint
Ms S complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank lent to 
her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms S applied for a loan with M&S in May 2021. M&S approved the application and gave Ms 
S a loan for £13,000 over a term of 60 months with monthly repayments of £255.51.
Ms S complained that M&S had lent to her irresponsibly. She said the loan was unaffordable 
because she was on benefits. 
M&S didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out the correct affordability checks. 
Ms S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that M&S shouldve carried out additional 
checks to make sure the loan was affordable for Ms S.
M&S didnt agree. It said it thought Ms Ss financial circumstances had changed after the 
loan was approved and that it wouldnt have been able to foresee this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is set out on our 
website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Ms Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that M&S had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Ms S could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable 
way. These affordability checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. 
The nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary, depending on 
various factors including the amount of credit, the amount of repayments, the cost of credit 
and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
M&S Bank obtained information about Ms Ss income and attempted to verify this using a 
consumer credit tool. M&S has said it wasnt able to verify Ms Ss income in this way, so it 
asked to speak to her about her income. M&S said that Ms S declared an income of £21,000 
all of which was derived from benefits, and credit repayments of £460 per month. M&S said 
that Ms S told them she intended to consolidate her existing credit commitments with the 
loan, so that her credit repayments would reduce.
The credit information obtained by M&S showed that Ms S had existing consumer credit 
liabilities of around £9000. Around £3000 of this had come about as a result of loans Ms S 
had taken out in 2020.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by M&S were reasonable and 
proportionate. On balance, I dont think they were. I say this for the following reasons:
Although M&S spoke to Ms S to obtain information about her income, based on what Ive 
seen, it didnt obtain detailed information about her expenditure. Given the size of the loan 
and the length of the term, I wouldve expected M&S to obtain more detailed information 
about Ms Ss income and expenditure.
I also think that the recent loans taken out by Ms S in 2020 shouldve given M&S cause for 
concern and prompted it to obtain further information about Ms Ss reliance on credit. I 
appreciate that Ms S said that she intended to consolidate her exiting debt, but there was no 
guarantee that she would do this and if she didnt, her monthly credit repayments wouldve 
exceeded 25% of her monthly income. Its generally the case that consumers who are using 
more than 25% of their monthly income to repay debt are more likely to struggle to repay 
debt in the future.
The fact that Ms S told M&S that she intended to consolidate her existing borrowing 
shouldve given cause for concern, as it suggests that affordability of existing consumer debt 
was a factor in Ms Ss overall financial circumstances.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think M&S carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. More detailed checks were needed to make sure the loan was 
affordable for Ms S. Had these been carried out, I think M&S wouldve concluded that Ms S 
was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan.
Putting things right
To put things right, M&S should refund all the interest and charges Ms S has paid on the 
loan. It should also remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ss credit file. 
Therefore, M&S should:
Add up the total amount of money Ms S received as a result of having been given her loan. 
The repayments Ms S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms S having paid more than they received, any overpayments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, M&S should arrange an affordable payment plan 
with Ms S
Remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ss credit file relating to the loan
HMRC requires M&S to deduct tax from the interest. M&S must give Ms S a certificate 
showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc 
trading as M&S Bank must take the steps Ive set out above,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman