The complaint
Miss A complains that EUI Limited has backtracked on what it told her in a previous 
complaint and that this has affected her premium on renewal of her policy. 
What happened
EUI agreed in a previous complaint that it shouldn't have paid some damage to a third party. 
It advised Miss A that it would not rate on this at her next renewal. Miss A took this to mean 
the entire claim wouldn't be taken into consideration. But when she renewed her premium 
increased significantly. She complained to EUI and it said the original complaint resolution 
hadn't been explained in enough detail. Even so it would still take into account the fact there 
had been a claim regardless of its cost. It offered Miss A £75 compensation..
Miss A remains unhappy about this and says its unfair. She thinks she shouldn't be rated on 
the claim on renewal as EUI previously agreed and the increase in her premium is 
unreasonable.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldn't be upheld. He said:
In the original complaint EUI said although it had paid costs incorrectly it will not rate
on this upon renewal. EUI says this was intended to mean the cost of the claim
wouldn't be rated on at renewal. It's apologised for not being clear enough and
offered £75 compensation for this. That's fair and reasonable.
This statement should've been clarified including in a phone call. But he can't agree
with Miss A that the claim shouldn't be rated on renewal. EUI would never have been
able to discount the entire claim.
Having considered commercially sensitive evidence from EUI he's satisfied it has
correctly calculated the renewal premium and Miss A has been treated the same as
any other customer in similar position. EUI has acted fairly.
Miss A remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.She says she should be 
rated independently not by how others drive on the road.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A says EUI said the entire claim wouldn't be taken into account on renewal. But I'm 
afraid I can't agree as it actually said it will not rate on the incorrectly paid costs in the claim 
when the policy is renewed. That isn't the same as agreeing to discount the fact the claim 
had happened. And I think EUI would have to take the claim into account however much as 
paid out in it. To do so is fair and reasonable.DRN-1135067
EUI rightly accepts it could've been clearer in explaining things including in a call. And its 
offered £75 compensation for this. Taking everything into account, including the level of 
awards we make, I think that's fair.
EUI has also demonstrated to us that it correctly calculated Miss A's renewal premium in line 
with its usual underwriting criteria. That's reasonable.
Overall although i recognise Miss A's strength of feeling and frustration, I don't think I can 
fairly or reasonably require EUI to totally discount the claim when calculating the renewal 
premium or pay her any more compensation.
I simply leave it to Miss A to decide, if she hasn't done so already, whether she now wishes 
to accept EUI's offer of £75 compensation.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman