DRN-2482889
The complaint
Mr R complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited caused his car insurance policy to 
be cancelled.
What happened
Mr R has a car insurance policy underwritten by another company but brokered and 
administered by Hastings. His complaint is about what happened when he contacted 
Hastings to renew his policy.
Mr R called Hastings in December 2019 to renew his policy. He says all appeared to go 
smoothly and he was assured at the end of the call that his policy would be renewed, 
starting from the relevant date.
In August 2020, Mr R says he discovered his policy had been cancelled  in February 2020. 
So hed been unknowingly driving without insurance for several months. 
When he raised this with Hastings, they said the payment he made at renewal had failed. 
They said theyd tried to contact him about this but without any response and so had caused 
the policy to be cancelled (by the insurer).
Mr R complained to Hastings. He said after hed renewed, he hadnt received any 
communications from them to say there had been an issue with the payment, or to warn him 
the policy would be cancelled unless he paid the premium.
Hastings admitted theyd failed to update Mr Rs postal address. Hed told them about his 
change of address when he made the call to renew the policy. This meant Mr R hadnt 
received letters from them about the failed payment. 
Hastings apologised for their error and offered Mr R £100 in compensation for his trouble 
and upset.
Mr R didnt think Hastings had done enough to resolve his complaint, so he brought it to us. 
Hes concerned that Hastings error left him to drive uninsured for several months without 
knowing that he wasnt insured. 
Mr R doesnt want it to be on record that he drove uninsured. And hes concerned that hell 
be forced to disclose to potential future insurers that hes had a policy cancelled. 
So, he wants Hastings to ensure that the insurer in effect re-instates the policy between 
February and August 2020. Mr R bought a new policy through Hastings soon after he found 
out about the cancellation.
Our investigator looked into and didnt think Hastings had done anything wrong. She felt the 
£100 they offered Mr R was sufficient compensation for their error. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Hastings made an error and didnt properly record Mr Rs new 
address when he renewed his policy. And theres no dispute that meant the policy 
documents were sent to the wrong address  as were the letters about the non-payment and 
the cancellation.
Hastings have accepted their error and offered compensation. So, I have to decide whether 
they need to do more. And that will depend on whether their error led directly and inevitably 
to Mr R having his policy cancelled and driving whilst uninsured. 
I know Mr R will be disappointed, but I dont think that error did inevitably lead to him driving 
without insurance or having his policy cancelled. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the renewal call. At one point, the agent asks Mr R whether he wants to make 
payment using the card details Hastings already have or using a different card. Mr R says 
they should use the card already on their system. The agent is clear that she cant see the 
card number in full or the expiry date, for security reasons.
Mr R tells us his card expired within the year prior to the call. Hastings would have had his 
card details from the previous year (December 2018). So, its safe to assume Mr R tried to 
pay using an expired card. 
The mistake is understandable, but it is Mr Rs mistake. The agent had made it clear she 
couldnt see the card number or expiry date, so the onus was on Mr R to decide whether to 
use that card.
If Mr R had used his current card, the payment would have gone through  he tells us he 
had the funds in his account. And the policy wouldnt have been cancelled.
At the end of that call, the agent asks Mr R to check the renewal documents when he 
receives them and inform Hastings if anything has changed. Mr R never received the 
renewal documents by post. But he didnt then chase Hastings about where they were. If he 
had, the mistake with the address would have become apparent  and the policy would 
never have been cancelled.
 
I should be clear, Im not saying Mr R had an obligation to check Hastings has got his 
address right. Im saying he had an obligation to check his renewal documents for accuracy. 
And so, he should have been aware he hadnt received them.
Hastings also sent the renewal documents  and the communications prior to cancellation  
by email. Mr R says he couldnt access his emails on that address at that time. But that was 
the email address hed given to Hastings. And he didnt update them when it wasnt working.
Hastings have said Mr Rs preference was for email communication. Theyve sent us copies 
of screens in their database which say this. Mr R says he cant recall ever expressing that 
preference. I dont think it matters whether it was Mr Rs preference or not. He gave them 
email details. In the absence of any update, I dont think its unfair for Hastings to assume 
that email address would still be working.Mr Rs policy details were also available through Hastings on-line portal. If hed checked 
there, hed have realised his payment had failed and/or that the renewal documents hadnt 
arrived by post.
Finally, Mr R didnt notice that the not insubstantial yearly payment hadnt gone out of his 
bank account. If he had, he would have followed it up and it would have become apparent 
that the payment hadnt gone through. Alternative arrangements would then have been 
made, the payment would have been transferred. And the policy would never have been 
cancelled.
In summary, there were around six different things that all had to go wrong to bring about the 
situation where Mr Rs policy was cancelled. That happened because: the postal address 
was wrong; the payment card was expired; the email address wasnt working; the on-line 
portal wasnt checked; there was no follow-up when the renewal documents didnt arrive; 
and Mr R didnt notice the payment hadnt gone from his account. 
Hastings are responsible for one of those factors. In that context, it wouldnt be justifiable for 
me to hold Hastings responsible for the cancellation of the policy and the repercussions of 
that.
I bear in mind particularly that Hastings processes and systems  alone and in themselves - 
have a number of checking mechanisms built in to them which would guard against this kind 
of occurrence. 
The communications to the customer after a policy is bought or renewed go via three 
different channels  post, email and on-line portal. And customers are asked very clearly and 
very specifically to check the policy documents once they arrive.
Its also clear from listening to the renewal call in this case, that Hastings agents are 
instructed to tell the customer they cant see the pre-existing card details on their system. 
So, the responsibility for paying with a current card is very clearly with the customer.
Those failsafe mechanisms all failed for reasons outside Hastings control. And taking all of 
that into account, Im not going to ask Hastings to do anything more for Mr R in this case.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman