DRN-3752388
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Western Provident Association Limiteds (WPA) decision to stop 
funding his cancer treatment. 
What happened
Mr M was unfortunately diagnosed with chronic myeloid leukaemia in 2008. He made a claim 
on his policy which was accepted and WPA began covering the cost of his treatment with a 
drug called Imatinib. WPA covered Mr Ms treatment costs for approximately 10 years 
however, from 2012, WPA said the treatment was no longer covered under his policy. 
Despite that, WPA continued to pay for his treatment, on a discretionary basis, until February 
2018. Mr M would like WPA to continue to pay for his treatment. He has been receiving 
treatment on the NHS since September 2018 and is being treated with the same medication. 
WPA said it stopped paying his claim because the drug used to treat Mr Ms condition was 
readily available on the NHS. It also said that it considered Mr Ms condition to be in 
remission. WPA also highlighted that its policy terms no longer provide cover in these 
circumstances and that its continued cover was provided on a discretionary basis. 
Our investigator agreed that WPA had stopped paying Mr Ms claim fairly. She explained 
that Mr Ms oncologist provided a letter in November 2017, suggesting Mr Ms condition was 
in remission and so she felt, on that basis, there was enough persuasive medical evidence 
to stop paying his claim.
Mr M disagreed. He said he took the policy out in 2008 and cover was initially provided for 
his condition and that cover should continue to be met and his claim should be considered 
under those terms. Mr M also asserted he is not in remission and so strongly objects to 
WPAs claims surrounding that. And so, its now for me to decide whether WPA should 
reinstate his claim.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator. Im satisfied WPA stopped Mr Ms claim fairly because 
he no longer met the policy terms. Im also satisfied WPA applied the correct policy terms to 
make its decision to cease liability. Ill explain why. 
Its within WPAs remit to make commercially based decisions about the type of cover it 
wants to offer consumers. I dont see any issue with this as its in line with good industry 
practice  thats to say its not unusual for insurers to review policy terms and make changes 
WPA, from 2012, reduced the scope of cover on Mr Ms policy and decided it would no 
longer cover his treatment. However, despite this, WPA continued to provide cover for Mr 
Ms treatment on a discretionary basis. WPA didnt need to do this and so because it went 
beyond expectation here, I dont think its treated Mr M unfairly. And because this was a 
commercially based decision, I dont think its fair to hold, or instruct, WPA to continue to do 
this. This was a discretionary decision and therefore its not obligated to continue to cover 
those costs. 
Ive carefully considered WPAs policy terms and its obligations under the Insurance Code of 
Business sourcebook (ICOBS) to ensure its fairly stopped paying Mr Ms claim in February 
2018. To be clear, the terms say;
We will pay for a course of treatment with Targeted/Biological Therapies for cancer, as per 
the EMA product licence. This will be for active treatment and not for maintenance of 
remission, subject to expert advice from your oncologist that there is evidence of continuing 
disease and clinical benefit and the drug continues to be given with curative intent; for blood 
cancers, for example leukaemia, it is more difficult to find objective evidence that cancer is 
no longer present In these cases we will fund up to 12 months treatment with 
Targeted/Biological Therapies and we will extend this subject to expert advice from your 
oncologist that there is evidence of continuing disease and clinical benefit and that the drug 
continues to be given with curative intent 
ICOBS also says that insurers must not stop a claim unfairly. 
In November 2017, Mr Ms oncologist wrote to WPA explaining that Mr Ms condition had 
improved, and hes responded well to treatment with Imatinib. WPA received this letter in 
February 2018 and this prompted it to reconsider Mr Ms claim. It wrote to Mr M explaining it 
would be withdrawing cover because it considered Mr M was in remission. I understand that 
Mr M has disputed this and has said hes not in remission. He also challenged the validity of 
the oncologists letter suggesting it should be given less weight because its not written by a 
suitably qualified professional. Mr M said the appropriate specialist is a haematologist. 
I understand the connection Mr M is attempting to make here, but Im not persuaded by it. I 
say that because Im satisfied that Mr Ms oncologist is a suitably qualified professional and 
has been responsible for Mr Ms care since 2015. Therefore, Im more persuaded by his 
testimony rather than Mr Ms. Further, the policy terms say WPA will consider the testimony 
of an oncologist and so I think its fair for  to apply weight the November 2017 letter, and all 
subsequent letters that suggest Mr Ms condition has improved to a point where it considers 
Mr M to be in remission. I thought it helpful to also highlight a letter from another specialist, 
who is also a professor of haematology, dated June 2016 which says;
The patient is in cytogenetic remission of chronic phase disease with a deep molecular 
response  
Additionally, the same specialist in April 2016 said;
I have reviewed this patient on 3 occasions over the past 6 months on 12/11/2015, 
14/01/2016 and 10/03/2016. He is a patient with chronic myeloid leukaemia who is currently 
being treated with Imatinib 400mg daily. He is currently asymptomatic on this treatment and 
his blood count was normal at his last clinic visit. His QPCR for the BCR-ABL transcript was 
low level positive at 0.22%
When last checked in March 2016.I have advised him to continue on this medication and we 
will plan to review him back in clinic on 18th May 2016.
In summary this patient has an ongoing response to Imatinib and I have advised him to 
continue with this medication And this appears to have continued as in March 2018 the same professor said;
This patient continues to have a good response to Imatinib with ongoing measurable 
minimal residual disease. I have explained to him that in some cases the Imatinib treatment 
can be stopped but the level of minimal residual disease needs to be 0 for a least 2 years 
before this treatment is discontinued
In September 2018, the specialist said;
This patient remains well and not terminally ill. He is in haematological and cytogenetic 
remission but is not in molecular remission having only a major molecular response. He will 
therefore need to keep taking the Imatinib at a dose of 400mg daily. As long as he takes 
these tablets on a regular basis he is likely to remain in haematological remission and have 
a normal life span
I think its reasonable for WPA to rely on the medical evidence in the way that it has because 
the specialists have suggested Mr M is in remission and that his remission is maintained by 
continuing the Imatinib. Ive also seen evidence which suggests that around half of patients 
that stop taking the drug can redevelop the condition and so I do understand Mr Ms anxiety 
about the funding being withdrawn by WPA. And so, I thought carefully about the other 
remaining terms and I note it wont pay for treatment thats readily available on the NHS. 
The drug, Imatinib, is also available on the NHS and so I agree with WPAs argument that Mr 
M could have continued his treatment there as his policy doesnt provide cover where that 
option is available. The policy provides cover for targeted/biological therapies (advance 
therapeutics) when they are given in the active stage of cancer and when the drug is not 
readily available on the NHS. I say that because the policy says;
Cover can be provided if; 
Your oncologist confirms that they would not be readily available to you as an NHS patient
Ive not seen any other persuasive evidence that successfully challenges this term. 
The relevant policy terms that apply in this case are the 2016 terms. Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence that leads me to conclude that Mr M has been treated unfairly in the 
circumstances because WPA acted in accordance with its terms. It couldve ended Mr Ms 
claim sooner than it did, but I not it continued to pay it on a discretionary basis and so I dont 
think itd be fair to continue to hold it to that indefinitely. For the purposes of this decision, Im 
satisfied WPA withdrew its discretionary cover once Mr M achieved haematological 
remission, when it couldve done so earlier, had it acted in accordance with its policy terms. 
Its for these reasons Im not asking WPA to take any further action.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman