DRN-3290230
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Santander UK Plcs actions when closing their bank account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S held an account with Santander. Around late 2020, Santander asked Mr and 
Mrs S for information relating to Know Your Customer (KYC) checks.
At first, Mr S ignored the request  until he received a chaser for information, and he went 
into branch and supplied Santander with the information theyd asked for. 
On 5 March 2021, Santander made the decision to close Mr and Mrs Ss account. They 
wrote to Mr and Mrs S and advised their account would be closed immediately  however Mr 
and Mrs S said they didnt receive this notification from Santander until later in the month. Mr 
and Mrs S say they couldnt access their online banking, bank account, or the money in it at 
all. Mr S said this caused particular issues as he was unable to manage his direct debits and 
standing orders. Mr and Mrs S had to borrow money from family to get them through the 
period where they didnt have access to their money.
Around 18 March 2021, Mr and Mrs S received a cheque from Santander with the full 
balance of the account.
While this situation was ongoing, Mrs Ss health started to deteriorate. Mr and Mrs S would 
like £10,000 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience this overall situation 
has caused.
Our investigator reviewed things and upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. She thought 
Santander should have given Mr and Mrs S two months notice to close the account  
instead of an immediate closure. She asked them to pay Mr and Mrs S £350 compensation.
Santander agreed with our investigators view. Mr and Mrs S didnt  they thought more 
compensation was warranted. Mr S has supplied medical information to show that Mrs Ss 
health concerns were exacerbated by stress  and specifically as she didnt have access to 
her bank account. Mr S said he has lost money from work due to having to take time off to 
open a new bank account and take Mrs S to her medical appointments. Mr S thinks this 
could have been avoided if Santander had asked him for extra information as part of the 
KYC checks if they werent satisfied by something or given them notice to close the account 
like they should have.
Our investigator still thought £350 compensation was a fair amount to reflect what had 
happened. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Santander should pay compensation to Mr and Mrs S to put things 
right. Ive explained further below.
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
In order for me to be satisfied that Santanders actions were appropriate in the 
circumstances, Id need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and what actions 
they took during the review. Santander hasnt shared that level of detail with our service, so I 
cant confidently say their actions were reasonable. 
Following their review, Santander decided to end their relationship with Mr and Mrs S. Banks 
sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of 
reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer  only to meet the 
account closure terms and conditions. Just the same as if Mr and Mrs S decided to stop 
banking with Santander, they wouldnt have to explain why. Santander can only close 
accounts in certain circumstances and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Santander have relied on and complied with the terms and conditions when closing Mr and 
Mrs Ss account  however I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me that they were able 
to close it without notice. Based on the information which has been shared with our service, I 
can only reasonably agree that the full two months notice should have been given.  
I recognise Mr and Mrs S was without their money for a period of around two weeks  from 
the first block on 5 March 2021 up to when they received the cheque with the balance from 
their account around 18 March 2021. Ive no doubt this would have been a really worrying 
time for Mr and Mrs S, and it likely would have put them in a financially challenging position 
because they didnt have access to their money. But a bank cant always guarantee that 
funds in an account will be readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with 
which they have to comply. While we dont specify how long an account review should take, 
Im satisfied that Santander didnt cause any unnecessary delays as Mr and Mrs S had 
access to their money within a couple of weeks.
Im really sorry to hear of the health complications Mrs S has faced. I recognise the effects of 
this will be ongoing for her and Mr S and dont doubt this must be a really difficult time for 
them both. Ive thought carefully on whether I can reasonably hold Santander responsible  
and if so, what the appropriate level of compensation would be. I know this will be really hard 
for Mr and Mrs S to accept, but I cant fairly hold Santander wholly responsible for whats 
happened in regard to Mrs Ss health. I say that because, Santander have an obligation to 
review their customers accounts. They did that  and following their review, decided to end 
their banking relationship with Mr and Mrs S. While I think Santander ought to have given Mr 
and Mrs S two months notice of their intention to close the account, I dont think it would 
have made an overall difference to Mrs Ss health. While I appreciate Mrs Ss doctor has 
confirmed the exacerbation in her symptoms was likely due to stress; in order to uphold the 
complaint on this point, Id need to be satisfied that Santander did something wrong  and 
those errors would have made a material difference. If Mr and Mrs S had been given two 
months notice of their closure, while they would have been able to manage their direct 
debits more effectively, they would have still found themselves without their Santander bank 
account and needing to open another one. Im really pleased Mr and Mrs S were able to 
borrow money from family to help them through the two weeks or so they didnt have access 
to their funds. I also havent seen any evidence of any direct debit payments being missed 
which resulted in subsequent financial stress. Mrs Ss condition is a neurological symptom, 
and while her doctor has commented that Santanders actions are likely to have been the precipitating factor in the escalation of her symptoms, I havent seen any compelling 
evidence to satisfy me thats the overall cause. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs S would like around £10,000 compensation for the overall upset of 
this situation. Ive very carefully considered everything that both parties have said around 
whats happened, and having done so, I agree with our investigator that £350 is fair and 
reasonable. I wont be asking for Santander to pay more, as even if theyd given two months 
notice, I still find Mr S would have had to open a new bank account, and I still believe Mrs S 
would have found herself with the health condition she has. No amount of money can 
change what Mrs S is now facing but it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Santander responsible 
for that based on the full circumstances of this complaint. Its also useful to confirm that 
were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish a business, that means our 
awards cant be punitive.
Putting things right
Overall, Im satisfied, based on the information Ive received from both parties, that 
Santander reviewed Mr and Mrs Ss account correctly; but I find they should have given two 
months notice of their intention to close it. For around two weeks, Mr and Mrs S were 
affected by having no access to the money held in their Santander account. Mr S also had to 
take time off work to open a new bank account, and aid Mrs S to important medical 
appointments.
Ive explained why I consider Mr S would have still had to open a new bank account, and 
why I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for Mrs Ss medical appointments. So, having 
considered everything, Im satisfied £350 is fair and reasonable in recognition of the distress 
that was caused to Mr and Mrs S by not having two months notice of their account closing. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Santander UK 
Plc, should pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman