DRN-3818765
The complaint
Mr H complains that his Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) pension fund fell 
significantly in value during 2022, despite being in low-risk investments and he was unable 
to contact it on the telephone to make changes. He would like compensation for his losses. 
What happened
Mr H says the value of his pension plan fell from around £200,000 to £150,000 between 
January and June 2022. He says he was faced by long waiting times when he tried to 
contact Scottish Widows by telephone. Mr H complained saying he was in lower risk funds, 
and it should have done something to prevent the losses and advise him what was 
happening.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint. It said there were no guarantees about 
investment performance and the fund value could fall as well as rise. It said the war in 
Ukraine and other factors like Covid had directly impacted investment markets and there 
was still an element of risk with less riskier funds. It said it was required to issue an annual 
statement which it had done, and it was Mr Hs responsibility to keep track of the 
investments between these statements. It said he could switch investment funds if required. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it.
She said our service couldnt consider complaints about the performance of particular funds. 
But that any investment carried some element of risk unless specifically guaranteed, which 
wasnt the case here. She said nothing in the annual statements sent to Mr H had identified 
the investments as being risk free. These had shown the value of the investment fluctuating, 
so Mr H was aware the value could fall or rise in line with investment market conditions.  
Mr H said he didnt agree Scottish Widows had no responsibility to as it hadnt alerted him to 
the disastrous performance. And that it had made it almost impossible to contact  over a 
6 month period. And he said it should have been:
competent enough to shift Funds around an invest in less volatile Companies. Doing 
nothing is what appeared to happen. 
He said it had subsequently apologised for the difficulty in contacting it and it had paid £50 in 
compensation which was a real insult because if it had answered he might have been able 
to avoid a large part of the £50k I lost during that period. He also said that as he was 70 
years old in January 2022, he understood that Scottish Widows would automatically shift his 
fund into one with the least risk as he approached pension age, but this hadnt happened, so 
it hadnt followed its terms and conditions (T&Cs).  
Our investigator said Scottish Widows had confirmed that the plan had been switched to 
lower risk funds under a lifestyle approach selected by Mr H. And this had been completed 
by his age 65, which was the original retirement age of the plan. It said his investments were 
held in the Cash fund and the Pension Protector fund. It said this information was confirmed 
in the annual statements sent. And it said it had written to Mr H when he didnt take his 
benefits at age 65 advising the selected retirement age had been automatically reset to age 
75. Our investigator said Scottish Widows appeared to have followed the T&Cs correctly 
and she didnt think it had made an error. 
As Mr H doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I sympathise with Mr H over his losses, but Scottish Widows wasnt providing him with 
advice, and I havent seen any evidence that it has made any error. 
Mr Hs investment had been split between two funds since he reached age 65 when the 
lifestyle switching had been completed. This option was selected when Mr H joined the plan. 
The objective was to reduce risk in anticipation of him purchasing an annuity when he 
reached age 65. There is no evidence Scottish Widows hadnt completed this process 
correctly. And I can see from the information it sent Mr H when he was 65 and from the 
annual statements that it recommended he take advice about his arrangement and review 
the investments held to check these remained appropriate.
 
The annual statements provided links to more information about Scottish Widows 
investment approaches and funds. It also explained that it was possible to switch investment 
funds by calling or writing. The statements also provided a breakdown of each fund held and 
in what category Scottish Widows consider them to sit in terms of risk. The Cash fund was 
categorised as Cautious.  And the Pension Protector fund, which held most of the 
investment, is described as Balanced.
The risks relating to Balanced funds are set out as follows:
These investments carry a risk of loss to capital value but have the potential for 
capital growth and/or income over the medium to long-term. Typically they do not 
have any guarantees and will fluctuate in capital value.
It continues:
These investment approaches are based on Scottish Widows' opinion only. They 
should not be taken as advice on whether or not a fund is suitable for you. We 
recommend you speak to a financial adviser
From this information it is clear that the funds werent risk free and that investment decisions 
were Mr Hs responsibility. Specific information about each fund was available separately 
under the links given in the statements. These further explained the risks of each and how 
they invested. Similar warnings are repeated elsewhere in the statement, so I think this 
information was clearly communicated. 
There is no requirement for Scottish Widows to provide valuation information than frequently 
than annually. And as Mr H has noted he knew his investment was falling at the time he says 
he was struggling to contact Scottish Widows by telephone. This suggests he had access to 
valuation or fund price information to know this. And, he did have the option of writing to Scottish Widows or contacting it through its website if he was having problems on the 
telephone. 
Whilst our service cant consider complaints specifically about investment performance the 
Pensions Protector fund fact sheet dated 31 July 2022 shows that the returns in the various 
time periods from August 2017 to July 2022 were similar to the sector benchmark of 
comparable funds. 
The funds investment mandate was that at least 80% of the Fund will invest in long dated 
Sterling denominated investment grade corporate bonds. Concerns about Worldwide 
economic growth, rising inflation and rising interest rates meant investor sentiment changed 
rapidly from around December 2021, with a systemic, negative impact on corporate bond 
prices. So, I think it is unlikely that the fund manager could have identified alternative 
holdings within that mandate which wouldnt have experienced some fall in value. 
Mr H has raised a separate complaint with Scottish Widows about difficulties he had 
contacting it by telephone, but Im not considering that complaint here. If he isnt happy with 
how it resolved this other complaint, he may be able to refer it to our service. 
But in respect of this complaint Scottish Widows wasnt providing Mr H with advice. Its 
communications to him suggested he review his investment choices to see if these were 
appropriate and that he should take advice if he was unsure. And there was no requirement 
for it to update him on the performance of his plan other than annually. That means I dont 
think it has treated him unfairly or unreasonably, so I cant uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman