DRN-3474870
The complaint
Mr S complains about the standard of repairs to his car following an accident. The repairs 
were carried out on behalf of Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) so the complaint 
is against Admiral.
What happened
Mr S had motor insurance with Admiral. His car was damaged in an accident and was taken 
to a repair company as advised by Admiral. Mr S says that soon after the car was returned 
to him, he noticed the steering wasnt right and took the car back to the repair company. The 
repair company said there wasnt anything wrong, but Mr S still wasnt happy. Mr S says he 
was worried about his safety when driving the car, so he contacted the repair company once 
again and the car went in for repair. Mr S says he was told that a bolt in the steering column 
was fastened but he wasnt given an invoice for this as there was no charge. Mr S says the 
steering seemed better, but he could still hear a noise when turning.
A few months later Mr S took the car to the dealership for its annual service. The dealership 
identified a problem with the power steering which wasnt covered by the cars warranty as it 
was in the area of the repair. Mr S says he contacted the repair company again but was told 
it was in administration and he should contact Admiral. Mr S complained to Admiral about 
the repair. Admiral agreed to pay for diagnostic tests at the dealership. The dealership 
advised that the power steering issue couldnt be rectified and a part needed replacing, 
which should have been done as part of the original repair.
The dealership recommended replacing the part and then further testing to see if the 
problem was resolved. If not, the steering column would need replacing. Admiral said this 
wasnt a formal diagnosis, and the dealership had initially found no problem with the steering 
when it carried out checks for the repair company after the initial repair. Admiral said the 
issues must have occurred after the repairs were done. 
Mr S decided to pay to replace the part as recommended by the dealership. Unfortunately 
this didnt fix the problem with the power steering. The dealership carried out further 
investigations and said the steering rack had been installed in an incorrect position and a 
part was missing. Admiral didnt accept that there had been a problem with the initial repair. 
Mr S also provided an email from the dealership confirming diagnostic tests showed a fault 
with the steering was present when the car went for its service, and the fault was stored at 
the same mileage as the accident.
Mr S then paid for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineer said there was 
irregular wear to both front tyres, the steering was heavy and a sound could be heard from 
the steering column when the wheel was turned, which needed further investigation. The 
engineer also identified that the central positioning of the steering wheel was slightly out.
The engineer concluded that as he couldnt access every part of the steering system, the 
dealerships findings must be accepted due to their knowledge and specialist diagnostic 
equipment. He said it would be necessary to align the steering column with the steering rack 
and that a new rack might be required if the bolt was missing. The engineer said that the 
repair companys invoice following the initial repair stated that the steering geometry was 
checked but no adjustment was necessary. 
The engineer said:
Adjustments would have been required to the suspension/steering due to the level of 
damage the vehicle sustained. The incorrect fitting of the steering rack has caused more 
than one issue. 
In response, Admiral said its engineer looked at the report and it was clear that the 
independent engineer had only limited access to the relevant parts of the car. Admiral said 
again that the diagnostic tests carried out after the initial repairs confirmed no issue with the 
steering. Admiral said there must have been another incident since the initial repairs which 
caused the problem. Admiral agreed that adjustments would have been needed to the 
suspension/steering following the repairs, but said there was no evidence the steering rack 
was incorrectly fitted. 
Mr S says he needed to get the steering rack replaced so his car would pass its MOT test. 
He says following these repairs the problems with the car were gone.
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint on the basis of the 
independent engineers report and what the dealership had said. She said Admiral should 
meet the full cost of the repairs needed to put the steering issues right, and reimburse Mr S 
for the repairs he had already paid for plus the diagnostic tests at the dealership and the 
independent engineers report. Our investigator said Admiral should also pay Mr S £200 for 
his trouble and upset.
Admiral didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr S wants Admiral to acknowledge that the initial repairs werent carried out properly. He 
wants the errors put right at no cost to him, and compensation for the expenses he has 
incurred and for his time and the disruption to his work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I have issued two provisional decisions in this case. On 25 January 2022 I issued the first 
provisional decision. This provisional decision said:
I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Im not an engineer. Its not my role to decide how the problems with Mr Ss car were caused 
or whether the repairs were carried out properly. My role is to decide whether Admiral acted 
fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mr Ss claim.
Admiral said that the dealership carried out checks on the steering following the initial repairs 
and found no problems, but Admiral has not provided any report in relation to this. Both the 
independent engineer and Admiral say adjustments would have been needed following 
damage and repairs of this nature, but no such adjustments were made. When the car was 
serviced some months after the accident, the diagnostic tests showed a fault with the steering which had apparently been present since the accident.
It is of note that Mr S took the car back to the repair company within a few weeks of the initial 
repairs, saying the steering wasnt right. He took it back again and the repair company did 
something which improved things slightly, and didnt charge him. Admiral said there must 
have been another incident after the car was first returned to Mr S but it has provided no 
evidence of any such incident or damage. Mr S says there was no other incident.
The dealership and the independent engineer both identified a problem with the alignment of 
the steering rack. When the steering rack was replaced the issues with the car resolved.
So I dont think Admiral has acted fairly or reasonably in dealing with Mr Ss claim, and I 
think it needs to put things right.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I intend to require Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
to refund Mr S £5392.43 which is made up as follows, plus interest
Initial repairs at dealership £953.53
Independent engineers report £199
£100 for the further diagnostic tests done by the dealership
Replace steering rack £3569.90
Two new front tyres £570 (estimated) as the independent engineer identified irregular 
wear to them
Mr S has had to go to a great deal of inconvenience trying to sort things out with his car so I 
intend to require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to also pay him £200 in recognition of 
this.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr S said he had nothing further to add.
Admiral said:
I have referred to one of our senior in house engineers who has previously reviewed this file 
to help with our previous responses.
The Engineer has reviewed the decision and has stated the following:
Reviewed and am familiar with this case as reviewed and noted several times now. I would 
not then have anything to add to my investigations and notes already on the file.
I would make one observation though in relation to the latest FOS correspondence. On page 
5 of the document they advise>>
"Admiral said that the dealership carried out checks on the steering following the initial 
repairs and found no problems, but Admiral has not provided any report in relation to this".
And"When the car was serviced some months after the after the accident, the diagnostic test 
showed a fault with the system"   
So the fault was "some months" after completion. So think fair and reasonable and could not 
then rule out some sort of incident or fault on the vehicle which is not then related to the 
claim
As this document is on the [repair] file I would ask we check if this document was forwarded 
to the FOS as in all the dealings in this type of case I have the FOS has said they would 
always take "experts" view over our own or independent (experts being dealer/manufacturer) 
As we have this document on the [repair] file entitled "Attached Documents" It was carried 
out by [the dealership] and it shows this, then if we have not provided this suggest it is sent 
to the FOS. And in this case if (as they to my knowledge/previous dealings on similar cases) 
are not accepting this "experts" report here, could we request explanation as to why.
It has come to my attention you may not have been sent the evidence referred to by our 
engineer above. Therefore, I have attached the original repair estimate, images and also the 
evidence form the Main Dealer of the work they completed. 
Based on this expert evidence, we dispute the decision made as we feel a some form of 
incident or fault has occurred not related to the incident. Should the attached evidence not 
change the decision made, as raised by our engineer above, please confirm why the 
evidence form the main dealer is not acceptable.
After receiving the responses from Mr S and Admiral, I issued my second provisional 
decision on 13 April 2022. After setting out Admirals response to the first provisional 
decision, the second provisional decision said:
Admiral also sent a number of documents, including the dealership invoice following the 
initial repairs, which shows the dealership signed off on the steering as they reprogrammed 
and tested it. 
Admiral also sent images which show the warning light for the steering system wasnt 
illuminated after the accident. It wasnt until nine months later that a warning light for the 
steering system illuminated. If the steering rack had been installed incorrectly, then this 
would have illuminated almost immediately or certainly soon after. It appears the issue was 
due to incorrect readings from the steering angle sensor. Its highly likely that the problems 
with the steering Mr S reported would have manifested themselves with a warning light 
immediately after the initial repair had they remained unfixed.
The images show the entire steering column was removed. The repairer detached the airbag 
from the middle of the wheel, unbolted the rack from inside the engine bay and from 
underneath the dash, so the sensor wasnt touched during the repair.
I can see why the engineer doesnt believe the repair was completed properly as they were 
looking for components to be adjusted on the report. However, the adjusting components 
were replaced with new items and the wheel alignment was checked after the repair. Its 
likely the technician knew how to adjust the parts off the vehicle and once installed, there 
was no need for adjustment. However front and rear axle adjustments were done, which 
would have adjusted the camber of the wheels.
So Im persuaded on balance that the checks carried out after the initial repairs do show that 
there were no problems with the steering at that time. My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. So I dont intend to 
ask Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Admiral didnt reply to my second provisional decision.
Mr S responded and said:
Although I have provided all the information available to me, in my opinion two items have 
been overlooked. They are directly linked to my claim that the repair was not conducted to 
the correct standard. I understand from the correspondence that the view is that another 
incidence related to the steering system must have happened between the repair and the 
fault discovered by the diagnostic system 9 months later. 
I have explained that I have contacted the original repairer several times starting a month 
after the repair that the steering is not behaving as it should do. I listed the evidence that the 
original repairer did further repair or work on the car. I have attached these details again in 
this email. That is the other incidence related to the steering system but in my view directly 
linked to the repair.
In hindsight I should contacted Admiral right from the start expressing my concerns that I am 
not satisfied with the repair. However, I have not been told to complain to Admiral in the 
whole process. Only after the repairer went into administration, I have been advised to 
contact Admiral.
In my opinion the first overlooked detail is:
I said   Mr S says he was told that a bolt in the steering column was fastened but 
he wasnt given an invoice for this as there was no charge. . I have provided an 
email (attached) from the repairer sent on the 12/02/2021. That email confirmed that 
the original repairer had worked on the car on the 10/07/2021 (milage 47571).
The invoice attached to that email is of poor quality and in my opinion was there to 
hide the poor workmanship.
Therefore, yes, that is the incident that work to the steering system was made but 
that was done by the original repairer. Admiral categorically denies the link to the 
original repair as they see that 9 month period between repair and diagnostic fault. 
Why would the original repairer not have the same view after a period of 7 months? It 
is because they have the history of my early and ongoing complaints and felt 
responsible for it. They could have referred me to Admiral then, but they didnt.
Crucially, the date the BMW dealership discovered the fault in the diagnostic system 
was the 26/09/2020 (milage 49639). On the 14/01/2022 the BMW dealership 
confirmed the incorrect repair of the steering system, Master Spline between the 
steering rack and the steering column was not presence, crucial for the correct 
steering system alignment, the wheels, the steering rack and the steering wheel. This 
is evidence from the expert.
In my opinion the second overlooked detail:
It has been said that   Its, likely the technician knew how to adjust the parts off the vehicle and once installed, there was no need for adjustment. . This is point I am 
trying to make, the repairer did not conduct the repair to the correct standard.
To explain this, the steering system consists of three components, the wheels, the 
steering rack and the steering wheel. My understanding from what the engineer of 
the BMW dealership said was, that because the steering rack was installed 
incorrectly the wheels had to be misaligned to compensate for that mistake. A Master 
Spline present would have not allowed to do that! This is the reason why these three 
components did not line up and produced that steering angle fault (bearing in mind, 
the original repairer worked on the vehicle after the repair as said above). In essence 
the steering system did not understand the position of the steering wheel related to 
the wheels.
Only after that invasive investigation of the BMW dealership the warning lights came 
up on the dashboard, not before. I do not dispute Admirals statement,  Admiral 
also sent images which show the warning light for the steering system wasnt 
illuminated after the accident. . Up to then only the diagnostic system in the 
workshop discovered that fault, which could have been caused while the original 
repairer did further repairs / adjustments on the 10/07/2022. That fault was the first 
evidence that I was right all along in my view that the steering system was not 
installed correctly.
I have carefully considered what Mr S said in response to my second provisional decision. 
However on balance I still think that the checks carried out after the initial repairs do show 
that there were no problems with the steering at that time.
So having thought about the circumstances again I see no reason to change my second 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. So Im not asking Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman