DRN-2495816
The complaint
Ms B says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave her loans that she couldnt 
afford.
What happened
Mr Lender gave Ms B six instalment loans between December 2018 and July 2019. 
Heres a table showing details of the loans:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 12/12/2018 17/01/2019 6 £300.00 £167.60
2 19/01/2019 21/01/2019 6 £300.00 £141.20
3 21/01/2019 26/04/2019 12 £750.00 £187.19
4 27/04/2019 29/05/2019 12 £750.00 £166.97
5 30/05/2019 29/07/2019 12 £1,000.00 £227.53
6 30/07/2019 outstanding 12 £1,500.00 £321.70
Ms B complained that Mr Lender provided her with loans that she couldnt afford to repay 
when she already had multiple loans outstanding with other payday lenders. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel that shed seen enough to say it was unfair that Mr Lender had 
provided loans 1 - 3 to Ms B. But she thought that by loan 4 onwards proportionate checks 
would most likely have shown that Ms B was having problems managing her money. And by 
loan 6, our adjudicator felt that Ms Bs overall pattern of borrowing suggested she had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans. 
So our adjudicator felt that Mr Lender ought to have realised it was unlikely that Ms B 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay her borrowing from loan 4 onwards and loans 4-6 
shouldnt have been provided. 
Our adjudicator also gave some detailed instructions about the way she thought Mr Lender 
should settle the complaint. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter but offered to uphold 
the complaint about loan 6. Mr Lender sent details showing how it had worked out the refund 
it was willing to pay Ms B in settlement of her complaint. 
We passed this information on to Ms B. The offer falls short of our adjudicators 
recommended settlement and Ms B told us she would like to progress her complaint. So it 
comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.Ive looked at what it appears Ms B told Mr Lender about her financial circumstances and the 
repayment amounts she had to make for loans 1  3. Taking this information into account 
and bearing in mind that this was early on in her lending relationship with Mr Lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Ms B for the amount of information 
that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. 
These loans all looked affordable for Ms B, based on what shed said to Mr Lender about her 
finances. So I agree with our adjudicator that there isnt enough information for me to be able 
to say that Mr Lender shouldnt have lent Ms B any of the first three loans. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Mr Lender to provide loan 4. Heres 
why I say this.
Mr Lender has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms B. It asked her to provide 
details of her income and to tell Mr Lender what she normally spent each month. It took into 
account the amount that Ms B said she was spending on other credit commitments, 
including spending on other short term loans. It also carried out checks on Ms Bs credit file 
and asked her some additional questions before agreeing to lend to her. 
Mr Lender said it worked out that the loan it provided shouldve been affordable for Ms B. It 
said it wouldnt have been proportionate to carry out any more extensive checks at this stage 
in the borrowing relationship  and that the information it had gathered gave Mr Lender no 
reason to think it needed to do further checks. 
Ive carefully taken into account everything that Mr Lender has said in response to our 
adjudicators view. 
But I think that Mr Lender still shouldve carried out more thorough checks into Ms Bs 
financial situation before agreeing to lend such a substantial loan over this length of time. 
Ms B was planning to repay the loan over 12 months and, by the end of the loan term, Ms B 
would've been more or less continuously indebted to Mr Lender for around 16 months in a 
row. She was now asking to borrow - for the second time  a loan that was two and a half 
times the amount her first loan had been around four months or so earlier. I think Mr Lender 
shouldve realised that what Ms B was saying about her financial situation was clearly at 
odds with her borrowing  and that she was likely having money problems. I dont think it 
was any longer reasonable for Mr Lender to base its lending decision on the information 
Ms B was providing. I think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender independently to 
check the true state of Ms Bs finances before agreeing to lend loan 4.
And had it done so, I think Mr Lender would likely have become aware that by the time she 
asked for loan 4, Ms B already had four other outstanding short-term loans with different 
lenders. 
So Mr Lender shouldve realised that loan 4  and any further lending - wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Ms B. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Ms B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. And as Mr Lender has already offered to uphold this loan, I dont think I need say 
more about this.So Im upholding Ms Bs complaint about loans 4, 5 and 6.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Ms B, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere particularly if a relationship existed between 
her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right. Heres what Mr Lender needs to do.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Ms B having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay this. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Ms B. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms B.
E. Remove all adverse entries from Ms Bs credit file for loans 4 and 5. The number of 
loans taken from the point of loan 6 means any information recorded about this loan 
is adverse. So all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Ms Bs credit file.
*HMRC requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. If Ms B asks Mr Lender for a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off, Mr Lender should provide this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint about loans 4,5 and 6. 
PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should take the steps Ive set out above to put 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman