DRN-1418515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that The Mortgage Business Plc wont reduce the interest rate on 
their mortgage, and wont let them hand the property over.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a residential interest only mortgage with TMB. To be closer to their work, 
theyve moved out of the property and are letting it out. 
Mr and Mrs M say TMB hasnt treated them fairly. Theyre struggling to afford the mortgage 
as the rent doesnt cover the mortgage payments. They want TMB to reduce the interest rate 
or offer them a new interest rate product. They say that would make the mortgage affordable 
and they would use any extra from the rent to reduce the capital. And they say that if the rate 
cant be reduced, they want TMB to take the property off their hands and bring the mortgage 
to an end.
TMB said that it doesnt offer interest rates to any of its customers. It has a specialist 
remortgage process, whereby its customers can move to Bank of Scotland, another lender 
in the Lloyds group, to access a new interest rate. But Mr and Mrs M arent eligible for that 
because theyre not living in the property in breach of the mortgage conditions. 
TMB said it does sometimes take properties back from borrowers  this is a voluntary 
repossession. But it would still be a repossession, it would be recorded as such on Mr and 
Mrs Ms credit files, and the costs of sale would be added to the debt. And it says a 
repossessed property often sells for less than a property the owners sell themselves. The 
property isnt in negative equity and the mortgage isnt in arrears. So it thinks it would be 
better for Mr and Mrs M to sell the property themselves.
Mr and Mrs M said theyve tried to sell but havent been able to. TMBs interest rate is two or 
three times what other lenders charge  but they cant move their mortgage elsewhere. And 
they havent asked for TMBs consent to let out the property because theyd have to pay a 
fee every six months.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. So Mr and Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs M are in financial difficulty and are struggling to afford their 
mortgage. I can see theyre in a very difficult position  and they wish things were different 
for them. I can understand that, but I dont think that means TMB has treated them unfairly.
TMB is a closed book lender. This means it doesnt take on new lending, and hasnt done 
so for many years. It just manages its book of existing borrowers. And, as a result of that, it doesnt offer new mortgage interest rates either. All its customers remain on the standard 
variable rate (SVR) once their existing interest rates expire. 
This means that Mr and Mrs M are in the same position as all TMBs other customers. None 
of its customers can access a new interest rate with TMB, and have to remain on the SVR 
once their previous rates have ended. And, while TMBs SVR is higher than the new interest 
rates other lenders offer, it isnt out of line with the SVR rates other lenders charge. 
Therefore I dont think TMB has treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly, or differently to how it treats 
any of its other customers. 
Theres nothing in TMBs mortgage or terms and conditions to prevent Mr and Mrs M moving 
their mortgage to another lender or converting it to a buy to let mortgage. Theyre not subject 
to an early repayment charge, for example. I understand Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances 
make it hard for them to move their mortgage  but TMB isnt responsible for that.
TMBs customers are able to use the specialist remortgage process to move to Bank of 
Scotland. As Bank of Scotland would be taking on their mortgage, its entitled to set eligibility 
criteria before doing so. Strictly speaking, Bank of Scotland, not TMB, is responsible for 
Bank of Scotlands criteria for taking on new mortgages. 
TMB has explained that Mr and Mrs M arent eligible because theyre not living in the 
property and are in breach of the mortgage. I think its reasonable that the terms and 
conditions require them to live there; this is a residential mortgage, not a buy to let. A buy to 
let mortgage is a different product with different risks to the lender. Thats why Bank of 
Scotland will only consider taking the mortgage on if Mr and Mrs M are living in the property. 
As Ive said, its criteria are for Bank of Scotland, not TMB, to set. But I dont think its 
unreasonable that it will only consider granting a residential mortgage to borrowers living in 
the property.
Ive looked carefully at what both parties have said about Mr and Mrs M surrendering the 
property. I think TMB is right that this isnt something that would be in Mr and Mrs Ms best 
interests at this stage. A repossessed property generally sells for less, at higher costs, than 
a standard sale. So Mr and Mrs M would be better off if they can sell the property 
themselves. And while theyve struggled to do so, the same would be true if TMB tried to sell 
it  and Mr and Mrs M would still be liable for the mortgage. 
A voluntary surrender would also be recorded on their credit files as a repossession, which 
would make it harder for them to move on with their lives. I agree that selling the property 
seems to be the best way forward for Mr and Mrs M. But the regulator requires TMB to think 
about whats in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests before taking action. And its likely to be better 
for everyone if Mr and Mrs M sell it themselves than if TMB does it for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman