DRN-2208102
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Clydesdale Bank Plc (T/A Virgin Money) dealt with her 
requests to make faster payments from her current account. She feels she received poor 
customer service.
What happened
On 17 March 2020 Miss S telephoned Virgin Money in order to make a faster payment from 
her current account to an existing payee. Miss S said she wanted to transfer over £10000 
from her current account. But Virgin Money told her the faster payment limit was £10000 per 
day. 
Miss S transferred £10000 on 17 March and asked if she could set up a payment instruction 
for the following day to transfer the same amount. But Virgin Money informed her she 
couldnt do that. And it said shed need to call back the next day in order to make a new 
faster payment.
On 18 March Miss S telephoned Virgin Money and asked to make a faster payment of 
£20000. She was, again, advised the maximum shed be able to transfer was capped at 
£10000 per day. Miss S instructed Virgin Money to proceed with the faster payment, which 
was successful. And she asked Virgin Money to set up a future dated faster payment 
instruction for the following day. But she was, again, told this wasnt possible due to the daily 
restrictions in place. 
Later the same day, Miss S contacted Virgin Money to ask it to make a faster payment on 
her behalf. She was advised this wasnt possible as Miss S had already transferred £10000 
 thus reaching her daily faster payment limit. She was told to call back the next day if she 
wished to make a further transfer.
On 19 March and 20 March Miss S made further faster payments of £10000 over the 
telephone. Also, on 20 March, Miss S logged a complaint with Virgin Money as she was 
unhappy she hadnt been able to transfer her funds in one transaction. She thought Virgin 
Moneys website said she was entitled to transfer a maximum of £100000 per day. And she 
said having to contact Virgin Money each time she wanted to transfer the maximum daily 
limit was inconvenient, took up her time and caused her to incur telephone expenses.  
When Virgin Money responded to Miss S complaint it conceded that its terms and conditions 
and website didnt refer to a daily faster payment limit. It accepted both gave the impression 
an account holder could make either multiple or larger transactions by telephone. And it 
recognised that this must have caused confusion to Miss S about how much money she was 
able to transfer per day. Virgin Money said it had provided feedback about this to all relevant 
departments.
Being dissatisfied with how Virgin Money had responded to Miss S complaint she referred it 
to our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence Miss S and Virgin Money provided 
our service. But, while they empathised with Miss S, they didnt recommend upholding his 
complaint. Overall, they didnt think Virgin Money had made an error. They were persuaded 
Miss S had been given correct advice about making a faster payment each time she 
telephoned Virgin Money. But Miss S disagreed with our investigators view of her complaint 
and asked an ombudsman to decide it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss S experienced here. Its clear from the 
information shes provided our service that she isnt happy with the way in which Virgin 
Money dealt with her faster payment requests.
My role is to assess whether I think Virgin Money made a mistake, or treated Miss S unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she 
and Virgin Money have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Miss S will 
be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Ive seen the screenshots Miss S provided our service of Virgin Moneys website and I agree 
they suggest an account holder can make either multiple or larger transactions. So, I can 
appreciate why Miss S was confused and frustrated on learning that faster payments are 
subject to a daily limit of £10000.
In its final response to Miss S complaint, Virgin Money said it had provided feedback in 
efforts to make it clearer on its website, and in its terms and conditions, that faster payments 
are subject to a daily limit of £10000. I think this was reasonable action for it to take. And I 
think this shows how seriously its taken Miss S complaint.
Like our investigator, Ive reviewed the call transcripts of the telephone calls Miss S made to 
Virgin Money during March. I havent heard the call recordings, but Im not persuaded thats 
necessary here as Ive no reason to doubt the accuracy of the transcripts Ive seen.
Based on the call transcripts Ive seen, Im satisfied Miss S was provided with correct 
information about the faster payment daily limits during each call. I think the representative 
she spoke with on each occasion was helpful. They consistently and clearly explained the 
daily faster payment restrictions Miss S was subject to and told her shed need to telephone 
Virgin Money the following day if she wanted to transfer more than £10000. I dont think the 
representatives Miss S spoke with could have offered any further assistance to her and I 
dont agree they gave poor customer service as shes told our service.
Ive no doubt it was inconvenient for Miss S to have to make her faster payments separately. 
But our service isnt the regulator of banks and building societies. So, we cant tell a 
business to change its policy on how it processes payments. Ive had sight of Virgin Moneys 
faster payment policy and Im satisfied this shows such transfers are subject to a £10000 
daily limit. Im therefore persuaded Virgin Money followed its own policy properly and this is 
why it wasnt able to allow Miss S to transfer more than £10000 each day.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded Virgin Money made an error 
here. As Ive already explained, Miss S was provided with correct guidance about the faster 
payment system each time she contacted Virgin Money. And I think any confusion Miss S 
may have had about the faster payment limits was clarified during her initial call to Virgin 
Money on 17 March.I realise Miss S will be disappointed with my decision and I appreciate the reasons why she 
brought this complaint to our service. But, for the reasons given, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Miss S dispute with Virgin 
Money informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Miss S further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman