DRN-2790500
The complaint
Mr S brings this complaint on behalf of his business, which Ill call M, a limited company. 
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed Ms business account 
when hed told them the company had been reinstated, and about the customer service 
provided by RBS. 
What happened
M was dissolved in March 2020, and RBS contacted Mr S to confirm the account had a stop 
placed on it. Mr S contacted RBS in November 2020 to tell them M had been reinstated in 
August and asked them to stop the process of closing the account so that the funds could be 
returned.  
RBS transferred the account funds to the Treasury in December 2020 and the account was 
closed in January 2021. 
Mr S complained to RBS about the account being closed, and about the customer service 
hed received when trying to prevent this happening. He asked for personal apologies from 
the employees involved and £5,000 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
the situation had caused him. 
RBS responded to Mr Ss complaint in January 2021. They apologised for the errors, 
explained that the account would be re-opened, but that M would also need to open a new 
account, and offered a total of £800 compensation. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S bought Ms complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for M. They thought the apology from RBS was reasonable, and that the £800 offered 
by RBS reflected the nature of their mistakes and how long M was affected by them. 
Mr S didnt agree, he says M couldve earned more than £800 by reinvesting the money that 
was in the account, and that he, as the sole director of M, has spent more than £800 of time 
trying to resolve the matter. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that RBS incorrectly closed Ms account and provided poor service to Mr 
S when he contacted them. By reopening the old account, and the new one to prevent any 
issues, RBS have done what I would expect them to do to put things right. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the £800 compensation offered by RBS fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused to M. 
I appreciate that this has been a difficult and frustrating process for Mr S. Hes made a 
number of calls to RBS from overseas and received conflicting information from RBS staff 
members when trying to resolve the issue. I understand the strength of his feelings on the 
matter, and his intention to help improve support for future customers. Because M is a 
separate legal entity to Mr S, I can only make an award for inconvenience experienced by 
the company, and not by Mr S personally. 
Mr S is the sole director of the company, and so the business has been put to inconvenience 
in the time that Mr S has had to take away from running his business in order to resolve the 
issue of the closed account and reclaiming the funds. I note that the funds werent received 
back from the Treasury until May 2021 and although I accept that this was some months 
after they were transferred there in error, I havent seen any evidence of direct losses 
suffered by M as a result of the account closure. Nevertheless, its likely that M has also 
been inconvenienced in not having access to these funds. So, I find that RBS should 
compensate M for all the inconvenience caused, and that £800 is a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience caused to the business. 
Mr S has asked for personal apologies from the staff members involved in his case. I am 
satisfied that RBS are responsible for the service provided by their staff members, and 
therefore the apology issued by RBS is sufficient in this case. 
My final decision
RBS has already made an offer to pay £800 to settle the complaint and, for the reasons 
explained above, I find this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision is that I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay M £800 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman