DRN-1318339
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) didnt authorise him to use his debit 
card while he was attempting to use pay at pump services at a petrol station.
What happened
On 7 November 2019 Mr G attempted to purchase fuel at a petrol station using pay at 
pump services. He tried to do so using his Halifax debit card. But his account balance was 
£10 and he didnt have an overdraft facility. So his card was declined. Mr G wasnt happy 
that his card had been declined. He thought Halifax wasnt allowing him to use his own 
money. So he complained.
After Halifax investigated Mr Gs complaint it didnt uphold it. Halifax informed him that his 
account type prevented him from being able to use pay at pump services and he would 
have to purchase petrol using a kiosk instead. It told him that this was due to the petrol 
station Mr G attended not having updated its system to follow Visa guidance, which was 
rolled out in October 2016. Halifax also said as Mr G had tried to use his card at pay at 
pump several times prior to 7 November he ought to have been aware his card wouldnt 
work. It also said he'd made an enquiry about this issue before.
Mr G remained dissatisfied with how Halifax had dealt with his complaint and referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and, while they empathised 
with Mr G, they didnt think Halifax had made an error or needed to do anything more here. 
But Mr G disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr G and Halifax that Ive read everything thats been sent. So if 
Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr G experienced. I know he feels very strongly about 
this matter, which is understandable. And I appreciate the reasons why hes brought his 
complaint to us. But what I must determine here is whether Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably. And Ill explain why I think it has.
There are three parts to this complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
them separately. 
Mr Gs inability to use his card at pay at pump servicesI can see Halifax explained in detail in its final response letter why Mr G wasnt able to use 
his debit card to purchase fuel at a pay at pump. It referred him to the Visa rules that were 
introduced at pay at the pump terminals in 2016.
As Halifax explained to Mr G the Visa rules state that customers cards should be authorised 
before they were permitted to purchase fuel. This is achieved by putting a temporary hold for 
£100 on a customers account until theyve paid, which ensures the customer has sufficient 
funds to pay for their fuel.
Halifax also told Mr G that some pumps havent updated their systems to follow the Visa 
guidance. As a result, to stop customers who dont have an overdraft facility spending 
money they may not have, Halifax (like some other banks) blocked customers using their 
cards at pumps that havent been updated. 
Halifax said the type of account held by Mr G doesnt have an overdraft facility. It said this is 
why he wasnt able to use his card on this occasion. Halifax also told our service that Mr G is 
aware of this having made a previously enquiry in March 2019 regarding whether he had the 
ability to pay at pump. Halifax said during that telephone call it offered to go through an 
overdraft application with Mr G, which he declined as it would involve a credit check. It stated 
that because Mr G had tried to use his card at pay at pump several times prior to 7 
November this was additional evidence that he ought to have been aware his card wouldnt 
work.
I can understand how not being able to use his debit card at a non-updated pump could be 
restrictive to Mr G. But I think its important to bear in mind that he is able to access the 
funds held in his account to purchase petrol using a kiosk. Mr G feels its inconvenient to 
have to rely on the availability of kiosks to purchase petrol. He said not all petrol stations in 
his area have a kiosk facility or are open 24 hours a day. But thats not something I can fairly 
hold Halifax responsible for.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Halifax acted unfairly here. As our investigator explained the 
Visa rules werent implemented by Halifax. It has no control over those rules. And its 
decision to block the cards of its customers without an overdraft facility is a business 
decision its entitled to make. Thats not something our service would generally interfere with. 
Halifax not providing clear information to G that he couldnt use his debit card at pay at 
pump 
Mr G says if hed known he wouldnt have been able to use his debit card he wouldnt have 
chosen the account he opened. But I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Halifax to 
inform Mr G of the limitations of his account over and above those contained in the key facts 
document and terms and conditions he would have been given at the point of opening his 
account. I also think Mr G had a responsibility to satisfy himself that the account he was 
opening was suitable.
I think Mr G became aware of the limitations of his account after opening it because Ive 
seen evidence that shows he spoke with Halifax to query whether he could use his debit 
card at pay at pump services. I note that Halifax offered to assist him by applying for an 
overdraft facility on his behalf. He declined that, as of course hes entitled to do. But Im 
satisfied Halifax offered him a way of being able to use his card in the way he wanted. I cant 
fairly conclude it could have done anymore here.
Inability of Halifax to send its final response by emailThe final part of Mr Gs complaint relates to Halifaxs refusal to send him its final response 
letter by email. Its already explained it isnt able to email such correspondence to its 
customers as it doesnt have secure system in place to encrypt its emails. But I can see that 
Mr G doesnt accept this. He feels Halifaxs refusal to email its final response was a tactic to 
delay his ability to raise a complaint with our service. However, Im not persuaded by that 
argument. A final response letter contains financially sensitive and confidential information. 
And I can understand why Halifax wouldnt want to send such information by email. 
Halifax is entitled to decide how it sends correspondence to its customers. As our 
investigator has explained, were not the regulator of banks. So, we cant tell a business to 
change its policy or to adopt the changes that Mr G wanted here. Overall though Im satisfied 
Halifax followed its own policy properly in relation to sending its final response to Mr G. Im 
also satisfied it explained the reason why it couldnt send that correspondence by email.
I realise Mr G will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Halifax informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr G 
further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman