DRN-3590958
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC did not reimburse him for the losses he incurred when 
he fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr S received a significant lump sum of money in respect of divorce 
proceedings. He intended to use this in due course to purchase a new home. In the 
meantime, Mr S kept the money in his Metro Bank accounts.
Around six months later, at the start of the following year, Mr S saw an advert for 
investments based in cryptocurrency. These appeared to offer good returns. Mr S was 
enticed by the prospect of achieving a short-term boost in the amount he had available for a 
property deposit. Mr S explains he initially invested just a small sum using a credit card, an 
amount of around £250.
Mr S says he was then contacted by someone claiming to work as a broker for an 
investment company (which Ill refer to as D). This broker told Mr S that D could help him 
achieve even better returns. Mr S says what he was told sounded attractive. He was 
persuaded it would be a good idea. Mr S allowed him to have remote access to his 
computer, supposedly to allow the broker to set up an account and make trades on Mr Ss 
behalf.
Mr S says the broker was then in daily contact, calling and messaging him, and pressuring 
him to invest. Hed mentioned D to his wife, who had some concerns. Shed looked at Ds 
website and thought it could be a scam. She was concerned Mr S had nothing in writing 
from D. Mr S told the broker these concerns. However, the broker then spoke to him and 
was ultimately able to reassure Mr S that D was legitimate.
Mr S subsequently made payments to D as listed below. These payments were sent from 
two different Metro accounts held in his name, but for clarity I have listed them together in 
chronological sequence rather than splitting by the originating account. 
Each payment was first sent to an emoney wallet at a cryptocurrency exchange (Ill refer to 
this as E) that had been set up in Mr Ss own name with the supposed brokers help. Mr S 
then purchased cryptocurrency and sent this onwards to D.
Payment 
numberDate Type of transaction / Location Amount
1 18/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £15
2 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £2,500
3 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £4,000
4 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £3,500
5 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held 
with E£4,000
6 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £4,000
7 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £3,000
8 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £4,000
9 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £4,000
10 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £4,000
11 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £4,000
12 19/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £4,000
22/02/2021 FCA publishes warning about D
13 22/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £21,000
22/02/2021 Credit received (£1,528.50)
14 23/02/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £15,000
15 01/03/2021 Debit card payment to Mr Ss wallet held with E £20
16 02/03/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £1,500
17 05/03/2021 Debit card payment to Mr Ss wallet held with E £100
18 09/03/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £500
19 09/03/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £500
20 10/03/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £100
11/03/2021 Credit received (£71.50) 
21 11/03/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £7,500
19/03/2021 Mr S phones Metro saying he will send Metro 
details by email. Doesnt discuss further.
25/03/2021 Second call between Metro and Mr S, this time 
including discussion of the details of the scam.
22 27/04/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £15
23 28/04/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £15
24 28/04/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £500
25 29/04/2021 Faster Payment transfer to Mr Ss wallet held with E £800
Total Debits £88,565
Total Credits £1,600
Net loss  total £86,965
Net loss from payment five onwards £76,950
After making payment 21 (the sum of £7,500 on 11 March), Mr S made repeated attempts to 
withdraw his capital from the investment. This proved impossible, and Mr S began to realise 
hed most probably been the victim of a scam. 
Mr S spoke to Metro on 19 March and 25 March. In the second of these calls, he detailed 
what had happened. Metro told him that because hed moved the money via his own wallet 
held with E before it was sent onwards to D, the loss to this scam was the responsibility of E. 
He was told that therefore Metro couldnt help him, and he should report what had happened 
to E.
Mr S contacted E, but was unable to get any response or otherwise recover his money. He 
was subsequently tricked into sending more money to the scammers (payments 22 to 25), 
being promised these were release fees that would mean he could be sent the funds 
supposedly still in his investment with D. But again, he received nothing, and Mr S made no 
further payments after 29 April.
Unhappy with the treatment hed received from Metro, Mr S complained. Metro restated its 
position, and Mr S referred his complaint to this service for an impartial review.
Our Investigator looked into everything and thought Metro should reimburse Mr S for most of 
the money hed lost. The investigator thought that by the point of the fifth payment Mr S had made from his Metro 
accounts (shown in bold above), Metro should have had concerns about the pattern of 
account usage and taken steps to intervene. The Investigator thought Metro would thus have 
prevented Mr Ss losses from that point onwards. 
While the money had gone via a wallet held in Mr Ss own name with E, the Investigator 
thought it fair that Metro was liable for the losses that Mr S incurred, and that it had been 
best placed to identify the need for intervention and to protect Mr S.
The Investigator considered whether Mr S should share a proportion of the blame for what 
had happened. The Investigator noted the medical evidence Mr S had shared indicating that 
from around the time of his divorce hed suffered from serious mental ill-health, and that at 
the time of the payments in question Mr S had been suffering from a breakdown, impairing 
his cognitive capacity. In light of this the investigator thought it would not be fair to apply a 
reduction to the amount he believed Metro should pay Mr S.
Metro didnt agree. In summary, it said:
- While the FCA had published a warning about E on 26 June 2021, this was after the 
payments were made. Therefore, the payments from Mr Ss Metro accounts were 
made to a legitimate wallet held with E, and in Mr Ss own name. Metro should have 
had no cause for concern. 
- The loss had only occurred when Mr S had sent this on to D. It was not fair to hold 
Metro liable rather than E.
- Even had Metro intervened as the Investigator said it should, Metro couldnt have 
persuaded Mr S this wasnt a legitimate scheme  he had not listened to his wife 
when shed expressed this same concern.
- Metro had no knowledge at the time of Mr Ss mental health and the impact on him.
Agreement could not subsequently be reached, so I have been asked to make a final 
decision on Mr Ss complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
These were all authorised payments even though Mr S was the victim of a scam. Mr S 
made the payments himself. So, although Mr S did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, 
he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Metro should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need initially to decide whether Metro acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr S when he made these payments, or whether it should have done more 
than it did. In the event I find it at fault, I will need to determine the extent to which the parties 
involved are liable for the consequences.
Firstly, Ive considered whether these payments ought reasonably to have stood out to Metro 
as unusual or otherwise indicative of the potential for financial harm, in the context of Mr Ss 
typical usage of his accounts.
Here, Mr S made ten payments on 19 February for sums ranging between £2,500 and 
£4,000. These were being made to a newly created payee - hed only made the first Faster 
Payment transfer to that payee from his Metro accounts one day earlier.
By the point of payment five in the table above, Mr S was sending the fourth payment that 
day  accounting for a total of £14,000. This was considerably out of the ordinary for his prior 
account usage looking at the statement histories provided by Metro.
All in all, I think there was more than enough going on here that, by the time of the fifth 
payment, Metro ought reasonably to have considered this pattern and frequency of 
payments indicated a higher than usual risk of financial harm to Mr S. 
As such, I think it is reasonable to have expected Metro to have intervened at that point - to 
reassure itself that these payments werent connected to fraud or a scam. For example, as a 
starting point, asking Mr S about the purpose and nature of the payments.
Had Metro done so and contacted Mr S, I have seen nothing to suggest that Mr S would 
have done other than truthfully respond to Metros questions. I think this would have 
uncovered that the payments were being made in connection with an investment that had 
the features and hallmarks of a cryptoasset investment scam (which I will revisit in more 
detail below).
I have considered Metros point that Mr S did not heed his wifes concerns about D, and so he may similarly have disregarded any concerns raised by the bank. But on balance, Im not 
persuaded by Metros argument here. Mr S explains that at the time, he thought he knew 
better than his wife about financial matters. Further, I dont consider it irrelevant that he was 
in the process of a protracted divorce process. 
To my mind, its more likely than not that hed have heeded, rather than dismissed, 
comments from his bank of longstanding association if Metro had raised significant concerns 
about the legitimacy of what he was doing and the company he was dealing with. Based on 
what Ive seen here, I think that Mr S, most likely recognising the bank as financial 
professionals with far greater expertise in the risks of fraud and scams, would have taken on 
board what Metro ought to have told him.
Ive noted that even after Mr S had reported the matter to Metro, he made four further 
payments connected to the scam totalling £1,330. Im persuaded by his explanation that 
these payments were made because he believed they were release fees  unfortunately 
this being a further deception by the scammers to extract yet more money. I dont find that 
this shows Mr S would have continued to make payments regardless of any intervention by 
Metro  rather, Im persuaded that he made these payments out of desperation at this point, 
believing Metro would not assist him to recover his losses.
I know Metro may consider that the above conclusions are based on speculation about what 
might have happened  given that no such contact between it and Mr S occurred at the time. 
But in the absence of actual evidence, as here, I am required to reach my findings on the 
balance of probabilities  what I consider most likely would have happened, given the 
information and other evidence available to me.
Here, Metro did not intervene when I consider it ought to have done so. Clearly there is no 
way of knowing with certainty what might have happened had Metro contacted Mr S. But I 
think it more likely than not that its intervention at this point in the proceedings would have 
prompted Mr S to reconsider the legitimacy of D, and the bank would have led him to the 
realisation that it was likely not genuine.
I find it most probable that in consequence Mr S would not have made this payment, or 
further payments, and so would not have incurred any of the losses that resulted from 
payment five onwards.
I also consider that such an intervention by Metro would likely have brought to light Mr Ss 
situation and circumstances at the time, including his mental health (as good industry 
practice banks should look to identify possible signs of vulnerability).
In saying all of this, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it likely Metro would have 
been able to recover the payments made prior to this point. Having transferred funds, Mr S 
moved that money onward to D without delay  at which point recovery would have no 
longer been possible even had the scam come to light at the time. So, I dont consider Metro 
should be liable to reimburse payments one to four inclusive.
I have given consideration to Metros point that the loss occurred when Mr S sent the funds 
onwards from E to D, rather than when he paid money from Metro to E. But I am not 
persuaded that this alters my view on Metros liability. I will explain why in more detail.
I have found that Metro should have identified that the pattern and nature of transactions 
being made by Mr S were indicative of the risk of financial harm to him through fraud or 
scam. Mr S since has been unable to recover any of the funds that were sent to E  he has 
suffered a loss from the sequence of transactions that flowed from these payments.Metro, of all the parties involved, was best placed here to prevent the losses  it had held 
accounts for Mr S for some time and so had the opportunity to establish typical usage 
patterns for his accounts. In my view, Metro had sufficient reason to have taken further steps 
to reassure itself that these payments werent likely to lead to financial harm. Had it done so, 
I find this would most likely have prevented the further payments. 
I am satisfied that this reflects what could reasonably have been expected of Metro in light of 
good industry practice and awareness of cryptocurrency-based investment scams at the 
time. The regulator, the FCA, had published information on its website about the growing 
risks and hallmarks of Cryptoasset investment scams in June 2018. The patterns described 
on this page and the linked Action Fraud page mirror what was happening to Mr S. 
I consider Metro ought reasonably to have held this knowledge considerably in advance of 
the scam that Mr S fell victim to.
With its knowledge of these risks and hallmarks, and from what Metro should reasonably 
have established from Mr S (but failed to) about the transactions he was undertaking, I find 
Mr Ss consequent losses were reasonably foreseeable by Metro as being substantially likely 
to result. I dont consider Metro needed the FCAs later specific warnings about D and E to 
have identified what was most likely happening in Mr Ss case. 
So, in all, I find it fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances that Metro should now be 
liable to refund Mr S for the losses from payments made from the point at which I find it 
should have intervened (that being the point of payment five above, inclusive of that 
payment).
I have moved on to consider how Mr S would otherwise have utilised the money he lost 
through the scam. Firstly, while some credits to his account reflect monies borrowed from 
family, and money drawn from Mr Ss pension pot, the overall losses he incurred were 
accounted for by the total account balance hed held with Metro prior to the scam. 
Further, based on both his testimony and the evidence within the chat history between him 
and the scammer, I am persuaded that he had intended to use these funds to provide a 
property deposit for a family member and himself. Overall, I believe a fair award here for the 
cost of his being deprived of the funds for the relevant period would be for Metro to add 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per year.
I have also considered whether Mr S should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, while I think Mr S was able to recognise a degree of risk here, in part 
prompted by his wife, I am persuaded that his perception of those risks (and of the steps he 
could take to address them) was significantly and adversely affected by the impact of his 
circumstances at that specific moment in time together with the determined efforts of an 
opportunist scammer. Based on what I have seen, including the medical records (which I will 
not detail here), I dont consider it fair and reasonable to reduce the award I make here.
Putting things right
Given the above, I consider it fair and reasonable that, within 28 days of receiving 
confirmation that Mr S accepts this decision, Metro should:
 refund Mr S the sum of £76,950 (this equating to the money Mr S lost as a result of 
the scam from payment five onwards less the amount of £1,600 that Mr S received 
back as credits); and,
 pay Mr S interest on the payments at 8% simple from the date of each payment to 
the date of settlement less any tax lawfully deductible. Where payments were partially recredited to Mr Ss account in the course of the scam (a total of £1,600), 
Metro can choose not to pay interest on that portion of the original payments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Metro Bank PLC should now put 
matters right as set out above, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman