DRN-1577128
The complaint
Mrs E says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs E bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed tme.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint for the following reasons.
Mrs E signed her application form to indicate she wanted PPI separately to where she 
signed to apply for the store card. So, I think AXA made Mrs E aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs E so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. Its 
possible the information AXA gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But Mrs E doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy couldve 
been useful to her. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Es comments and those of her representative, including about 
whether she was eligible for the policy. But these points dont change my conclusion. Mrs E 
was eligible for the policy. She couldnt have claimed for unemployment for a short time after 
taking out the PPI, but I dont think this wouldve made a difference to her decision to take it 
out, even if shed been given clear information about this restriction.
The regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share dont apply, 
as those rules only apply to lenders. AXA is the insurer of the policy, not the lender.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman