DRN-3079859
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the advice she received from Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix), then 
trading as Abbey Life, to transfer from her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into a 
Personal Pension Plan (PPP). She says she wasnt compensated properly when the advice 
was later reviewed.
Mrs B is represented in this matter by a claims management company that Ill refer to as F. 
What happened
In 1991 Mrs B received advice from Phoenix to transfer her OPS into a PPP. She accepted 
the advice and transferred.
In 2002, as part of the industry wide Pension Review, Phoenix invited Mrs B to have the 
advice she received reviewed. Mrs B accepted the invite and following a review Phoenix 
concluded that she shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of her OPS. Phoenix wrote to 
Mrs B with an offer to put matters right. To summarise, it said:
Its calculations had been done in accordance with requirements set by the regulator;
Its offer involved enhancing Mrs Bs PPP by an amount intended to match the 
benefits she wouldve accrued if shed stayed in her OPS;
It would make a payment into Mrs Bs PPP by adding 4243.48 units (worth £19,570) 
to the fund her PPP was already invested in. 
Having accepted Phoenixs offer, Mrs Bs PPP was enhanced accordingly. 
In early 2003 Mrs B transferred her PPP to another pension provider. She purchased an 
annuity in 2013.
F complained to Phoenix on Mrs Bs behalf in June 2020. In addition to saying that Mrs B 
had been poorly advised to transfer in 1991, F said it had identified the following errors with 
Phoenixs Pension Review calculation and offer: 
The calculation had incorrectly assumed Mrs B was single when shed been married 
since 1993. This had produced a redress amount which was lower than it shouldve 
been;
The financial assumptions used for the calculation (i.e. the charges) overstated the 
value of Mrs Bs PPP and again produced a redress amount which was lower than it 
shouldve been;
Mrs Bs redress was paid into a high-risk international fund and she wasnt provided 
with any warning about this.
To resolve matters, F wanted Phoenix to recalculate Mrs Bs losses in line with the 
regulators current guidelines on redress for defined benefits pension transfers.
Phoenix said the complaint had been made too late, so the matter was referred to our 
service. As Phoenix objected to our service considering the complaint, one of our 
investigators reviewed the objection and determined that it could be considered. Phoenix 
later consented to our service considering the merits of Mrs Bs complaint and made the 
following points in response:
In its 2002 offer letter it had stated under assumptions that Mrs B was married, not 
single as had been claimed;
All assumptions (including those about future charges) used as part of the review had 
been in accordance with the regulators guidance in force at the time;
Where any redress was due, the process was to allocate it to the PPPs existing 
fund.
Our investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
Shed seen nothing to suggest Phoenix hadnt reviewed and redressed Mrs Bs PPP 
in line with the Pension Review guidance at the time
She was satisfied assumptions Phoenix made about charges for the purpose of the 
calculations were appropriate
She disagreed that Phoenix had unreasonably applied Mrs Bs redress payment to 
her PPP
Fs claim that Phoenixs calculations had assumed Mrs B was single was incorrect. 
Phoenixs 2002 letter to Mrs B confirmed the calculation had been carried out on the 
basis that she was married.
F accepted that Phoenix had used the correct assumption regarding Mrs Bs marital status in 
its calculations. However, it maintained that inadequate provisions had been made in the 
calculations for the costs of fund management; they failed to take into account the 
numerous additional fund-related charges paid by the investor in addition to the AMC 
[annual management charge]. F said this was why fund managers were now required to 
inform investors of the T.E.R. (Total Expense Ratio) or O.C.F. (Ongoing Charges Figure). 
F said the charges Phoenix had considered didnt represent all the costs associated with Mrs 
Bs plan, which meant its redress payment was substantially lower than it shouldve been.
As no agreement could be reached Mrs Bs complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice in 1992
In its original complaint to Phoenix, F set out various reasons for why it considered Phoenixs 
1992 advice inappropriate. Ive noted the points F made; however, I dont consider them 
material to my determination of this complaint. I say this because Phoenix has already 
carried out a review of the advice and completed a loss calculation. And in doing so, it has 
essentially already conceded the issue regarding suitability. With this in mind, I consider the issue for me to determine here to be whether Phoenix reviewed the advice Mrs B received to 
transfer her OPS in accordance with the regulators guidance and whether it now needs to 
do anything else to put things right.
The Pension Review and updated guidance
The pension review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to rectify
widespread mis-selling and put customers, as much as possible, back into the position they
wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The financial
business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be reinstated
into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial business
needed to put the consumer back into the position they would have been in by way of a lump
sum pension contribution. Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were
fair at the time, were used in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth
rate of the pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement. Most pension
reviews were done between 1994 and 2003 and the assumptions were revised regularly
during that time.
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time 
that the calculation was done, and compensation paid. This included where mistakes were 
discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually be done using the 
same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt 
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, have had an impact on the benefits 
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following 
the review plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the 
occupational scheme at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
But that alone isnt a reason to redo the pension review and recalculate compensation. The
review was designed to provide finality to both parties and draw a line under the matter 
businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that it wouldnt be liable for future
compensation and consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling had been recognised
and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions
without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was
designed for complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after
3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in full and
final settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the pension review period would be 
excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said some 
cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant pension 
transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the 
particular circumstances of the case were not addressed by those standards.
Fs concern about Phoenixs redress calculations
Phoenix has provided evidence of the calculations it carried out in 2002 which it has said 
were carried out in line with the regulators requirements.
F has said Phoenixs calculations were based on incorrect assumptions about charges which resulted in the value of Mrs Bs PPP being overstated and her redress payment being too 
low. F considers that Phoenix made inadequate provision for the costs of fund management 
in its calculations, saying that the AMC didnt represent the total amount of costs associated 
with Mrs Bs plan. 
With this in mind, Ive carefully considered the relevant policy conditions alongside Phoenixs 
calculations. The policy conditions confirm that two charges applied to Mrs Bs PPP; an 
ongoing management charge of 0.75% and a policy charge which increased annually 
normally in line with inflation. Regarding the policy charge, the conditions specifically said:
The base amount of the policy charge is currently £3.76 per month or £37.60 per year 
(£17.77 per year if contributions cease) but the amount actually deducted from your policy 
will be more than this to take account of future management charges ().
In line with the policy conditions, the calculations showed that Phoenix made provisions for a 
0.75% AMC and a £19.10 policy fee. The higher figure provided for the policy charge reflects 
the yearly increase referred to in the policy conditions. I havent seen anything which 
persuades me that it was unreasonable for Phoenix to use these figures in its calculations.
Ive taken into account what F has said about there being numerous additional fund-related 
charges which an investor pays in addition to the AMC. However, F hasnt specified what 
other charges, in addition to the policy charge and AMC, shouldve been included in 
Phoenixs calculations. Again, I havent seen anything which suggests that Phoenix failed to 
make sufficient provision in its calculation for the total costs associated with Mrs Bs plan.
Its worth noting that as part of the Pension Review, firms were required to put in place strict 
internal and external quality control procedures to ensure that the reviews were carried out in 
line with the regulators guidance. Where errors were found with review work, the cases 
involved would be reworked and additional redress paid if this was due. 
Ive not seen anything to show Phoenix contravened the regulators guidance at the time. 
And I cant use hindsight and say now, on reflection, that the assumptions provide to be so 
wrong that the calculation should be redone.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that Phoenix correctly applied the 
future costs in its calculations on the normal basis of the plan charges applying at the time, 
as required by the regulator. Consequently, Im unable to conclude that Phoenix carried out 
the calculations incorrectly in the way F claims.
Fs concern about where Phoenix paid Mrs Bs redress 
Ive considered Fs point about where Phoenix paid Mrs Bs redress, but I dont agree that 
there was anything appropriate about this. In line with the requirements set by the regulator 
at the time, and to ensure Mrs B was appropriately compensated for losses arising from the 
transfer advice she received, Phoenixs redress offer was made on the assumption that Mrs 
B would remain invested with it as she was  this meant in the International Fund. 
Phoenixs review letters to Mrs B confirmed the redress payment she accepted would be 
made to her PPP by adding units to her International Fund investment. Specifically, it said, 
These extra units will be invested in the same way and under the same conditions () We 
have included the cost of all future charges in the amount we will be paying into your 
personal pension. Im satisfied that Phoenix was clear about where Mrs Bs redress 
payment would be made and on what basis. 
Im not aware of any requirement by the regulator at the time which put Phoenix under any obligation to advise Mrs B on the nature of her existing fund or its suitability. So, Im unable 
to conclude that there was anything inappropriate about where the redress payment was 
made here. Im mindful that Mrs Bs was able to switch to a different fund at any point while 
she had her PPP with Phoenix. And Phoenix did say in its compensation offer letter to Mr B 
that she could seek independent financial advice if she wished to do so. I note that almost 
eight months after accepting Phoenixs offer, Mrs B sought financial advice and later 
transferred her PPP to a new provider where she invested in new funds. 
In the particular circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I havent seen anything which persuades me 
to direct Phoenix to carry out a new calculation using the F9/17 guidance. Based on what 
Ive seen, I consider that Mrs Bs transfer advice was reviewed, and that compensation was 
calculated in line with the regulators guidance and requirements at the time. So, I dont 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman