DRN-1983828
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays in Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his 
residential property owners insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has a landlords insurance policy underwritten by Fairmead, which covers a property 
which he rents out. 
On 3 February 2019, Mr H notified Fairmead that he was making a claim after an escape of 
water in an upstairs flat which had caused damage to his property beneath.
On 7 February, Fairmead told Mr H theyd need some further details from him  including 
quotes for the repair work. He provided this information on 18 and 20 February.
A further quote for the repairs was provided on 6 March after some additional repair work 
had been identified by Mr H.
The property required drying out and Fairmead appointed contractors to do this on 5 March. 
On 13 March 2019, Mr H made a complaint to Fairmead about delays in the handling of the 
claim. At this point, the drying work hadnt yet begun.
Fairmead sent a final response to Mr H on 24 April 2019. They said there had been minor 
delays in suppliers being instructed, primarily due to a surge in storm claims at the time.
They also said the drying work had now begun and that their drying contractors had 
experienced some trouble contacting the tenants to arrange the initial inspection. 
Fairmead apologised for the delays but said they proposed to take no further action.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his compliant to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Fairmead had done anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision form an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important first of all to be absolutely clear about what I can look at in this decision. Mr H 
made a complaint to Fairmead on 13 March 2019. He had a response to that complaint on 
24 April. And because he wasnt happy, he brought that complaint to us.
I understand Mr H believes there have been further delays and problems with Fairmeads 
handling of the claim after 13 March 2019. However, I can only look at the issues relating to 
the period of time before Mr Hs initial complaint to Fairmead. Our investigator has explained 
this situation to Mr H. 
In short, our service operates according to rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). We have no powers other than those given to us by those rules. Theyre called the 
dispute resolution (or DISP) rules.
In essence, those rules say that we cant look into a complaint unless and until the business 
concerned has been given a chance to resolve that complaint first. There are exceptions 
where businesses consent to us getting involved earlier, but those dont apply in this case.
So, I can look at what Fairmead did up until 13 March 2019, when Mr H made his complaint 
to them  and gave them the chance to resolve it for him. 
Mr H is aware that if he wants us to consider any issues  including delays  after that time, 
he needs to make a further complaint to Fairmead. Theyll then have eight weeks to 
respond. If they dont  or they do, and Mr H is unhappy with their response  Mr H can then 
bring that further complaint to us.
I can understand why Mr H was frustrated about the situation he was in by early March 
2019. And its apparent from the correspondence we have on file that his main concern was 
for his tenants, who remained at the property.
However, I dont think Fairmead had done anything wrong at that point. They apologised for 
some very minor delays in appointing suppliers and I think that response was appropriate.
But when I look at the time taken overall up to that point, I can see the complaint was made 
less than six weeks after the claim. And Mr H provided final quotes for the work four weeks 
after Fairmead requested them. Fairmead requested the quotes on 7 February. Mr H 
provided the final version on 6 March.
The drying contractors were appointed on 5 March 2019  a month after the claim was 
made. And had been trying to arrange an inspection with the tenants before 13 March (just 
over a week after theyd been appointed) when Mr H made his complaint.
So, any delays for which Fairmead are responsible in the periods before Mr Hs complaint 
are relatively minor and amount to no more than a few days.
I know Mr H was concerned for his tenants. And I can understand why he may have wanted 
work to start immediately. 
But some inconvenience for Mr H and his tenants was inevitable after the escape of water. 
Fairmead werent responsible for the escape of water. And I cant say that their actions 
before 13 March 2019 made any appreciable difference to how long that period of inevitable 
inconvenience lasted.
I hope Mr H understands why I cant comment in this decision on anything thats happened 
after 13 March 2019. As I say, if hes unhappy with whats happened since then, he can 
make a further complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman