DRN-4403885
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt complete an international payment.
 What happened
Mr A made an international payment to Saudi Arabia on 7 May 2023  the GBP equivalent 
was £19,604. It didnt reach the beneficiary and was refunded on 9 August 2023  
GBP19,079. The difference was due to exchange rate movements. The payment was to pay 
for Mr As pilgrimage to Mecca  the Haj.
The payment didnt reach the beneficiary in time to pay for Mr As trip. It was held for 
regulatory checks by the intermediary bank. Mr A made an additional debit card payment on 
15 May 2023 for the amount needed. But this didnt reach the beneficiary in time for the trip 
to be fulfilled, and Mr As trip was cancelled. I understand that was refunded separately  
and doesnt form part of this complaint.
Mr A called HSBC at least eight times between 9 May 2023 and 15 May 2023 - to find out 
about the payment. HSBC messaged Mr A on 15 May 2023 to ask for additional information 
needed to process the payment.
Mr A complained. He said:
- He called HSBC ahead of the transaction to explain he was making the payment and 
its purpose.
- At no point of the transaction was it possible to put purpose of payment.
- He made several calls to HSBC about the payment and at no point was he notified 
there was a problem with it.
- In the call on 15 May 2023, he was told the payment hadnt left HSBC  not that it 
was held at the intermediary bank.
- He hadnt provided HSBC with the information they needed (requested 15 May 2023) 
as he hadnt given them his passport number  so the final response was wrong.
- Because the payment didnt reach the beneficiary in time, the trip was cancelled.
- As a result of what happened, he couldnt make the trip of a lifetime. This was an 
obligatory part of his religion. Such is the demand for the pilgrimage, hes unlikely to 
get another chance to make it.
On 16 May 2023, HSBC said an international payment could be delayed for several reasons 
 for regulatory checks. In Mr As case, the payment was held by the intermediary bank for 
additional checks and information. The information had now been received by HSBC and 
was being sent to the requesting bank. HSBC apologised for some poor service received by 
Mr A when he called.
Mr A didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC should pay 
compensation of £300. HSBC failed to notify Mr A that the payment hadnt been successful 
and that more information was needed from him. She said that if they had done so, it was 
likely the payment wouldve been completed in time and Mr A couldve made the trip.
Mr A didnt accept this and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. So it came to 
me to do that. We asked more questions of HSBC and they agreed to meet the exchange 
loss of £525.01, as well as paying the compensation of £300.
Mr A didnt accept HSBCs offer and said he would accept £1,558.01 to settle  being the 
exchange loss of £525.01, calls (£33) and compensation of £1,000.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Mr A needed the payment to reach the beneficiary by 15 May 2023 (or thereabouts) or the 
trip would be cancelled. He was aware the money hadnt been received in Saudi Arabia and 
contacted HSBC several times between 9 May 2023 and 15 May 2023. He showed us 
evidence that the trip was cancelled on 15 May 2023  so even though he made an 
additional payment on that day with his debit card, it was too late to stop the cancellation.
So  Mr A couldnt make the trip. 
It is the case (as HSBCs final response said) that international payments may be delayed 
due to regulatory checks, either by the final recipient bank, or at the intermediary bank which 
processes a payment. Mr A accepts this to be reasonable and understands that. But  he 
says that HSBCs communications let him down  as he wasnt told that there was a problem 
with the payment, or that more information was needed.
Firstly, there are three points to Mr As complaint which Ive considered and which Ive set 
aside:
- Mr A says he called HSBC before making the payment and explained its purpose  
so the delays shouldve been avoided. Ive considered that  but any such call wont 
ensure that regulatory checks arent made by banks which are party to a payment  
each payment is considered in the context of criteria set down by each bank to 
decide which payments to look at more closely. And an advanced call isnt likely to 
help. So, Mr As call wouldnt have helped here. 
- Mr A says he was told on 15 May 2023  that the payment hadnt left HSBC. So  
HSBCs final response was wrong. But Ive listened to the call in question, and he 
wasnt told that  HSBCs call handler said more information was needed for the 
payment to be processed. 
- Mr A said he hadnt provided his passport number  but I listened to the call on 15 
May 2023  and he gave HSBCs call handler his passport number on the call. 
So  the crux of this complaint comes down to what happened with the payment and what 
HSBCs communications were. Ive seen HSBCs documents  and what happened was:
- 7 May 2023  payment made by Mr A.
- 9 May 2023: The intermediary bank contacted HSBC and asked for the purpose of 
the payment and Mr As passport details.
- HSBC didnt respond and the payment was rejected by the intermediary bank on 15 May 2023 (and Mr As trip was cancelled).
- HSBC provided the information to the intermediary bank on 19 May 2023  which 
was of course too late to prevent the return of funds.
HSBC havent provided evidence which explains why Mr A wasnt contacted between 9 May 
2023 and 15 May 2023  to get the information requested by the intermediary bank. But  he 
clearly wasnt contacted. And  its reasonable to say that he shouldve been.
And Ive listened to the calls made by Mr A to HSBC on 9 May 2023, 11 May 2023, 12 May 
2023, 13 May 2023, 14 May 2023, and 15 May 2023. Each time, Mr A explained why the 
payment was so important to him  and asked what the hold ups were, and when it would be 
received by the beneficiary bank. On each call, Mr A became more and more concerned as 
the days passed.
But  on none of the calls was Mr A advised there was a problem with the payment, nor that 
it had been held pending further information needed. Even though  HSBC must have had a 
note in their records to say that was the case.
If the need for the information had been picked up by HSBCs call handlers and /or HSBC 
had contacted Mr A on 9 May 2023 (or shortly thereafter) with the information request, then 
its reasonable to say that its likely the information wouldve been provided by Mr A, then 
sent to the intermediary bank. And Im persuaded that the payment would then likely have 
been processed and received by the beneficiary. And  Mr As trip wouldve gone ahead.
So  HSBC were at fault in not doing that.
I also noted that the funds werent returned to Mr A until August 2023  and that caused him 
a further concern. While I cant hold HSBC directly responsible for the further delay in 
returning the funds to Mr A (they were held by the intermediary bank) its reasonable to say 
that the refund wouldnt have been needed if the payment had been successfully processed 
in the first place.
So  I need to consider the appropriate amount of compensation here. HSBC have agreed 
to pay £825.01 (exchange loss £525.01, compensation £300). We look at each case in their 
individual circumstances. Given what happened, I think the refund of the exchange loss is 
reasonable and appropriate.
Turning to the compensation, weve set out some criteria to decide awards. This says an 
award up to around £750 might be fair where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that 
needs a lot of extra effort to sort out  and where the impact may last over some months.
Im persuaded that the impact on Mr A here was severe enough to warrant a larger payment 
of £750. I say that because  he couldnt go on the Haj pilgrimage, which was so important 
to him because of his religion; and he says he may not get another opportunity in his lifetime. 
And - he made multiple calls which took a lot of time, and on each one it was clear his stress 
and anxiety was increasing.
The compensation level is at the top end of the range we would normally see, but given the 
particular circumstances here, I think it is justified.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr A accepted the findings. HSBC didnt respond.I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A accepted the provisional decision, and HSBC didnt respond, my final decision is the 
same as the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
- Reimburse the exchange loss of £525.01.
- Pay compensation of £750 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman