DRN-3878055
The complaint
Mr S complains that Basset Gold Limited, an appointed representative of Gallium Fund 
Solutions Limited, mis-sold him an investment in 2017. He says the firm misled him as to the 
level of risk the bond involved.
What happened
Mr S invested in a B&G Plc Three-year fixed monthly income IFISA Bond. Sales of this 
bond were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), 
the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a 
website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr S investment in the bond
Mr S says he visited BG Ltd website in November 2017 after searching online for savings 
products.  At the time of application he was retired, had no risk bearing investment 
experience and didnt want to take any risk with his initial capital.
In total Mr S applied to invest £20,000 in the bond. The bond he invested in offered an 
interest rate 6.12% per year, income payable and the invested capital to be returned after 
three years.
When Mr S referred his complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with copies of some call recordings, including recordings of 
conversations he had with BG Ltd before and during the bond application. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr S 
has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr S says when he applied for the bond online, he also had help over the phone by BG Ltd. 
A separate spreadsheet we received from the administrators on behalf BG Ltd confirmed BG 
Ltd received and accepted Mr S online application form on 22 November 2017.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I think it is most likely that Mr S did initially 
complete an online application. While he does appear to have had some telephone contact 
with BG Ltd, from what Ive seen I think he would have still been required to apply online 
first. So Ive examined the online application process to help me reach my decision.  
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr S underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr S 
was categorised as everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr S complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said Mr S had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ss 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr S as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
The website and marketing material was misleading.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr S to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr 
S for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Ss complaint.
The website and marketing material was not misleading - Mr S was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings.
Regardless of label, Mr S was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr S giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr S made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, he would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the reasons Ive given below. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr S into certifying himself as belonging in 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr S fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr S, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr S. In the circumstances Mr S would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr S.
The advertising or marketing of the bond by BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, was not 
consistent with Galliums regulatory obligations. It was not clear, fair and not 
misleading. By advertising or marketing the bond in the way it did, BG Ltd did not act 
in a way that was in Mr Ss best interests or treat him fairly. Had BG Ltds advertising or marketing been clear, fair and not misleading Mr S would likely have concluded 
the bond was not the sort of investment for him.
Having listened to the calls Mr S had with BG Ltd I think that he was given 
information that wasnt clear, fair and not misleading. On a call on 11 September 
2017 which was prior to him taking out the bond he asked for more detail on the 
bonds. He was told that they were fully asset backed - generally in property but could 
be in other areas where BG Ltds lawyers had fully carried out due diligence - and if 
anything were to go wrong then the assets would be sold and the investors money 
returned. On a call on 14 November 2017 which was prior to taking out the bond, he 
was told that if anything were to happen to BG Ltd then his capital would be fully 
returned as they were regulated by the FCA and had FSCS protection.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr S would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr S for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
S as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr S 's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr S 's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
It is also clear that Mr S has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the 
loss of his investment. Given his circumstances, this is money Mr S cannot afford to 
lose, nor is it money he is able to replace. I do not believe Mr S foresaw such a 
drastic loss and I recognise the considerable worry he will have felt when B&G Plc 
failed. I consider a payment of £150 is fair compensation for the upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 
BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr S agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr S that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without taking much risk with his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S 's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with little 
risk to their capital
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, 
simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman