DRN-3292066
The complaint
Mr L complains that AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest (AJ Bell) 
delayed the transfer of another of his pension plans to it. He would like compensation for the 
inconvenience and investment losses he says were incurred.
What happened
Mr L had a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP) with Curtis Banks and wanted to 
transfer to AJ Bell. He wanted to transfer most of his plans investments in specie rather 
than first selling them and then transferring cash. Mr L says he requested the transfer on 12 
January 2021. But it was 19 April 2021 before the majority of the transfer was received by AJ 
Bell, with further funds being received subsequently. Mr L says there were unacceptable 
delays and unnecessary administrative procedures.    
Mr L complained to both AJ Bell and Curtis Banks about the delays. He said the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Conduct of Business (COBS) regulations required transfers to be 
executed within a reasonable time and in an efficient manner. Mr L also referred his 
complaint to our service saying it was ridiculous to take over 3 months to do what should 
have been a simple transfer, which he estimated had cost him £3,000 in lost investment 
returns. 
AJ Bell didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said whilst it hadnt met its expected internal 
timescales to complete one part of the transfer process, it didnt think its processing had 
been unreasonable or caused a material delay. Because there had been delays at Curtis 
Banks, over which it had no control. It said the timescales estimated in its literature for in 
specie transfers were only approximate, due to the many separate processes involved, so it 
wasnt possible to give exact timeframes. However, it offered Mr L £50 as an ex gratia 
payment in view of the time taken to issue our acceptance of your assets from Curtis 
Banks. Mr L didnt accept this.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint. But she didnt uphold it.
She said COBS doesnt state actual timeframes for transfers to be completed other than that 
they should be reasonable and dealt with in an efficient manner. She said as pension 
transfers involved many steps, anyone of which might cause a delay. So, rather than 
considering the overall length of time to complete a transfer it was necessary to look if there 
had been avoidable delays between each step. And based on the timeline of events she 
thought there had only been one avoidable delay in responding to a valuation provided by 
Curtis Banks.
She said AJ Bell had explained its internal working day target to complete this stage of the 
transfer. And it accepted that this had been missed by three days. But she said that it had 
also explained that no two transfers were the same, which is why it didnt guarantee any 
timeframe and hadnt made any assurances of when the process would be complete. Our 
investigator said this was why COBS doesnt give a definitive timeline for transfers to be 
completed. She said the £50 already offered by AJ Bell as an ex gratia payment was fair for 
this type of delay.
Mr L didnt agree. He said considering the individual steps rather than the overall process 
wasnt fair and reasonable, but that AJ Bell had failed on the individual steps as follows:
1. He said he initiated the transfer on 10 January 2021 and both Curtis Banks and AJ 
Bell were notified at the time and it wasnt reasonable that Curtis Banks didnt receive 
the transfer forms until 10 February 2021.
2. He said the time taken by Curtis Banks to provide the valuation requested by AJ Bell 
wasnt reasonable and AJ Bell should have chased it up as there was clearly a 
delay.
3. He said the transfer hadnt been completed by 22 March 2021 as the majority of the 
funds hadnt been credited to his AJ Bell account until 19 April 2021, so another 
month had been lost. With subsequent smaller amounts not paid until 1 June 2021.  
4. He said there were unnecessary delays from both AJ Bell and Curtis Banks and as 
these were simple transfers it was:
unreasonable to allow financial institutions to avoid the provision of systems 
and procedures that would enable such transfers to be completed in days, not 
months. 
As Mr L doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate financial 
businesses, which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell AJ 
Bell or other financial services firms to change administrative procedures or impose 
sanctions on them if I think there have been failings. What I can consider is whether a 
businesss mistakes caused someone a financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience 
and, if so, what the business needs to do to put things right. 
I am only considering AJ Bells role in the transfer in this complaint and Mr Ls complaint 
about Curtis Banks has been dealt with separately by our service. Ive taken into account 
everything Mr L has said but I dont think AJ Bell was responsible for avoidable delays in 
processing his transfer.
Pension transfers can be complicated with many processes for both the transferring and 
receiving pension arrangement. Sometimes third parties are involved, which means 
timeframes are outside the complete control of the pension providers themselves. 
Mr L says he initiated the transfer on 10 January 2021, but AJ Bell didnt receive all the 
required paperwork from him until 21 January 2021. It completed this and wrote to Curtis 
Banks enclosing various documents on 1 February 2021. Curtis Banks says it didnt receive 
this until 10 February 2021. AJ Bell received its response on 23 February 2021. So, even 
allowing for a longer than usual time for the documents to reach Curtis Banks, this was a 
sixteen working day turnaround, which I dont think is unreasonable. With the other 
processes involved had AJ Bell chased Curtis Banks for an update after a week or so to be advised the documents hadnt been received, no time would have been saved if theyd been 
resent.
Once it received Curtis Banks response, AJ Bell didnt confirm it would accept the transfer 
until the 14 March 2021. This was three working days outside its ten-day internal target for 
this stage of the process. 
Once it had accepted the transfer both Mr L and AJ Bell were waiting for Curtis Banks to 
complete further processes of its own to allow the investments to be transferred by a third 
party in specie, which was completed on 9 April 2021. Curtis Banks then sent the cash 
balance of Mr Ls plan with it on 14 April 2021. This was received by AJ Bell on 19 April 
2021, three working days later. Some amounts were received subsequently, which isnt 
uncommon as the old provider will often receive dividends and tax credits for some months 
after a transfer, which it will pay over from time to time.
AJ Bell accepts it missed an internal target on one part of the process giving a three-day 
delay. However, it wasnt providing any guarantee about time frames to complete the 
transfer and I dont think the actual time it took to process each stage of the transfer was 
unreasonable. 
So, I dont think AJ Bell has treated Mr L unfairly. AJ Bell has already made an offer to pay 
Mr L £50 to settle the complaint and has confirmed that this offer is still available. Mr L 
should contact it directly if he now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman