DRN-3250631
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to action his subject access request 
appropriately. In addition, he complains that it threatened to close his account due to the 
amount of complaints raised. 
What happened
In February 2021, Mr C made a subject access request (SAR). Barclays sent the requested 
information to Mr C via an online link in March 2021, but he was unable to access it. So in 
April 2021, he raised a complaint. 
Barclays upheld the complaint, as it said it had failed to send the passcode needed to 
access the information. It offered £25 compensation for what went wrong and agreed to post 
the information to Mr Cs home address. 
Barclays sent Mr C several new online links and passcodes, but he continued to have 
problems accessing them. As he hadnt received it by post as agreed, in May 2021 he asked 
that his complaint be reopened. 
Barclays said it had asked its team to send the information by post as well as digitally, which 
is why Mr C had received new online links. It said the posted copy could take approximately 
30 days to arrive. It upheld the complaint, as it accepted this hadnt been made clear, and 
offered a further £25 compensation. The information was sent by courier shortly after. 
Mr C remains unhappy. He says Barclays failed to action his SAR within the time limits and 
he had to call multiple times to get the information posted to him. He doesnt think the £50 
offered fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
Barclays doesnt accept it needs to do anything more. It says the SAR was actioned within 
the time limits. And whilst it accepts it didnt send the passcode initially, Mr C didnt make it 
aware of this for almost six weeks. As soon as it was aware, it took steps to send new digital 
links as well as a posted copy.
Whilst the above problems were ongoing, Barclays wrote to Mr C in April 2021 to say that it 
may close or restrict access to his account. It explained that he had raised 21 separate 
complaints over an eight-month period which could be deemed as vexatious. And that 
unreasonable conduct could result in Barclays ending its banking relationship with him in line 
with the account terms and conditions. 
Mr C was unhappy that Barclays had threatened to close his account. He says many of his 
complaints have been upheld and he wasnt aware there was a limit on how many he could 
bring. He brought his concerns and his SAR complaint to our service to investigate.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. She explained that Barclays 
is entitled to close an account, provided it gives reasonable notice of doing so. She said the 
number of complaints Mr C had raised in a short space of time did appear to be high and it 
was Barclays decision on how it measured customer behaviour. 
In regard to the SAR, our investigator acknowledged there had been some failings. But she 
was satisfied Barclays had complied with it within the set time limits and it was unfortunate 
Mr C had been unable to access the information. She thought the £50 compensation offered 
was a fair reflection of what went wrong, and she didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
Mr C accepted our investigators response to his concerns about the account closure letter. 
But he didnt accept her outcome on Barclays handling of his SAR  so this part of his 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Barclays made errors when handling Mr Cs SAR. It acknowledges 
that it failed to send the passcode with the original link. And that it didnt provide clear 
information on how long the posted copy would take. So I dont need to make a finding on 
whether Barclays has done something wrong  it has. What I need to decide is whether 
Barclays has done enough to put things right.
Our service can make awards of compensation where we see that a business has done 
something wrong or unfair. But when we do so, it isnt intended to punish or fine the 
business for what it did wrong. Its recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
the customer, and it should be a proportionate reflection of the impact the businesss actions 
have had.
Im aware that Mr C had to call Barclays on several occasions regarding his SAR. And he 
raised his complaint points separately, as and when errors occurred. As such, Barclays paid 
compensation on two separate occasions  totalling £50. Our service doesnt award 
compensation for each individual mistake. Instead, we take a holistic view of everything 
thats happened and make an award based on the overall impact.
Based on what Ive seen, Im in no doubt that Barclays actions caused Mr C unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. He wasnt sent all the details needed initially to access the 
information. And he continued to receive online links and passcodes after requesting that it 
be sent by post. I can understand how frustrating this wouldve been. 
Ive also thought about Barclays comments that it sent the initial SAR response on 
9 March 2021 and Mr C didnt complain that he couldnt access it until 16 April 2021  almost 
six weeks later. So when considering the amount of time this took for Barclays to resolve, 
Ive been mindful that some of the delays were outside of its control. 
Barclays arranged for the information to be couriered to Mr C on 17 May 2021  which is 
four weeks after the initial complaint was raised and it was notified of the problems Mr C was 
experiencing in accessing the information digitally. I dont think this was an unreasonable 
amount of time, and it was in line with the time frames Mr C was later advised of by Barclays 
in its complaint response.
Barclays also say that its not clear why Mr C hasnt been able to access the information 
through the links. It says each time a new online link is sent, it generates a new passcode 
which is sent separately. Barclays has questioned whether Mr C has used the correct link 
and passcode combination. Given that a total of eight have been sent out, I can appreciate that it may have become 
confusing. In any event, it was unclear to Mr C why he was receiving new links as he hadnt 
been told the information was being sent digitally as well as by post.
In summary, Im satisfied Barclays did respond to the SAR within the time limits, but it failed 
to provide the information needed to access it. Whilst this is Barclays error, Im mindful that 
it wasnt informed for some time which prevented it from correcting the problem any sooner. 
Once it became aware, it sent out new links and passcodes as well as requesting a posted 
copy which was sent within four weeks. 
I do agree that Barclays couldve been clearer with Mr C on the steps it was taking to resolve 
the initial complaint. But Im satisfied it was doing everything it could to get the information to 
him and any impact wouldve been limited to a four-week period of distress and 
inconvenience.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that £50 compensation is a fair reflection of 
what went wrong, the impact this had and the length of time it took to resolve. I appreciate 
Mr C doesnt agree but I havent seen anything to persuade me that Barclays need to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman