DRN-1979514
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declining a claim 
under her buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs P suffered damage to the gable end wall of her property following a 
storm and made a claim on her home insurance policy. A loss adjuster was appointed to visit 
Mrs Ps property and validate the claim and check that the damage was covered under the 
terms of the home insurance policy.
Mrs P became concerned about the safety of the damaged area and provided photographs 
to the loss adjuster. After reviewing these photographs, the loss adjuster concluded that the 
damage wasnt covered under the policy. It said that the damage in the pictures wasnt 
consistent with storm damage and that it was most likely the wall was already damaged 
before the storm, which had only highlighted the existing issues. And as the issue had been 
caused gradually over time, it wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. So it declined 
the claim and cancelled its visit to Mrs Ps property.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that while it 
seems there was a storm, he agreed with Lloyds that the damage wasnt consistent with 
damage typically caused by a storm. So he didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly in declining 
the claim. Mrs P disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this is going to be 
disappointing for Mrs P but Ive explained my reasons for this below. 
Mrs P believes Lloyds acted unfairly in declining her claim. So, Ive considered whether 
Lloyds has acted reasonably or not in saying Mrs P isnt covered under her policy for the 
damage to her gable end wall. 
Ive looked at Mrs Ps policy documents to see what cover her policy provides. Her policy 
covers damage caused by a list of particular events, such as storm. When we consider 
storm damage, we ask three questions; 
Has it been proven, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred? 
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the prevailing storm conditions the main or dominant case of the damage?
Its only if we can answer yes to all three questions that we can say the insurer is liable to 
pay the claim. 
In this case, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that there was a storm around the time 
Mrs P reported the claim. The weather data provided by Lloyds shows poor weather 
conditions at the local weather station. And while there was some debate about the exact 
speed of the winds, there is no debate that a storm occurred even if it didnt reach the exact 
wind speeds as defined in the policy, so I dont think I need to consider this aspect of the 
claim any further.
The next issue I have considered is whether the nature of the damage is consistent with 
storm damage. While it isnt dispute that there was a storm, the local weather station 
recorded the speed of the winds to be around 47 mph, although I accept that this is some 
distance from Mrs Ps home and the speeds near her property could have been higher. But 
while these are fairly strong winds, I wouldnt expect a storm of this nature to cause a gable 
end wall to collapse or for it to cause the significant structural damage that Mrs Ps property 
experienced so Im not satisfied that the nature of the damage is consistent with storm 
damage.
I have also considered whether I believe the storm was the main or dominant cause of the 
damage. But as Ive said, I wouldnt expect a gable end wall that had been adequately 
maintained and had no previous issues to collapse under the storm conditions noted in 
January 2020. The loss adjuster has reviewed the pictures of Mrs Ps property and believes 
there was previous wear and tear to the property and that the correct supports were not in 
place as they should have been. And therefore, based on what Ive seen and the comments 
from the loss adjuster, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to conclude that the storm 
highlighted an existing problem with the property, rather than causing it  which isnt covered 
under the policy.
Finally I have considered whether there are any other sections of the policy that Mrs P could 
make a claim for and I havent seen anything which suggests she could make a claim under 
the remaining terms of the policy.
So while I understand that Mrs P will be disappointed with decision, I dont think Lloyds acted 
unfairly in declining her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 
29 October 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman