DRN-2666408
The complaint
Mr B complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited didnt extend the term of his term 
assurance policy in March 2005 and March 2010. Mr B says he was left short of life cover 
and had to arrange a new policy with a lower sum assured and a higher premium because of 
his age.
What happened
Mr B took out a term assurance plan with Standard Life. The term of the plan was 20 years 
and included an option that allowed him to increase the term up to 35 years in March 2005, 
or March 2010. The premium on the policy was fixed until February 2010 but reduced slightly 
from this point. When Standard Life collected the wrong monthly premium in March 2010 
they wrote to Mr B in April to tell him and the letter reminded him that if he would like to use 
the extension option he should contact them by 30 April. Mr B wrote to Standard Life on 9 
September to say he had only just received the April letter and asked what the extension 
option was. Standard Life provided an explanation by post on 20 September.
Mr B made a further enquiry about the extension option in June 2019 and Standard Life 
explained the option had expired in March 2010. Mr B complained to Standard Life in March 
2020 that they hadnt implemented the extension option. Standard Life said theyd written to 
Mr B about his option to extend the term of the plan, but he didnt respond. They confirmed 
the policy had been in effect until 15 March 2020 and they would have paid out the full 
amount of life cover if there had been a valid claim. Mr B wrote to Standard Life again in July 
2020 and said he had requested the extension option in March 2005 and again in 2010. In 
their response, Standard Life said theyd been unable to find any evidence of an instruction 
from him to apply for the extension in 2005 or 2010.
Mr B wasnt happy with the responses Standard Life provided and brought his complaint to 
our service. Standard Life consented to us investigating the complaint and one of our 
investigators looked into things for him. Our investigator thought Standard Life hadnt done 
anything wrong as there is no evidence Mr B instructed Standard Life to extend the policy, 
even after Mr B received the April 2010 letter they sent him.
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide his 
complaint. It has now been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sure that Mr B will be disappointed but for much the same reasons as our investigator 
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I will now explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether Standard Life received instructions from Mr B to 
exercise the extension option. However, I must also consider whether Standard Life took 
reasonable steps to remind Mr B the extension option was available until March 2010. The 
policy documentation provided the key dates for Mr B to be aware of, but these documents 
were issued in 2000. I would expect Standard Life to inform Mr B that the final option to 
extend the term was available in March 2010. I wouldnt expect Mr B to necessarily have 
recalled from the time of the sale what the extension option was, when it could be taken and 
when it ended.
Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me Mr B asked Standard Life to exercise the 
extension option in March 2005. And, Standard Life says they have no record of Mr B asking 
for the extension at this time, either in writing or on the telephone. So, it seems more likely 
there was no request to exercise the extension option at this time. Although Mr B says he 
wouldve extended the term of the policy in 2005 I think this was unlikely as he didnt take up 
the option to extend in 2010 or make any further enquiries to do so.
Im satisfied Standard Lifes April 2010 letter to Mr B explained the premiums had decreased 
in line with the policy terms. The letter also explained Mr B had an extension option on his 
policy. Standard Life explained that because they had made an error in collecting the 
previous months premium, they would offer a concession to allow Mr B to exercise the 
extension option until 30 April 2010. I consider the March 2010 option date is the most 
crucial date in this complaint as it was the last time Mr B could extend the term. So, Im 
persuaded Standard Life acted reasonably here when they recognised the premium had 
been taken in error and reminded Mr B that the extension option was available for a further 
month. 
I acknowledge Mr Bs says he didnt receive the April letter until September, but Ive seen the 
letter was correctly addressed, and because of this I consider it unlikely it was lost in the 
post for several months. However, regardless of this, Mr B has confirmed he did receive the 
letter albeit in September. I consider this is important as the letter explained the extension 
option existed. But, Mr Bs letter to Standard Life in September 2010 didnt ask whether they 
would consider extending the option term because he hadnt received their April letter. 
Instead, Mr B asked what the extension option was. Then, after Standard Life explained the 
extension option in a further letter to him, theres nothing to suggest Mr B asked them to 
consider the extension option because he hadnt received the April letter. So, Im persuaded 
its unlikely Mr B instructed Standard Life to exercise the extension option at any time during 
the term of the policy.
Mr B believes the Standard Life letter of April 2010 was sent as a result of a telephone call 
he made to Standard Life the previous month in which he requested the extension option. 
The April letter confirmed a premium reduction. There is no mention of Mr B having applied 
to extend the term, but it does remind him he had until the end of the month to apply. So, Im 
satisfied the April letter is unlikely to be a response to a discussion between Mr B and 
Standard Life about the extension, nor is there anything that persuades me Mr B requested 
an extension in March 2005 or 2010.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman