DRN-2839951
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him unsuitable investment advice. He says too 
much of his money was invested, at too great a risk, and at a time when his future was 
uncertain. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
In or around March 1999, Mr T received a lump sum of £125,000 and sought investment 
advice from Lloyds. Lloyds recommended he invested £100,000 in its asset management 
service (AMS), which included a PEP and, later, ISA investment. 
Around three years later he gave instructions to close the AMS  he asked for the 
investments to be sold and the PEP and ISA transferred.
Mr Ts representative says that at the time of the investment Mr T was vulnerable and he 
should have been given more time to adjust to his new situation before making investment 
decisions. It says Lloyds recommended too high a proportion of his available money was 
invested and that the investment held too much risk for a first-time investor.
Lloyds said that, whilst Mr T had undergone a change in circumstances, there was no 
indication that he was vulnerable. It said the recommendation left him with £35,000 in cash, 
around 25% of the money he had available, and that the risk profile of the AMS was suitable 
in Mr Ts circumstances.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that the investment wasnt suitable for Mr T.
Mr Ts representative didnt agree saying, in summary, that the level of risk recommended to 
Mr T was too high for him as a first time and inexperienced investor. It said that half of his 
investment was in medium risk equities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
Timing of the investment
Ive not seen evidence to suggest that Mr T was vulnerable when the advice was given. 
I accept the lump sum came about as a result of a traumatic experience, but Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that, when he sought advice from Lloyds, he told it he was experiencing 
any mental health issues.
Mr T knew he was going to experience a change of circumstances, but I think he had 
considered this carefully and had planned for his future. He knew he was going to have to 
change his career. But he didnt leave his employment until more than two years after this 
investment was made. And he had made plans at an early stage for re-training and for a new 
job. 
He also knew he would be receiving a lump sum, which he wanted to invest. 
Around three years after he received the investment advice, Mr T told Lloyds he was moving 
overseas. But, at the time of the investment advice, there was nothing to suggest Mr Ts 
circumstances would be changing again in the short term.
Overall, I dont find there was anything to suggest that Mr T needed more time to consider 
his situation, and I dont find the timing of the investment was unsuitable.
Amount invested
Lloyds recommended Mr T keep £35,000 as a cash reserve which was around 25% of the 
money he had available. Its likely that when he changed careers he would need to take a 
drop in salary, but he also received a lump sum from his old employer when he left. Taking 
into account his day to day needs and future plans, I dont find that it was unsuitable to 
invest £100,000 in the AMS.
Mr T did need to withdraw money from the AMS because, by his own admission, he was 
concerned that hed overspent. He did buy an expensive car, which I cant see hed planned 
to do when he sought the investment advice. So, although he did need to withdraw money 
from the AMS, I dont think Lloyds could have foreseen this based on the information Mr T 
would have given it in March 1999.
Risk profile
Lloyds has not been able to provide a copy of the fact find that, in all likelihood, would have 
been completed at the time. I dont find that unreasonable or unsurprising given the time 
thats passed. And, as this happened so long ago, I cant be certain exactly what was 
discussed and agreed about Mr Ts attitude to risk. So I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr T was a first-time investor, but it doesnt automatically follow that he had a low risk 
attitude to investment. He was young, had no dependants, and had planned to invest for 
several years. I dont think it was unsuitable for Lloyds to recommend a proportion of his 
money was invested in medium risk investments with the prospect of higher returns. Lloyds 
recommended a proportion of Mr Ts money was invested in secure and cautious 
investments, so the overall risk was not too high.
Taking into account all the circumstances here, I dont find the overall level of risk was 
unsuitable for Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman