DRN-3388625
The complaint
Mr W complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Portal Financial Services 
LLP (Portal) to transfer a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with a 
former employer to a Personal Pension (PP). 
Mr W is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by him.
What happened
In 2015, Mr W approached Portal after seeing an advert online. On 7 July 2015, Portal wrote 
to Mr W noting he had OPS with a transfer value of £28,580 that was projected to pay a 
pension of £1,154 per annum from age 65. It set out the critical yield and identified some 
options available to Mr W, including doing nothing or transferring the benefits to access TFC 
with different options for his remaining fund. It also noted he had a personal pension (PP) 
with a transfer value of £77,400, that his provider had told it hed already taken the maximum 
tax free cash (TFC) from.
On 21 July 2015, Portal gathered information about Mr Ws circumstances and objectives. At 
the time, Mr W was 55 years old and living with his partner. He was employed, earning 
£27,000 per year and he had no savings. He told Portal he lived in a property he owned 
worth around £120,000, with an outstanding mortgage of £76,000 that he was paying £500 a 
month towards, which was £3,000 in arrears. Mr W had two loans totalling around £17,000 
with repayments of £530 per month. And Portal suggested Mr W had a moderately 
adventurous attitude to risk (ATR). 
A few weeks later, Portal sent Mr W a letter confirming hed told it he wanted to leave his PP 
in place, as hed already taken TFC from it. And that if he still wanted to release a lump sum 
from his OPS then it needed to make him aware of the risks and tax hed pay, which it set 
out. It also identified the updated options available to him as:
Option 1: Take the entire proceeds of your OPS as a lump sum
Option 2: Take the TFC and a reduced taxable lump sum
Option 3: Do nothing 
On 16 September 2015, after Mr W chose Option 1, Portal wrote to him summarising some 
of his OPS benefits and it recommended he didnt transfer out of this. Included was an 
options form and an insistent client form, which also asked Mr W to say why he wanted to 
access his pension fund early against its advice. And the option form asked him to choose 
between:
Option 1: Stripping the fund  Taking TFC of £7,145 and then a taxable lump sum of 
£21,435. He would be treated as an insistent client.
Option 2: Do Nothing  Our recommendation. 
On 21 September 2015, Mr W replied saying he wanted to strip his fund to pay off debts, 
which he was having difficulty repaying due to a wage cut, and that this would give him a 
better standard of living. He said his health wasnt very good at the time and this would help 
ease the burden of everyday living. 
On 24 September 2015, Portal sent Mr W a suitability report which said his aims were to 
clear debt and make home improvements. It said that despite recommending Mr W leave his 
OPS where it was, it was treating him as an insistent client and recommended he transfer 
his benefits into a new PP to take this as TFC and a taxable lump sum. It said consideration 
of Mr Ws ATR wasnt appropriate, as he wouldnt be investing the funds. And it asked Mr W 
to sign a declaration saying he understood the benefits hed be giving up. 
Mr W accepted the insistent client recommendation and his OPS benefits were transferred. 
He then took his entire pension fund in TFC and as a taxable lump sum.
In 2020, Mr W complained to Portal via a representative about its transfer advice saying, in 
summary, that he wasnt truly an insistent client  it was a papering exercise and the 
documents were pre-drafted. He said Portal failed to explain what an insistent client was, 
along with the risks and benefits he was giving up. Mr W said he didnt have the knowledge 
or experience to make such a decision, or any capacity for loss. And that alternatives werent 
explored, such as managing his finances differently to be able to clear his debts. 
Portal responded saying that Mr W chose to transfer his OPS against its advice, despite 
being made aware of the risks and benefits hed be giving up. And that he had specific 
reasons for doing so, which hed set out in his own words. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W came to our service, adding that he needed a lot of home 
improvements doing all in one go and the only way he could raise the capital to do so was by 
cashing in his OPS. Mr W said some of these were desperate and he had no other funds he 
could call on. He also said his partner had to finish work due to three heart attacks and is still 
very unwell, so he didnt want to take out further credit out with only one income coming in. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. While he had some concerns about 
the process Portal followed, he said Mr W was made sufficiently aware hed be worse off by 
transferring his OPS. And that, in any case, Mr Ws told us he had an immediate need to 
access his fund and that he had no other way of raising capital. He said Mr W had already 
accessed TFC via his PP. And that he chose to transfer his OPS to prioritise his 
circumstances at the time over his income in retirement. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said he doesnt recall being treated as an insistent client, nor being 
told what this meant. And that the way Portal set out his options enticed him into transferring 
prior to its suitability report being given. He also said the home improvements werent 
desperate. And that Portal didnt consider whether he could have accessed his PP instead. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Having 
done so, while I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed, Im not upholding his complaint for 
largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why. The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from an OPS scheme is that 
it is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
It isnt in dispute that Mr W would be worse off in retirement by transferring out of his OPS. 
And while there might have been some flaws in Portals advice process, Ive also had to take 
into account whether there any considerations which meant the transfer in Mr Ws case was 
suitable, despite him giving up guaranteed benefits that would leave him worse off. 
The documentation Ive seen from the time shows Mr W wanted to clear his debts and make 
home improvements. When exploring alternative ways to generate cash to achieve this 
Portal said Mr W didnt want to take out further lending or re-mortgage, as he was going to 
use the TFC to pay off part of his mortgage. But, in light of Mr Ws aims, I think its likely he 
was referring to repaying his mortgage arrears. And Portal seems to have simply accepted 
hed do so by accessing his funds following the transfer, rather than exploring his 
alternatives. 
While I would have expected Portal to do more to meet its responsibilities under COBS,
I dont think Mr W would have agreed to further lending. In fact, hes told us he didnt want to 
do that, as he would have had to shoulder the repayments alone because his partner had 
stopped working due to severe ill-health. And Im not persuaded Mr W could have managed 
his expenses differently to repay his debts, despite his representative suggesting this. I say 
this because Mr W doesnt dispute that he had no disposable income and Im conscious he 
was the sole earner in the household whod be paying all the expenses. 
I recognise the documentation says Mr W had a PP worth around £77,000, but it also says 
he didnt want to access this any further as hed already taken TFC from it. So I think Mr W 
knew he could do so but chose to approach Portal to transfer his OPS benefits instead, as it 
allowed him to receive £7,145 tax free. I think this shows that accessing as much TFC as 
possible was important to Mr W due to his pressing circumstances at the time. 
Its unclear if Mr W could have accessed his OPS benefits early and taken TFC from it 
instead. But it seems Mr W wouldnt have been able to achieve nearly as much TFC by 
doing so. This is because the suitability report says he may only be entitled to £5,335 upon 
his schemes usual retirement age of 65, which I think is likely to have been reduced even 
further if Mr W could have retired from it early. 
I think Mr Ws mortgage arrears were a priority due to the risk to his home. And hes recently 
told us the home improvements he needed were desperate and mostly needed doing in one 
go due to his partners ill health. Given the situation Mr Ws said he was in and that hes told 
us there was no other way for him to raise the cash he needed, I think he had a strong need 
for TFC and flexibility to draw down further funds which could only be achieved by 
transferring his OPS benefits. And for this reason, overall, I dont think the advice Portal 
gave was unsuitable. This means Im not asking it to do anything in settlement of Mr Ws 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 Holly Jackson
Ombudsman