DRN-3580942
The complaint and what happened
Mr G complains Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse money lost when he fell victim to an 
investment scam. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. He was satisfied Monzo ought to have intervened 
in the first payment made as part of the scam, as it was unusual and uncharacteristic for the 
account. He asked is to reimburse losses from that point. But he also found Mr G was partly 
responsible for his losses; the investment returns anticipated were far too good to be true; 
and Mr G had some misgivings when told he had to pay tax but didnt do any further checks 
due to the business he was investing through being a limited company.  
Monzo has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It said Mr G didnt do 
enough due diligence before deciding to invest; and he paid a crypto asset provider, the 
same merchant he had paid a few weeks before (and not disputed) therefore it was a known 
payee. The crypto asset provider is one of the most reputable crypto exchanges and it had 
no reason to prevent Mr G from making the payment. It considers as the payment was going 
to an account in Mr Gs ownership it had done enough to protect the money. It has further 
argued its not reasonable to assume that all large value crypto purchases are going to be 
scams.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I have read and 
considered everything. Having done so I agree with the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr G authorised the transactions. Whilst he didnt intend to get scammed, he is 
initially presumed liable for the loss. There also doesnt appear to be any dispute he 
has been scammed. Although I havent seen any regulatory warnings against this 
particular merchant, Monzo has referred to online reviews which indicate the 
business was operating a scam. 
Monzo is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at financial risk. And in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments or decline them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams. 
I have looked at the operation of Mr Gs account in the months leading up to the 
disputed transactions, and I agree that the first payment of nearly £6,000 was 
significantly out of character for the account. Mr G rarely made transactions of larger 
than a few hundred pounds, and when he did, that was usually an internal transfer to 
savings. I accept the payment was to a legitimate crypto asset provider that he had 
previously paid. But he had only done so for the first time a few weeks before, and for 
a substantially lower sum. Im not persuaded those factors mean the payment wasnt 
out of character or something Monzo didnt need to be concerned about. 
Monzo has argued the payment was going to an account in Mr Gs ownership and so 
it was safe. I disagree. Just because the account might have been in Mr Gs name, it 
doesnt mean it was in his control or that his money was safe. Both Action Fraud and 
the FCA have been reporting on the prevalence of trading and crypto scams for a 
number of years, intelligence Monzo ought to have taken account of. 
Had Monzo carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr G about the 
payment, I have no reason to doubt he would have explained what he was doing. 
And on that explanation Monzo would have recognised the hallmarks of a scam  
returns that were far too good to be true, the investment opportunity being offered 
through a social media platform and the scammer helping Mr G with all of the steps 
needed to trade. It could have provided information on the steps a customer can take 
to ensure, so far as it reasonably possible, they are dealing with a legitimate 
merchant. And it could have drawn on its knowledge about the high-risks associated 
with crypto-asset trading and fraud and provided a warning. Im satisfied Mr G would 
have heeded a warning from his trusted bank such that the scam would have been 
exposed and Mr G would have stopped investing, thereby preventing his loss. 
I agree Mr G is partly responsible for his losses. It doesnt appear he carried out 
much due diligence before deciding to part with his money. And the offer he was 
made, and the potential returns promised were far too good to be true, such that he 
ought to have been alert to something not being right. And when he did have 
misgivings about needing to make a tax payment, he didnt act on those. Given the 
expertise of the parties and the knowledge imbalance between them, I agree a 20% 
reduction in redress is fair for the part Mr G had to play in his losses.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to:
Reimburse Mr G his losses as a result of this scam, less 20% for his contributory 
negligence  a total of £10,467.54, and
Add 8% simple interest to that sum from the date of loss to the date of settlement, 
less any lawfully deductible tax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman