DRN-1971023
 
The complaint
Mrs T says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a personal 
reserve account. A retailer sold Mrs T the policy, but Allianz Insurance Plc has accepted 
responsibility for the sale.
What happened
The PPI and the account were opened in March 1999. If Mrs T lost her job or was off work 
sick, the policy would pay 15% of what she owed when she stopped working and would do 
this each month until she returned to work or that outstanding balance had been repaid in 
full. The cost of the policy was charged to the account, so Mrs T would repay the extra cost 
with interest in line with the accounts terms and conditions. Mrs T thinks the PPI was mis-
sold.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 1 June 2020. I explained that based on 
what Id seen, I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs T's case. 
Based on what I've seen so far, I don't think the complaint should be upheld. I'll 
explain why. 
Mrs T says she's unhappy with the insurance because the paperwork didn't make it 
clear she'd been sold the insurance. She says she wasn't told anything about the PPI 
- it just appeared on her statements. So I've thought about this alongside the other 
information I've seen about the sale. 
Because of the time that's passed, Allianz can't now send us copies of the paperwork 
from when Mrs T applied for the card. But that's not unreasonable: based on what 
I've seen, the policy started in 1999 and it looks as though the policy ended in 2004 - 
over 15 years ago. Allianz isn't required to keep this paperwork longer than it needed 
it. Allianz has, however, sent us a blank version of the personal reserve application 
form. While I can't be certain that this is exactly the same as what Mrs T would have 
seen at the time, in the absence of better information I think this is the best evidence 
I have of what Mrs T is likely to have seen at the time. 
The application form I've seen suggests Mrs T needed to tick a box if she wanted to 
apply for PPI. This box was labelled 
"Protect your Personal Reserve repayments against accident, sickness, 
unemployment or death for just 67p per £100 of outstanding balance. If you 
are not eligible, you can nominate your spouse. The insured person must be 
aged 18 or over and under 65, and have been in permanent employment for 
at least the last 6 consecutive months, working for 16+ hours per week. We 
strongly recommend you take this cover by ticking this box."
On the other hand, Mrs T is certain she didn't agree to buy it. 
Where there's a disagreement about what happened, I have to decide what's most 
likely based on what I've seen. The information Allianz has sent me about its sales 
process suggests Mrs T would have had a choice. I'm also mindful that this sale took 
place over 20 years ago; while I don't doubt that Mrs T is certain now that she didn't 
agree to buy it, I think memories can and do fade with time. So while I accept it's 
possible Mrs T didn't want the policy, based on what I've seen I think it's more likely 
that she chose to buy it on her application. 
I don't think Allianz made a tailored recommendation to Mrs T before she bought the 
policy - so it didn't have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to give her the 
information she'd need to work out for herself if she wanted it. 
It's possible the information the retailer gave Mrs T about the policy wasn't as clear 
as it should have been. But as I've said already, I think it's likely Mrs T agreed to buy 
the PPI in her application and based on what she's said about her circumstances it 
looks as though the policy would have been useful had she needed to claim. She 
wasn't affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. And she's confirmed 
that she was working more than 16 hours a week, in a permanent job, so it appears 
she was eligible for the benefits the policy offered. I'm also mindful that, if she'd 
claimed successfully, this policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance at 
the point she stopped working until it was repaid. So I'm not persuaded that better 
information would have put her off buying it. 
I've considered the other points Mrs T has raised. But these don't change my 
conclusion.
I said Id consider any further information and evidence either Mrs T or Allianz sent me by 1 
July 2020.
Allianz hasnt sent me anything further to consider.
Mrs T has replied. She doesnt agree with my findings. In summary, she says:
she didnt believe in PPI;
she doesnt think Allianz took into account whether she had any alternative means of 
meeting the repayments if she was unemployed  and she thinks Allianz had a duty 
to make sure the policy was suitable for her;
she wants me to consider her circumstances at the time;
she feels its unreasonable to rely on example documentation at the time  and that 
its not her problem that Allianz cannot now provide the original paperwork;
she thinks its likely the policy was sold by someone without a financial background, 
which means there was more room for error.
I have therefore reviewed the complaint again in light of these comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs T's case. 
I have carefully considered the points Mrs T has raised, and I thank her for the additional 
information shes sent me. But this new information doesnt change my conclusion. Ill 
explain why.
First, as I explained in my provisional decision, I didnt agree that Allianz needed to check if 
the policy was suitable for Mrs T  I didnt think the retailer who sold Mrs T policy was 
offering financial advice.  It was required to give Mrs T information about the policy so she 
could work out for herself if she wanted it. I thought it was possible that this information 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But based on what Mrs T had said about her 
circumstances, I didnt think better information would have changed her decision to buy it.
Ive thought about the additional information Mrs T has sent me about her circumstances. 
Shes confirmed that she didnt receive any sick pay from her employer. But she now says 
that in addition to her own job, she was helping her husband run his business  though she 
wasnt paid for this. And though Mrs T told us that her job was permanent, working 20 hours 
a week, she now says this employment was casual. Finally, shes sent us details of an 
income protection policy.
But while I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs T, Im still not persuaded better 
information about the policy would have put her off buying it. As she didnt get any sick pay 
from her employer, I think the policy would have been useful if anything went wrong  and as 
she wasnt paid for the work she did for her husband, I dont think this other work would have 
stopped her claiming on the policy if shed needed to. I dont think she was affected by any 
of the other exclusions of the policy. The documents for the income protection policy appear 
to be in the name of her husband  and in any case, it looks as though that policy paid 
benefits of just £100 a month; I think the PPI would have paid out in addition to any benefits 
she might have got from that policy, if any (and given how Mrs T in fact used the account, it 
appears the benefits from the PPI may have been significantly greater than what she might 
have got from the income protection policy).
While I note Mrs Ts comments about the general sales process used by financial 
businesses and the way the retailer may have been incentivised to sell her this policy, Im 
not persuaded that, in her case, she didnt want this policy. As Ive already explained in my 
provisional decision, I think its most likely that Mrs T had a choice whether to take out the 
policy as part of her application. I recognise it must be frustrating to Mrs T that, owing to the 
passage of time, this original application isnt now available. But I dont think thats 
unreasonable: the account closed in 2004, and neither Allianz or the retailer needed to keep 
these records longer than they needed to. Given all the available evidence, I cant conclude 
that Mrs T didnt want the policy based just on what she has said now.
For these reasons, I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint 
against Allianz Insurance plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman