DRN-1819352
The complaint
Mr C has complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim under his 
private medical insurance policy for speech therapy.
What happened
Mr C suffered from dysphonia, meaning he had difficulty in speaking. This was due to a 
defect in his vocal cords. His treating consultant recommended he undergo a 
microlaryngoscopy and an injection into his larynx. BUPA agreed to provide cover for this 
and Mr C received the treatment in October 2018. BUPA also agreed to provide cover for a 
number of subsequent speech therapy sessions.
In April 2019, Mr C was seen again by his consultant who noted that while there had been 
some improvement, Mr C still had difficulty in projecting his voice. The consultant 
recommended that Mr C undergo another microlaryngoscopy and injection, along with 
further speech therapy.
Mr C asked BUPA to authorise this treatment. BUPA authorised the microlaryngoscopy and 
injection. However, after obtaining further information from the consultant, it declined to 
cover the further speech therapy on the grounds that his dysphonia was a chronic condition 
and therefore excluded from cover under the terms of the policy.
Mr C was unhappy at BUPAs decision. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that BUPA had acted fairly.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings. He maintained that he simply required a short 
course of speech therapy and that BUPA was therefore wrong to say his condition was 
chronic.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states that cover is provided for treatment of acute conditions only. The policy 
defines an acute condition as follows:
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to Treatment which aims to return 
you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or which leads to your full recovery
The policy states that cover is excluded for chronic conditions. The policy defines a chronic 
condition as follows:
a disease, illness or injury which has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups 
and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back
In respect of speech therapy, the policy states that cover is provided for the following:
Therapists fees for Out-patient Eligible Treatment for short-term speech therapy when it is 
part of Eligible Treatment, e.g. after a stroke and takes place during or immediately following 
the Eligible Treatment
Following Mr Cs request for authorisation for a further six sessions of speech therapy, 
BUPA sought further information from his treating consultant. The consultant confirmed that 
Mr C had a longstanding defect in his vocal cords which caused him to experience 
discomfort in his larynx after prolonged voice use. This affected his day-to-day functioning. 
The consultant said that the internationally recognised course of action, and which would be 
provided routinely through the NHS, was ongoing speech therapy.
In light of the consultants comments, I consider it was fair for BUPA to say that his condition 
of dysphonia was chronic rather than acute. It appears that his condition was longstanding 
rather than having arisen because of a recent illness or injury. And although Mr C says he 
was seeking authorisation for only a short course of therapy, I consider that his consultants 
comments suggest that this was unlikely to restore Mr Cs voice to normal and that further 
sessions would probably be necessary. 
I recognise that the speech therapy treatment was clinically appropriate for Mr C and that he 
would be granted this treatment through the NHS. However, an insurer is entitled to decide 
what it is prepared to cover and in this case the policy does not promise to pay for every 
treatment which might otherwise be available through the NHS. Instead, the policy limits 
cover to acute conditions only and excludes cover for chronic conditions. It also makes clear 
that cover for speech therapy is provided only as part of eligible treatment and for a short 
term. While I understand Mr Cs disappointment that his policy will not provide cover for this 
treatment, I consider that BUPA has applied the terms of its policy fairly and has acted 
reasonably in declining his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman