DRN-4510367
The complaint
Mr G complains that the transfer values of his pensions reduced when he had been 
expecting them to increase.
In February 2023 The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) had 
communicated to Mr Gs adviser - BLP Wealth Management Limited, an appointed 
representative of M&G Wealth Advice Limited (M&G)  that whilst not guaranteed, the 
performance of the with profits fund meant there could be an uplift of around 1.25% to 
transfer values on legacy pension products if those products were retained until these 
bonuses were added (typically on or around 1 April).
As such Mr G postponed acting in transferring his pensions until after this date.
However, when updated values were provided in May 2023 the pension transfer value had in 
fact reduced by around £12,000.
Mr G has stated that this is not what he had expected, with the value of his pension, and the 
amount of tax-free cash he could take, both being negatively impacted.
Mr G is being assisted and represented in this complaint by his wife  Mrs G. However, for 
ease of reference I have referred only to Mr G throughout the decision below.
What happened
In November 2022 Mr G sought advice regarding his two Prudential Pensions. Mr G had a 
T86 personal pension with a value of around £37,300 and a T66 Retirement Annuity 
Contract with a value of around £150,000.
At the first meeting no advice was given as Mr G wanted to further consider his options, 
including the cost of advice and whether to consider an annuity.
Mr G arranged a further appointment with the adviser in February 2023. During this meeting 
a fact-find was carried out so the adviser could get a clear picture of Mr Gs financial 
circumstances, needs and objectives.
On 23 February 2023 Prudential announced to all the appointed representatives of M&G that 
there was a surplus within the with-profits sub-fund and that it should be anticipated that 
(whilst not guaranteed) there may be an uplift to the fund / transfer values. 
Having been informed of this by his adviser Mr G chose to delay the advice and wait for the 
potential uplift to transfer values on 1 April 2023.
On 21 April 2023 after further discussions, the option of utilising an enhanced annuity rather 
than flexible drawdown in retirement was raised again. Mr G provided his medical history so 
underwriting could commence and enhanced annuity rates could be considered.
Mr G contacted his adviser on 11 May 2023 to confirm that the option of an annuity had 
been discounted and that the enhanced annuity process should be discontinued. Flexible 
access drawdown had been decided upon as the best course of action given Mr and Mrs Gs 
desire to access tax-free cash to repay their mortgage, whilst leaving the remaining capital 
untouched.
A further meeting was held on 19 May 2023 where illustrations for a flexible drawdown 
solution were discussed. It was at this meeting where it became apparent that the transfer 
value of the T66 policy had dropped by around £12,000.
The adviser explained that the T66 policy was a policy that promised to pay a set income in 
retirement, and that the transfer value was based on the expected cost of that income rather 
than the value of any actual underlying investments. However, Mr G was unhappy with the 
drop in value, especially given the expected uplift which had been discussed in 
February 2023. As such a complaint was registered with Prudential. 
Prudential issued a response on 4 June 2023. This broadly repeated the advisers 
explanation of why the transfer value had fallen, explained that transfer values can rise as 
well as fall, and that as such the complaint was not being upheld.
Another letter was sent to Mr G on 20 July 2023 providing a further answer as to why the 
value of the pension had dropped. This letter explained again that the policy did not have an 
actual fund value, rather this pension promised to pay a set income each year and that the 
transfer value is calculated based on the cost of providing that income. Prudential confirmed 
the way this calculation is performed is regularly reviewed. At the time Mr G was looking to 
transfer rising gilt yields and the associated rising annuity rates had led to a reduction in the 
cost of providing the income promised by the T66 policy. As such the transfer value had also 
reduced. 
On 3 August 2023 Prudential issued another response to a complaint. This letter did not 
detail what specific complaint points it related to but accepted that levels of service had not 
been at their required levels and as such the complaint was being upheld. £125 was offered 
as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
On 4 August 2023 the transfer of the T86 policy was confirmed with around £37,800 
transferred to a Prudential self-invested personal pension (SIPP)
The T66 pension was transferred on 13 September 2023 with around £144,000 transferred 
to the new SIPP.
Mr G considered Prudentials offer of £125 insufficient given the reduced fund value and as 
such referred his complaint to this service.
Whilst the complaint was being investigated by this service Prudential issued another 
complaint response. This covered Mr Gs specific point that Prudentials guidance to defer 
acting on their pension until after April 2023 had led to financial loss.
Prudential stated that within the February 2023 announcement that there was a fund surplus 
it was made clear that advisers should also confirm to policy holders that an uplift in value 
was not guaranteed, and that if policyholders chose to defer taking action on their policies 
until after April 2023, the transfer value may also be reduced, or a Market Value Reduction 
(MVR) may apply.
Having sought confirmation from Mr Gs adviser, Prudential stated that the announcement 
had been discussed in full, with Mr G being made aware that any uplift was not guaranteed 
before the decision to defer taking any action was made.Whilst the value of the T66 policy fell be around £12,000 between February 2023 and 
May 2023 Prudential explained that this was because of the nature of the policy, the fact that 
it was set up to provide a guaranteed level of income in retirement, and that the transfer 
value of the policy was based on the cost of this income rather than investment 
performance.
The calculation for converting this income to a transfer value used several factors, one of 
these  the annuity interest rate  was changed on 1 April 2023. The increased annuity rate 
meant it would cost Prudential less to provide the level of income promised by the T66 policy 
and as such the transfer value was also reduced.
Prudential explained that changes to the underlying factors used in this calculation were 
confidential and as such no advanced notice of any potential changes could be given to 
policyholders.
Whilst Prudential accepted that Mr G had been told of the expected uplift, and been given 
guidance to defer acting, this guidance had also made clear that the uplift was not 
guaranteed, and transfer values could rise as well as fall.
As such the complaint was not upheld.
Our investigator looked into things and did not think Prudential had acted unfairly.
The investigator considered the announcement made by Prudential regarding the potential 
uplift and concluded that whilst the adviser had made Mr G aware of the potential benefits, 
these werent guaranteed at any time. 
Whilst waiting for this uplift, and whilst Mr G still considering both annuity and flexible 
drawdown options, an additional change was made by Prudential which affected the transfer 
value of the T66 policy. The investigator explained that the decision made to change annuity 
interest rate used in calculating the value of the T66 policy was a business decision that 
Prudential had kept confidential to protect the wider membership of the with-profits fund, with 
no advanced warning being given to either Mr Gs adviser or other policy holders. As a 
business conduct decision, the investigator stated that this was a matter for the financial 
services regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) rather than this service.
The investigator did note that the specific complaint points Mr G had made had not been 
covered fully by Prudential until referring the complaint to this service prompted the issuance 
of a further complaint response in November 2023. However, the investigator went on to 
confirm that they would be making no recommendation in respect of the drop in fund value 
and considered the £125 offered by Prudential a suitable amount to cover the distress 
caused by Prudentials blanket response to the complaint.
Mr G did not agree and stated that they remained of the opinion that the transfer to the SIPP 
would have been actioned sooner were it not for Prudentials advice to hold fire. In addition, 
Mr G stated that there had been no real volatility in the stock market and as such the 
reduction in value remained baffling with an explanation other than investments can go up 
and also go down still required.
The investigator was not persuaded to change their findings and as such the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing firstly with Prudentials communication around the potential uplift in fund values I can 
fully appreciate why this would have led to Mr G postponing any decision as to how to utilise 
his pension funds.
From the chain of events above it is clear that when this announcement was made in 
February 2023 Mr G was in the process of deciding what to do with his pensions, with 
consideration being given to using an annuity or drawdown with the funds that had been built 
up in the T66 and T86 policies. 
Whilst this decision was not made until May 2023 it may have been the case that had 
Prudential not announced the fund surplus, and the potential uplift to fund values, Mr G may 
have finalised his decision before 1 April 2023 and benefitted from a higher transfer value on 
the T66 policy. It is however impossible for me to know exactly what would actually have 
happened had Prudential acted differently.
What I can see however is that the communication of the potential uplift did have the 
caveats I would expect to see in such circumstances, with confirmation that the increase 
was not guaranteed, and that values could fall as well as rise.
I have noted Mr Gs comments that his adviser made him aware that if he chose to proceed 
before 1 April 2023, he would be acting against the guidance which had been provided. 
However, Mr G did retain the option to transfer prior to 1 April 2023 and had been made 
aware that the uplift was not guaranteed.
Overall, I do not believe Prudential acted unfairly in making affected customers aware of the 
potential uplift to their pension values and providing guidance confirming that they should 
consider retaining the pensions until 1 April 2023 unless transferring was urgently needed.
I have gone on to consider the subsequent reduction in the transfer value of Mr Gs T66 
policy and Prudentials actions in this regard.
As above, this policy operates differently to the T86 policy in that its primary aim is to provide 
a guaranteed level of income in retirement.
Whilst the T86 policy transfer value was based on the value and performance of the 
underlying investments held within the pension, the T66 policy transfer value was not.
This transfer value was based on the calculated cost to Prudential of providing the 
guaranteed income promised by the policy.
As such, movements in the investment markets did not directly impact the value of the T66 
policy. As per Mr Gs comments in response to our investigators findings I agree that the 
reduction in value of around £12,000 in this policy does not correlate with broadly stagnant 
investment markets at that time.
However, at that time, inflation, interest rates and gilt yields were higher than they had been 
for several years. This led to higher annuity rates, and these higher annuity rates meant that 
the cost to Prudential of providing the guaranteed income from the T66 policy had reduced. 
As such, the transfer value also reduced.
Prudential have confirmed that any changes to their calculation of transfer values for policies 
such as Mr Gs T66 policy were considered confidential, and as per our investigators 
findings this decision was likely to try and protect investors within the with-profits fund from any undue volatility prior notification of such changes may create. I also agree with the 
investigators commentary that Prudentials decision to amend the calculation and keep this 
confidential is a business conduct decision that this service has little jurisdiction over.
It is unfortunate that Mr Gs policy transfer value was impacted by the changes to the 
calculation, and I can especially appreciate his frustration that this occurred after being told 
that there was a likelihood of an increase in fund value.
However, as above I have concluded that Prudentials decision to notify policyholders of the 
potential uplift (with appropriate warnings given) was reasonable. In addition, the separate 
decision to amend their transfer value calculation on the T66 policy without any prior 
notification to policyholders is also reasonable given its potential consequences to the fund 
as a whole and the wider customer base.
As such, I do not require any further action of Prudential and am not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
Whilst I sympathise with the chain of events above and the reduction in Mr Gs pension 
value, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman