DRN-3136350
The complaint
Mr H is complaining Creation Limited hasnt refunded losses she incurred after a flight 
provider went into liquidation. She brings the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In March 2019 Mr H entered into a contract with a third party  who I shall refer to as T  to 
buy some flights. The flights were one-way tickets to travel in November 2019. The total cost 
of the flights was £442.97. He paid for the flights on his Creation credit card.
In September 2019 T went into liquidation and the flights Mr H bought were cancelled. Mr H 
says he had no choice but to buy replacement flights for him and his travelling party with a 
different airline because his outbound flight and hotel were non-cancellable contracts. He 
initially looked at returning on the same day as he was originally going to do so. But he says 
the cost of replacement flights were around £2,000. So he chose to extend his holiday by a 
day as he said this was more cost-effective because the cost of an extra days hotel and 
flying back the next day was only around £1,100. 
Mr H later contacted Creation and asked it to refund the amount he paid to T. He also 
wanted it to refund the extra hed paid for the replacement flights and days hotel. Creation 
successfully processed a chargeback claim and Mr H received back the £442.92 hed paid to 
T. But Creation said it was only required to put him back in the position hed be in had the 
breach of contract not taken place. So it thought it was only required to refund the cost of the 
tickets Mr H bought from T.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said Mr H is entitled to recover consequential 
losses under S75. She was satisfied Mr H had taken reasonable steps to mitigate his losses, 
so she thought Creation acted unfairly in declining Mr Hs S75 claim.
Creation didnt agree with the investigator as it maintained it wasnt liable for the losses. It 
said it was Mr Hs choice to buy replacement flights and it didnt think it was liable for this 
under S75. And it asked for an ombudsman to consider this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr H paid for the flights T was supposed to provide on his Creation credit card. S75 sets out 
that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Creation can be held jointly liable for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by T. Im satisfied those circumstances apply 
here.
Creation says its responsibility under S75 is to put the consumer in the position the 
consumer would be in were it not for the breach of contract. What S75 actually sets out is 
that it gives Mr H a like claim against Creation if there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by T. So, I must give consideration to what losses Mr H would likely be 
able to recover in court against T when considering what the like claim might look like.
Theres no dispute T breached the terms of the contract because it didnt provide the flight it 
was contracted to provide or provide a replacement flight. So I dont need to consider this 
further.
Mr H is essentially looking to recover additional losses he says hes suffered as a result of 
Ts breach of contract  i.e. consequential losses. Ive read and considered the terms of 
Mr Hs contract with T and given particular thought to the standard principles of contract 
interpretation, together with Sections 63 and 69 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Having 
done so, Im satisfied T is liable for any proven consequential losses Mr H can demonstrate 
he suffered as a result of T breaching its terms and conditions. And Creation hasnt given me 
anything to show that T isnt liable for these losses. 
When thinking about when a consumer can recover consequential losses, I generally have 
to ask three questions:
1. Is the loss a direct result of the breach of contract;
2. Is the loss a reasonably foreseeable loss flowing from the breach of contract; and
3. Did Mr H take reasonable steps to mitigate his losses?
I dont think it can be disputed that the need to buy replacement flights is a direct result of Ts 
breach of contract. Similarly, I think its reasonably foreseeable that Mr H is likely to need to 
buy replacement flights at an additional expense once T cancelled the flight. So the issue for 
me to consider is whether Mr H took reasonable steps to mitigate his losses.
The flights Mr H bought were return flights for a holiday. He separately booked flights out to 
the destination and a hotel for the travelling party to stay in. Mr H has demonstrated that 
these were non-cancellable contracts. He paid around £2,200 for these. Mr H has said it was 
more cost effective to buy replacement flights as, otherwise, hed lose the £2,200 hed paid. 
This seems a fair and reasonable approach to take. 
Im conscious Mr H chose to extend his holiday by an extra day. But hes told us the 
replacement flight to fly back on the same day was around £2,000. But the cost of a 
replacement flight and staying an extra day was around £1,100. I think Mr H has ultimately 
chosen to take the most cost-effective option. So Im satisfied that he took fair steps to 
mitigate his own and his travelling parties losses.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Mr H has incurred these losses as a result of Ts breach of contract 
and he would be entitled to recover them directly from T. So it follows, under his S75 rights, 
Creation is liable for these losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Creation Financial Services Limited to refund the £876.75 Mr H paid for the 
replacement flights and the £273.46 he paid for the additional nights stay in the hotel. It 
should also pay 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date he paid them until he 
gets them back. It can treat the amount credited back from the chargeback as a payment 
towards the cost of the replacement flights.If Creation Financial Services Limited thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the above interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman