DRN-1179281
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2000 Mrs C took out a PPI policy at the same time as taking out a credit card. Both were 
done during a meeting in-branch.
The policy provided protection for Mrs Cs card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out a benefit of 10% 
of the monthly outstanding card balance and would do so for up to 12 months per claim. At 
the outset it cost 70 pence for every £100 Mrs C owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs C was employed, and she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full followed by six months' half-pay. She said she had some savings - she thinks 
around £500 - she could've used to make her repayments, and she said she was in good 
health at the time.
Barclays' records show the credit card account ended in 2003.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the evidence 
showed Mrs C chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs C, through her representative disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
 
 did Mrs C have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs C didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Barclays has provided a copy of Mrs C's credit card application. And here I can see there 
were two equally prominent options from which to choose from - 'Yes' to take out PPI or 'No' 
to decline it. Mrs C put a cross in the 'Yes' box.
There was nothing on the application, which said or implied PPI had to be taken out. So 
given that she indicated she wanted PPI in her application and because she signed the 
overall application, I think Mrs C chose to take out PPI and she did so without undue 
pressure.
the advice
Barclays says because this was a branch sale it recommended the PPI to Mrs C. This 
means Barclays had to check that the PPI was right or suitable for Mrs C  and based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, she was 
eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover such as those related to existing medical conditions and unusual employment 
circumstances; and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
I therefore think PPI was suitable for Mrs C and it would've played a useful part in helping 
her to meet her card payments should the insured risks have become a reality.
the information
I accept its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs C about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I found above, I think she likely chose to take it out - so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time I think it was 
suitable for her -  it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs C off taking out the cover.
conclusion
While Barclays might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Mrs C PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think it's likely she'd 
have still gone ahead and taken out PPI had Barclays done anything more.
This means I don't think Mrs C has lost out as a result of having PPI with her credit card, so 
Barclays doesn't have to pay back what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C and her representative have said - including what 
theyve said about her Mrs C having significant sick pay and savings. But these points dont 
change my decision.
 
 
I'm not persuaded Mrs C's savings at the time of the sale can reasonably be described as 
significant. And while Mrs C did have what might be generally regarded as generous sick pay, the policy would've paid out in addition to any sick pay entitlement and for longer if 
necessary - up to 12 months per claim. Given the policy's percentage benefit, it also had the 
potential to clear the outstanding balance in full.
So overall I don't think Mrs C's decision to take out PPI would've likely been any different 
had Barclays done anything more.
I therefore dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman