DRN-1465295
 
The complaint
Mr M says Stagemount Limited (trading as QuidMarket) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan QuidMarket provided to Mr M in January 2019. It 
was for £500 and was repayable over 21 weeks. It has not been repaid in full.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
QuidMarket disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuidMarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that QuidMarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuidMarket was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator concluded QuidMarket shouldnt have give the loan to Mr M because its 
checks on Mr Ms creditworthiness showed he had other outstanding short term loans at the 
time he applied. He said this suggested Mr M was having problems managing his money 
and QuidMarket ought to have realised it was likely Mr M would struggle to sustainably repay 
the loan. 
QuidMarket disagreed saying, in summary, this goes against our published guidelines, and 
previous similar decisions, as weve stated its reasonable for checks to be less thorough in 
the early stages of a relationship. Its too simplistic to find this single loan shouldnt have 
been given because Mr M had other lending products.
As I set out earlier in this decision, in the early stages of a lending relationship we think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate - so QuidMarkets statement is 
correct. However, we would always expect a lender to have proper regard for, and act on, 
any information it gathers from the checks it decides to do. 
As part of the checks QuidMarket completed to make its lending decision it carried out a 
credit check for Mr M. This showed that he was making significant monthly repayments of 
just over £1,058 to other short term lenders, as well as repayments of £796 on other 
unsecured loans. I note from its final response letter that it amended the credit commitments 
Mr M had declared taking into account one of the short term loans, but not the other as it this 
was due to be repaid in full before Mr M would need to start making repayments to 
QuidMarket. 
But Im not persuaded that it was fair to Mr M to do this. As at the day before Mr Ms loan 
was approved the second short term loan still had a balance of £853. There was no data at 
the time showing how or when Mr M would repay that debt. And that aside, QuidMarket 
could see that Mr M had a history of taking out short term loans. It could see that, even 
discounting the second short term loan, he had ongoing monthly loan repayments of around 
£1,000 most of which had been taken out in the last few months.  
I think given Mr M had disclosed his monthly income was £1,800 the information Quid 
Market gathered ought to have alerted it that Mr M was finding it difficult to manage his 
money, and there was a real risk he would most likely not be able to repay his loan 
sustainably.      
It follows I dont think QuidMarket should have given the loan to Mr M. 
Quid Market listed a number of previous cases this service has looked at as part of its 
defence to give this loan. But we assess each case on its individual merits and I can only 
comment here on the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right  what QuidMarket needs to doIf QuidMarket has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
QuidMarket must now:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding balance, not including anything it has 
already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then 
QuidMarket should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. It should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
QuidMarket should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
E) You should remove any adverse information you have recorded on Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to this loan.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. QuidMarket should 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Stagemount Limited (trading 
as QuidMarket) should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman