DRN-2723127
The complaint
Miss B complains about what happened when she asked Revolut Ltd to send some money
overseas for her. She said there was no warning about the amount she was charged, and no 
way to make an informed choice about whether to use the service.
What happened
Miss B said shed been a Revolut customer for a while, and had always been happy with it,
until recently. She said that Revolut makes clear that it wont charge for international
transfers. But in July shed made a transfer of €188.99, and been charged €42 for that. Only
€146.99 arrived at the other end.
Miss B was very unhappy about this. She said that customers need to be given a choice
about whether to incur costs or not when they are using a service. Miss B has pointed out
that other, far cheaper, ways of making this transfer exist, which she couldve used if shed
known about the costs. In this case, she had no choice, and shed found this very frustrating.
She also told Revolut that this had happened before, and shed complained about this
before, but no one had responded.
Miss B said that Revolut had paid back the money shed been charged for the transfer,
which was a decent gesture of goodwill. But she didnt think it excused the lack of
transparency in Revoluts communications. She thought it should pay compensation too.
Revolut said the reason why the amount received was different to the amount sent was
because the payment was processed through the SWIFT network. A number of banks are
involved in that payment process, and they can also charge. Revolut said its not in control of
that, and it cant prevent it. It also said it cant entirely predict how much someone might be
charged.
Revolut sent Miss B details of where this was set out in its terms, and where she could find
estimates of the fees that would be charged. And it said in this case, it had reimbursed her
the €42.99 that shed lost when the transfer was done.
Miss B said that Revolut had now added a warning about fees to its transfer pages. It hadnt
included this when she made her transaction.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Revoluts terms
include a warning about the fees Miss B was charged, which was included in the terms at
the time Miss B made this transfer. Our investigator didnt think Revolut could know in
advance how much these charges would be, but it did give estimates. Our investigator didnt
think Revolut had to do more.
Miss B didnt agree. She said Revolut didnt give estimates in the past, but it does now. She
said that if she makes a transfer now, she has clear visibility on how much it would cost, so
she can decide if she wants to pay or not. She said that Revolut had changed this since she
lodged her complaint.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said just because Revolut was able to provide
an estimate now, doesnt mean it had to when Miss B made her transfer.
Miss B said that because our investigation took much longer than expected, the facts shed
told us about had little relevance now. Revolut had plenty of time to learn from its mistakes
and so despite her very detailed explanation of circumstances, she felt let down and very
disappointed. She wanted to take the matter further, so the case came to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Firstly, Id like to set out that, although this case has taken a little time to reach me 
(as it was lodged at the end of August 2020) I will assess what has happened on the 
basis of what Revolut did then. Whilst its always good to see that a business has 
made improvements since a case came to us, that wouldnt change the outcome of 
this complaint.
Miss B made a transfer, and less money arrived than shed expected. She was 
charged almost a quarter of the amount she transferred, so I can well understand 
why she was concerned about this.
Like our investigator, I dont think that Revolut is in control of these charges. It 
doesnt apply them, and its not clear to me how it could predict the exact amounts 
charged. Revolut has set out in its terms and conditions that charges can be applied 
in these circumstances.
But I do think that, particularly because many of the transfers that Revolut does are 
fee free, it would be helpful to include a warning about fees in the transfer screen. Im 
pleased to see that Revolut does this now. That doesnt make up though for the 
mistake it made that Im considering here, not including this warning earlier.
I also have to take account of the situation of Miss B when she made this transfer. 
She said in her complaint to Revolut, that shed made another complaint about this 
previously, and had previously made other transfers where she was charged over 
€100. So I think Miss B was aware that transfers with Revolut wont always be free. 
And I can see that Revolut has refunded the amount that Miss B was charged. In this 
case, I think thats enough to make up for whats gone wrong, so I wont ask Revolut 
to do any more.
Miss B also said that her previous complaint didnt get any response from Revolut. 
And she says she was charged over €100 for that transfer. She can ask our service 
to look at this too, if she would like. Ill leave Miss B to get in touch with us if she 
would like us to do that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Revolut didnt reply. Miss B sent a substantive reply.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B said that as a customer she has the right to make an informed decision on how much 
she chooses to spend on a service. But she said Revolut had repeatedly violated that right. 
Although it gives an indication of SWIFT charges, it doesnt say exactly how much will be 
charged. She said she had no choice about which banks to collaborate with for her transfers 
to be executed. And she thought Revolut must be aware of the charges, because it has 
contractual agreements with these banks.
She suggested that this was comparable to depositing money, then finding out after a year 
that youd been charged for third party financial services, with no warning. 
Miss B said that hiding the precise costs of a service was fraud. And marketing services as 
being free is also rather misleading, especially when handling finances. Miss B said that 
misleading marketing messages can be an offence which is subject to prosecution. 
Miss B said that she understood this wasnt a large amount of money, and she said that may 
be why Revolut didnt expect her to complain. But she said that she still felt this was 
important, and she wanted to know if I wouldve reached a different conclusion if shed lost a 
quarter of a much larger amount. 
Miss B said that there must be a level of transparency that Revolut has to abide by. She said 
she still felt disadvantaged, and didnt believe it was legal for an institution handling personal 
finance to charge fees and avoid taking responsibilities for these charges. She thought this 
was money laundering. She wanted me to change my mind.
I understand that Miss B feels strongly that what Revolut is doing is wrong, and indeed in 
some cases that what its doing may be unlawful. But it appears to me that this is, at least in 
part, because she thinks Revolut could tell her exactly the costs involved, and is choosing 
not to. And I dont think thats right.
Before I set out how SWIFT transfers work, I think its important to recall that this complaint 
looks at one transfer, made by Miss B. When Miss B complained to us, thats the problem 
she told us about. And thats the problem that Revolut has looked at. 
Ive explained to Miss B that she can ask us to look at other transfers too, if she would like. 
But I cant expand this complaint now to take account of other things that have gone wrong. 
Our service has to be fair to both sides, and it wouldnt be fair to both sides to do that. So, as 
I said, Ill leave it to Miss B to ask us to look at any other transfers she would like us to 
consider. I need to concentrate here on the one transfer that is the subject of this complaint. 
Next, I should explain that SWIFT transfers dont work in the way that Miss B suggests. 
Revolut told us that its not in control of charges that are applied, and it cant prevent them. It 
also said it cant entirely predict how much someone might be charged. And I think thats 
right. Ill explain why.
Revolut chooses the first bank in the chain that it asks to help it with a transfer. But after that, 
its up to that bank who it chooses to be next in the chain. And when someone is asking 
Revolut to transfer money to a smaller overseas bank, in a country where the local financial 
services dont have strong global links, that chain can involve a number of banks. Revolut doesnt have a series of pre-existing contractual agreements with all the banks that 
are involved in each chain of transfers, and it doesnt necessarily know which banks will be 
involved. So its just not able to predict the charges in the way Miss B says she would 
expect. 
Revolut can provide a warning when a transfer isnt going to be free, and an estimate of 
costs, so that customers can make an informed choice. And Im pleased to see it now does 
both those things. It didnt provide this warning when Miss B made the transfer shes 
complaining about. I understand that Miss B already knew that she was likely to be charged, 
because at this point she had been charged before for transfers. But I still think it was right 
for Revolut to pay Miss B back what she was charged, for the transfer she has complained 
about. 
Miss B asked if I would have reached a different view if the amount involved was larger. Our 
service doesnt usually comment on hypothetical scenarios, but in this instance I think that 
things are sufficiently clear to enable me to do so. And no, I would not have reached a 
different view. If Miss B had transferred much more, been charged much more, and Revolut 
had paid back a much larger charge, I would still have said that was the right thing for it to 
do. 
I also think its worth noting that the scenario Miss B imagines, of a much larger transfer 
incurring thousands in charges, isnt likely to happen. Transfer charges arent usually based 
on a large percentage of the transfer. They can be based on a flat rate, which can then 
mean the sender is charged a relatively large proportion of a smaller transfer. 
So, whilst the charges represent almost a quarter of the €188.99 transferred in this case, if 
Miss B had transferred a much larger amount, its most likely that the charge would still have 
been roughly the same.
I havent changed my mind. I know that Miss B will be disappointed that I dont think her 
complaint should be upheld, but I hope that my explanation helps to set out why I think that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman