DRN-2258445
The complaint
Mr K complains about the additional charges he said Alliance Trust Savings Limited T/A 
Stocktrade (Alliance Trust) applied to the stock within his self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). He says he wasnt told about the supplementary fee and if hed known he could have 
sold the stock earlier to avoid incurring the charge. He also complains that Alliance Trust 
didnt tell him that it was then going to sell the shares or what it proposed to do with the 
proceeds. He says the sale took place when the shares were at a low price.
He says his SIPP hasnt subsequently been closed because of the outstanding charges that 
remain  which he would like waived, as well as a refund of the previously applied charges.
What happened
In July 2014 Mr K was made aware that his current SIPP provider would be discontinuing its 
SIPP services. The following month his SIPP was transferred to a new service provider. An 
execution only dealing account with Stocktrade was set up in late 2014 which Mr K said had 
a charge of £12 per quarter for holding his stock. The following month Mr K received a letter 
confirming the account was open, but he said it set out that the charge would be £40 per 
year. 
In May 2016 Stocktrade was sold to Alliance Trust, who became responsible for the dealing 
account. Throughout the rest of this decision Ill refer to Alliance Trust for ease. In May 2017 
it wrote to its customers to confirm some changes to its charges. This included an increase 
to its annual account charge and the introduction of a supplementary charge from 
August 2017. The supplementary fee was £375 per annum and applied to Mr Ks plan as he 
held non-standard investments within his SIPP. The letter set out the potential options for 
transferring the investments to ensure the charge wasnt applied.
Mr K said he didnt receive any statements from Alliance Trust until 2018. But when he 
received them Mr K said the statements confirmed hed been charged £12 per quarter in 
2016 and the first part of 2017, and £24 per quarter from 2017 to 2018. But he said hed also 
been charged a supplementary fee of £450 in August 2017. 
In October 2018 Mr K spoke with an adviser from Alliance Trust who confirmed the 
supplementary fee but couldnt explain the reason behind it  so Mr K complained. He said if 
hed known about the fee, he could have disposed of the stock which had caused it to be 
levied, although he believed the charge to be unfair in any case. 
Alliance Trust said that it had reviewed its account charges in 2016 and had decided to 
introduce the supplementary account charge to better reflect the cost of providing certain 
services to its customers. One of the reasons for introducing the fee was to cover non-
standard investments  which Mr K held within his SIPP. So, although it was sorry if Mr K 
didnt receive the letter it sent to announce these changes  it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong by applying the supplementary charge. 
It also confirmed the stock was in the process of being sold, which it was later that month, 
with the proceeds used to pay towards the outstanding fees.
Mr K says he believed that following his complaint his SIPP trustee was dealing with Alliance 
Trust over the matter. But in any case, in May 2019, he received another statement setting 
out the account charges from January to April 2019. As he believed the account should have 
been closed following the sale of the stock he complained again in December 2019.
Mr K said Alliance Trust had failed to:
Provide documentation relating to the sale of the stock.
Provide general account information in a timely manner.
Explain or justify the supplementary fee.
Apply the correct charges set out initially in its tariff.
Closed the account to prevent further charges when the (only) stock was sold.
Explain the changes to the account structure which would have allowed for 
mitigation of the costs. 
But Alliance Trust said Mr K had previously complained to it in October 2018 about the same 
matter and it had provided a final response letter to him. As he had now exceeded the 
six months in which he needed to take his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
following that final response letter, Alliance Trust said his complain had been time barred.
Mr K said Alliance Trust knew he wasnt happy with its response and he had asked his SIPP 
trustee to take up matters with it. So he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. Initially she said the complaint had been brought too late 
but then reconsidered as she thought Alliance Trusts final response letter wasnt sent to the 
correct email address  so its unlikely Mr K would have received it and therefore wouldnt 
have been aware of any time limits involved.  
So she looked at the merits of Mr Ks complaint but concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
She made the following points:
Alliance Trusts terms and conditions (T&Cs) confirmed it provided an execution only 
service and that it may vary its charges.
It sent a letter to all its customers in May 2017 confirming the changes it was making 
to those charges  including the introduction of the supplementary charge.
Shed seen a copy of the template letters sent by Alliance Trust which showed it was 
clear Mr K would be affected by the new charge. Shed also seen a screenshot which 
showed the address Alliance Trust held for Mr K at the time and confirmed where it 
had sent the letter.
She was unaware of any wider issues with other customers not being made aware of 
the changes to the charges.
Even if Mr K hadnt received the letter the other trustee had received yearly invoices, 
which should have made it aware of the introduction of a new charge in 2017.
Alliance Trust did give customers extra time to either move their affected investment 
without any transfer fees, or transfer to a system which wouldnt endure the 
supplementary charges. Either way an extension was offered to be able to avoid the 
charges which, if Mr K had acted when the other firm was made aware of the 
supplementary charge, might have enabled him to move his shares.
Mr K didnt agree, making the following points in response:Initially the account charges were nominal, so he had no reason to think they would 
rise so significantly.
Because of the significant rise in charges, Alliance Trust should have done more to 
ensure that Mr K was made aware of them and that he had confirmed his acceptance 
of them.
The other firm the investigator had referred to wasnt his adviser  but the SIPP 
trustees who act on instructions and dont actively manage the SIPP and its 
investments.
He didnt receive the letter that Alliance Trust said it sent out in May 2017 regarding 
the change in account charges. If he had been aware of the new charges from the 
letter, he would have either sold the stock or transferred to a cheaper provider.
We hadnt made any comment on the charges that continued to be taken from the 
account even after the stock was sold. 
The investigator said she agreed that the charges had been nominal to begin with and that 
there was no suggestion they would change. But a business does have the right to vary its 
charges if circumstances change  as long as it makes its customers aware. In this case she 
thought Alliance Trust had made Mr K aware and given him sufficient notice. She said she 
believed it was more likely than not that the notifying letters were delivered to him.
She also confirmed that Alliance Trust had provided a copy of a sale instruction which 
showed that Mr K had authorised the sale of the stock but hadnt asked for the account to be 
closed. So she thought Alliance Trust had continued to levy account charges correctly 
against the SIPP. However, she said that Alliance Trust had since wiped the outstanding 
fees from 2019 and 2020 on the account and had now closed it.
 
But Mr K didnt accept the outcome as he said it ignored the charges that were applied in 
2017 and didnt take into account the distress hed suffered for the three years hed been 
trying to get this matter resolved. He said he wanted the matter to be looked at again  so 
its been passed to me for a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigators assessment and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this isnt the outcome Mr K would have been hoping for  so Ill explain my 
reasons.
Did Alliance Trust make its customers aware of the new account charges?
Alliance Trusts original T&Cs for the account Mr K opened stated, under the section headed 
our charges and other costs payable by you, that we may vary our charges and the other 
costs on prior notice to you as provided in clauses 234 to 238. So Alliance Trust, if it 
decided that it needed to change the fees and costs on the account, was entitled to do so. 
And if it did decide to adjust the charges, I would have expected it to make its customers 
aware of the changes and give them the option to transfer elsewhere without any exit 
penalties. I would have also expected it to give some form of extension or extended deadline 
for customers to take any remedial action they might wish to take. 
Ive looked carefully at the letter Alliance Trust said it sent to all its customers in May 2017 
which was titled your account charges are changing. It explained that it was making some 
changes to its charges and confirmed these would be effective from 1 July 2017, except for the supplementary charge which will be applied to your account on 1 August 2017. So Im 
satisfied that sufficient notice was given for the changes. 
In addition, Alliance Trust said that arrangements could be made for qualifying stock to be 
transferred to the equivalent within the crest system and transfer out
 charges were waived for customers that wanted to transfer to another provider. In both 
cases a deadline was given to contact Alliance Trust to make the necessary changes. So I 
think Alliance Trust offered reasonable alternatives for customers like Mr K to be able to take 
alternative steps to potentially avoid the new supplementary charge. 
And the letter confirmed that as our records show that you hold non-standard investments, 
the supplementary account charge will apply to you. So there was no doubt that Alliance 
Trust believed Mr Ks stock attracted the new charge and made it clear to him in the letter 
that he would be personally affected. The enclosed rate card (of charges) stated that the 
supplementary account fee was to be £375 per annum and it explained that it was for some 
cases in which more work is involved than others for us to look after your account and we 
must take on more risk than usual in doing so.
So, overall, I think Alliance Trust did make its customers aware of the new changes and set 
out how they would affect people. But Mr K says he never received this letter, so Ive gone 
onto consider whether I think, on balance, that the information was sent to Mr K.
Was Mr K made aware of the changes? 
Mr K says he never received notification of any changes to the charges or the introduction of 
a new supplementary charge. He said that if he had been made aware, he would have sold 
the stock earlier to avoid the charge  which each year would have accounted for about 30% 
of the total value of the stock. 
Alliance Trust has provided a copy of the generic mailing it sent to all its customers about the 
introduction of the supplementary charge. Ive also seen that the mailing was sent to the 
correct address for Mr K at that time  which is also the same as his current address and 
that used in the original application form for the dealing account. So Im satisfied, on balance 
that Alliance Trust would have sent Mr K the letter which made its customers aware of the 
changes. 
I understand that Mr K thinks the letter wasnt sent to him and theres no way of knowing  
with the passage of time, what may have happened to the letter. I dont dispute what Mr K 
has told us. I have given a lot of thought to Mr Ks suggestions that he would have sold the 
stock if hed been made aware of the supplementary charge, but Im persuaded by Alliance 
Trusts screenshot and template evidence that the letter was sent and to the correct address 
at the time.
So, while I have some sympathy for Mr K here and the way the matter unfolded I dont think 
Alliance Trust has done anything wrong and I dont think it should have to refund Mr K the 
supplementary fee that I think it made him aware of. I know Mr K thinks Alliance Trust should 
have done more to make him aware of such an important and significant change  including 
requesting his acceptance of the new fee. But Im not aware of any regulatory need for 
Alliance Trust to have to communicate to Mr K in other ways and to obtain his authority to 
introduce the fees. This was part of a general mailing to all of Alliance Trusts affected 
customers and I think it would have been an onerous expectation and duplication of work to 
follow up each letter with an email or phone call for example. 
Im satisfied that Alliance Trust did enough to make Mr K aware of the changes it was going 
to introduce to the fees on the dealing account. Were the charges fair?
Mr K has questioned whether such a significant increase in the charges was acceptable. In 
this case the existing annual charge didnt increase significantly, but a new supplementary 
charge was introduced. However, its not for this service to pass judgement on charges that 
a business might legitimately decide it needs to add to its overall tariff of fees. Its T&Cs 
allow for it to vary its charges with prior notice. So I would expect Alliance Trust to have 
made its customers aware of the changes and to offer reasonable alternatives  which I 
think it did here.
 
But Mr K also questioned why Alliance Trust continued to apply the supplementary fee after 
the shares were sold and the account effectively held no assets. Hes also concerned that it 
sold the shares, at a low price, without his authority and making him aware of what it would 
do with the proceeds.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ks sale instruction from his email of 27 August 2018. It stated firstly, 
the stock needs to be sold ASAP. This was an instruction from Mr K, based on the three 
options Alliance Trust set out for him in its email. So Alliance Trust needed to carry out 
Mr Ks instruction, which, importantly did not include a request for his account to be closed. 
So I cant say Alliance Trust acted incorrectly both by carrying out the instruction to sell the 
stock and by continuing to apply the legitimate supplementary charge to the account. And in 
any case Alliance Trust was simply providing an execution only service here, so it couldnt 
advise Mr K on what he should do in this situation. And it has confirmed that it would only 
have to been able to close the account on receipt of an instruction from the account holder 
(the other SIPP trustees)  who didnt provide an instruction to that effect. 
But in any case, Alliance Trust, having subsequently reviewed all such accounts prior to 
migration to another business, recently decided to close the accounts and waive any existing 
fees. In Mr Ks case this led to all the fees that were deducted after the sale of his stock 
being wiped out and his account being closed. So the only fees that werent refunded to 
Mr Ks plan were the supplementary and annual charges levied before the stock was sold. 
As Ive already said I think Alliance Trust did make Mr K aware of these charges, so I think it 
was entitled to continue to apply them. 
Mr K said he thought Alliance Trust would suspend its fees when he asked us to carry out an 
investigation into his complaint about the charges. But I dont think there was any obligation 
for Alliance Trust to halt the application of its ongoing fees while we continued to look into 
the matter.
I do understand Mr Ks frustrations here and I accept that, considering the size of his stock 
holding, he would be unlikely to want to continue paying a charge that amounted to over one 
third of the value of his investment. But I cant safely say Alliance Trust has done anything 
wrong here. Its provided evidence of the communication it sent to all its customers about the 
changes to the account charges including the new supplementary charge. And it gave 
customers an extension of time to take the opportunity do something about any shares that 
would incur the charge  such as transferring without charge. And Im satisfied that it did 
send that letter to Mr K along with its other customers. 
Ive also seen Mr Ks instruction to sell the stock but with no accompanying request to close 
the account  which would have required the SIPP trustees permission as well. 
So I think Alliance Trust had the right to continue applying charges according to its revised 
T&CS. I note that Alliance Trust has subsequently closed these accounts and waived any 
outstanding fees  in Mr Ks case this included all the fees incurred since the stock was sold, 
which seems like a fair and reasonable solution to the situation.Mr K has also suggested that the SIPP trustees havent received any communication about 
the closure of the account and the refund of fees. He says Alliance Trusts failure to update 
the trustees is another indication of its poor administration and failure to communicate 
information to all the parties involved. He questioned whether he should complain about this 
matter as well. Im unsure why the information hasnt been provided to the trustees, if that 
indeed is the case. But if the matter still hasnt been resolved then the SIPP trustees might 
wish to complain directly to Alliance Trust about the lack of communication.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman