DRN-4041291
The complaint
Mr T complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of his car insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr T had car insurance underwritten by Admiral. He made a claim after he was very 
unfortunately involved in an accident in early October 2022.
Admiral accepted the claim and just over a week later told Mr T that his car was beyond 
economic repair.
Admiral valued Mr Ts car at £22,465 and paid his claim on that basis (less the excess). After 
the finance on the car was paid off, Mr T received just under £4,300.
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to Admiral. He brought his complaint to 
our attention at the same time.
Mr T thought Admirals valuation of his car was too low  and lower than the price hed 
bought it for and insured it for. He was unhappy hed had to pay for a car rental for the week 
or so it took Admiral to decide his car should be written off. And he said Admiral were slow to 
respond to his claim and his queries.
Admiral hadnt provided Mr T with a final response to his complaint within eight weeks. So, 
our investigator looked into it.
Whilst she was doing so, Admiral sent a final response to Mr T. They admitted the service 
Mr T received had been poor and there were unnecessary delays in responding to his 
complaint. And they offered Mr T £225 in total in compensation.
They also said theyd looked again at the car valuation and increased it by £285. They 
offered to pay Mr T that amount plus interest at 8%.
I understand Admiral sent Mr T a cheque reflecting their final response. Mr T tells us he 
hasnt cashed it, pending the outcome of our investigation, because he still feels the 
valuation of his car is too low.
Our investigators view was that the offer from Admiral was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Mr T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill give my view on the valuation of the car first and then consider the other aspects of Mr Ts 
complaint.
The valuation
Mr T has provided copies of advertisements of cars for sale that are similar to his own car. 
They give much higher valuations than the amount offered by Admiral.
However, those advertisements appear to be for cars with different specifications and/or 
lower mileage than Mr Ts vehicle. 
Advertisements, by definition, also tend to reflect the very best price the seller can hope to 
achieve for the vehicle. Actual sale prices are a better indicator of a cars value. And thats 
what the motor industry trade guides tend to reflect.
Mr Ts policy sets out that the most Admiral will pay when deeming a car beyond economic 
repair is the market value. That term is defined in the policy, which says that the value will be 
based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides. 
When they first valued Mr Ts car, Admiral used a single trade guide which they told Mr T 
they regard as the most reliable indicator of market value.
After he complained, they looked at another trade guide, which gave a slightly higher 
valuation. And they increased the valuation of Mr Ts car accordingly  by £285.
Weve looked at other trade guides. All of which indicate that the value of Mr Ts car at the 
relevant time was somewhere between £22,465 and just over £24,000.
I cant reasonably conclude then that Admirals second valuation of the car was unfair. 
Admiral say in the policy terms that theyll use the trade guides. We think thats a fair way to 
come to valuations. And in this case, the final valuation offered by Admiral is within a fairly 
narrow band of valuations offered by the different guides.
Hire car costs 
Mr Ts policy says very clearly that courtesy cars will be offered by Admirals preferred 
repairer for the period during which a car is being repaired. It says equally clearly that there 
will be no courtesy car if the vehicle is deemed beyond economic repair.
Those policy terms are not unusual  something like them appears in many, if not most, 
standard car insurance policies. Theyre also not unfair, as long as the decision to write off a 
car is taken reasonably quickly, which means the customer receives the pay out in good time 
and can presumably purchase a similar car reasonably soon after the accident.
In this case, Admiral made that decision after just over a week. Ill consider below whether 
their service to Mr T in that period was poor, but I cant reasonably conclude that any delay 
in making that decision was so long that Admiral ought to have provided a courtesy car in 
the meantime. 
Delays and poor service
Mr T says he had to contact Admiral to get his claim progressed after hed made it. And he 
says they were slow to respond or, on occasion, didnt respond at all. He says they also 
failed to proactively update him in a timely manner about developments in the claim, such as 
the car being moved from one repairer to another.Admiral have admitted the service they provided was poor at times. And theyve offered 
£200 in compensation for that particular aspect of Mr Ts complaint.
Its clear to me then that there were failings in the way Admiral handled the claim in that first 
week or two. The question for me is whether the compensation they offered is enough - and 
Ill deal with that below.
Putting things right
After our investigation had begun, Admiral offered Mr T an increase in the valuation of his 
car  which I think was fair and reasonable, for the reasons Ive set out above. I also think it 
was fair and reasonable for Admiral to offer to add interest at 8% simple on that additional 
amount (£285). 
I dont think Admiral need to do anything more in response to Mr Ts complaint about the 
courtesy car. He wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under the terms of the policy and there was 
nothing unfair or unreasonable about that.
The poor service Admiral have admitted was limited to a very brief period in the early stages 
of the claim. I can understand Mr Ts frustration a having to chase Admiral for updates on the 
progress of the claim  and for a decision about whether the car was to be written off, but Im 
satisfied the £200 offered by Admiral is sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset 
Mr T suffered for that brief period of time.
Admiral also offered £25 in compensation for their delayed response to Mr Ts complaint. Its 
not for me to interfere with that  complaints-handling is not a regulated activity and 
therefore doesnt fall within our scope. I assume in any case that Admiral are happy to pay 
that £25, as theyve offered.
I should also at this point be clear about the outcome of this complaint. As our investigator 
has explained to the parties, because Admirals offer  which I consider fair and reasonable 
 was only made after our investigation began, our rules dictate that I uphold this complaint, 
even though I think that offer is fair.
That means that in the section below, Ill set out what Admiral needed to do to put things 
right for Mr T. I am of course aware that Admiral have already sent Mr T a cheque covering 
the increase in valuation of the car and compensation for Mr Ts trouble and upset. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:
increase the valuation of Mr Ts car by £285, as theyve offered to do, and settle his 
claim in line with that valuation; 
pay interest on that amount at 8% simple, as theyve offered to do, for the period of 
time between the initial settlement payment and the revised offer to Mr T; and 
pay Mr T £200 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman