DRN-2161082
The complaint
Mr R complains Covea Insurance Plc didnt accept a claim he made under his motor 
insurance policy and avoided the policy (treated as though it never existed).
  
Mr R is represented in this case by Mr Z. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr R reported his car stolen. He made a claim to Covea for the theft. 
When Covea were looking into the claim, it found a number of issues. Mr R wasnt the 
registered keeper. The V5 document listed a limited company - which Ill call Company S - 
as the registered keeper. Covea also found the finance agreement for the car was in 
Company S name signed by Mr Zs wife, Mrs Z.
 
Mr R told Covea that Company S had leased the car on his behalf. He said hed paid the 
deposit for the car and made monthly repayments to Company S to cover the finance 
payments. But when Covea asked him to provide evidence of those payments, he said he 
couldnt do so. 
As part of its investigation, Covea interviewed Mr Z because the tracking system alerted 
Mr Z that the car was missing. Mr Z said he paid the deposit for the car through the 
company. He provided a bank statement to show the funds being paid from Company S 
account.
 
Covea also found Mr R had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) which he hadnt declared when 
he renewed the insurance and that the insured car didnt have a valid MOT when it was 
stolen. 
For these reasons, Covea decided it wasnt going to pay Mr Rs claim and it also avoided 
Mr Rs policy from the beginning. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Coveas decision. He complained that theyd refused the claim, 
avoided his policy and taken too long to investigate the claim. 
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint. He said, in summary, he thought Covea had 
looked into the claim fairly  making the usual enquiries hed expect  and had decided not 
to pay the claim and avoided Mr Rs policy fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
 
As Mr Z, on Mr Rs behalf, didnt agree with the Investigators assessment, the complaints 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr R bought his policy, and when he later renewed it, he had a responsibility under 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. For an insurer to take any action or not 
honour a claim, it needs to show that Mr R didnt do this and that he made whats called a 
qualifying misrepresentation. I dont think Covea explained why it had decided to avoid 
Mr Rs policy in these terms  so it couldve been clearer about this. But I dont think this 
means Covea treated Mr R unfairly when it decided to avoid his policy, for reasons Ill 
explain. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things to consider when deciding if a consumer has failed to 
take reasonable care and one of these is what questions the consumer was asked. Ive seen 
a copy of the statement of fact from 2017 when the policy was originally taken out. Ive also 
got a recording of the conversation Mr R had with the broker who arranged the insurance. 
During the call, Mr R can be heard telling his broker that Company S is the registered 
keeper. If Mr R has concerns about what the broker did, he can make a complaint to them 
separately.
However, Mr R then received a statement of fact from Covea  which says:
Please read the following facts carefully, they are a record of the information provided by 
you. If you are satisfied that, to the best of your knowledge and belief, the information in this
document is correct then you do not need to do anything. If any of the facts are incomplete 
or incorrect, please contact us or your broker immediately.
So Mr R had an obligation when he received the documents to check that the information 
contained in them was correct, and if it wasnt, to let Covea or his broker know straight away. 
Having looked at the statement of fact, I find it was clear that Mr R had been noted as the 
registered keeper at the outset of the policy.
The statement of fact goes on to say that a failure to correct any incorrect facts may lead to 
claims being refused or the policy being cancelled. Theres no dispute that Mr R didnt 
correct this fact with his broker or with Covea during the life of the policy. And theres no 
dispute that Mr R wasnt the cars registered keeper. 
When Mr Rs policy renewed he entered into a new contract with Covea. And again, he had 
an obligation to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Ive seen copies of 
the statements of fact for each subsequent year Mr R held the policy up to 2019 when it was 
cancelled. In each one, Mr R is named as the registered keeper. And in the 2019 renewal 
notice, Mr R was asked to say whether he had any CCJs and this information is not present. 
When asked by Covea, Mr R said he wasnt aware of the CCJ. But he also told Covea he 
was aware of a charge on his property in relation to the same debt. So I think its more likely 
than not that Mr R was aware of something that he shouldve taken more care to find out the 
details of, before telling Covea he didnt have a CCJ. 
Having considered what Mr R was asked at the inception of the policy and at renewal, Im 
satisfied he failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. I find he made 
misrepresentations about the registered keeper of the car when he first took out the policy, 
and later each time the policy was renewed. I also find he made a misrepresentation when 
he didnt tell Covea about the CCJ at the 2019 renewal. 
To show that its a qualifying misrepresentation, Covea needs to show it would either not 
have offered the policy at all if the misrepresentation hadnt been made. Or that it wouldve 
offered cover but on different terms. Coveas provided evidence of its underwriting criteria 
which shows that it would not have offered Mr R cover at all if itd known he wasnt the 
registered keeper of the vehicle at the outset. Coveas underwriting criteria shows that Covea might not have been willing to continue providing cover in 2019 had it been told he 
had a CCJ  but I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome here because its shown 
that it wouldnt have offered the policy at all based on the registered keeper being 
Company S. 
In line with the misrepresentation, Covea also said Mr R didnt have an insurable interest in 
the car. It said this because Mr R wasnt the cars registered keeper and because, when 
asked, he couldnt substantiate that he had ever made any payments towards the car. In 
those circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Covea to conclude Mr R didnt 
have an insurable interest. 
Overall, I find Covea was entitled to cancel Mr Rs policy. Covea has said Mr R is entitled to 
a refund of his premiums as it concluded his misrepresentation was careless. In the 
circumstances, I find Covea has been more than reasonable by concluding Mr Rs 
misrepresentations were careless and refunding his premiums. 
As Covea has avoided Mr Rs policy  this means the position is now as though Mr R was 
never insured. Which means at the time of the theft, in effect, there was no policy in place. 
So Covea is entitled to refuse to pay Mr Rs claim.
There are further reasons Covea says its not prepared to meet Mr Rs claim. At the time of 
the theft, the car didnt have a valid MOT  Im not sure on its own this wouldve been 
enough for Covea to say it wasnt prepared to deal with Mr Rs claim. But given Im already 
satisfied Covea was entitled to cancel Mr Rs policy for the reasons Ive already explained, I 
dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
 
Mr R is also unhappy with the amount of time it took Covea to look into the claim. Mr R 
reported the theft on 26 June 2019. Covea wrote to Mr R on 29 October 2019 to say it would 
be cancelling his policy and not meeting his claim. I can understand why Mr R was keen for 
matters to be resolved but Im satisfied  having looked at everything that was happening  
Covea were making the usual enquiries in relation to Mr Rs claim. And that it did so without 
any undue delays. 
I understand Mr R and Mr Z will be disappointed with my decision but, having considered all 
the circumstances of the case, I find Covea was entitled to cancel Mr Rs policy and so it 
doesnt have to meet Mr Rs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman