DRN-3829029
The complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to let him reject a faulty vehicle.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr B acquired a second-hand vehicle at a cost of £13,000. This was 
funded by a conditional sale agreement and a deposit of £400. It was a little over five years 
old and had covered some 80,647 miles.
Shortly after acquiring the vehicle Mr B encountered some issues. These included: the 
engine management light was illuminated, the vehicle rattled while travelling at a certain 
speed, there was minimal oil in the gearbox, the offside driveshaft and air flow sensor had to 
be replaced and oil had to be put in the gearbox. He contacted Moneybarn in April 2021 and 
it agreed to pay him £1,026.42 towards the repairs as well as a further £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr B may have experienced as a result of the time taken 
to investigate and conclude the complaint.
Mr B accepted this offer. However, further problems arose not long after. He says the engine 
management light had again become illuminated in January 2022 and the vehicle broke 
down and was unable to be used from March 2022 onwards.
Mr B took the vehicle to a local MOT Centre on 14 March 2022 and they diagnosed a 
misfiring engine due to a cracked piston which was caused as a result of excessive oil 
pressure within the engine.
Mr B has been unable to use the vehicle since that point and he raised a further complaint 
against Moneybarn due to these further issues. In his complaint, he told Moneybarn about 
the MOT Centres diagnosis and said he also asked for a mobile diesel specialist to look into 
the matter. The specialist concluded the vehicle would require a new engine.
Moneybarn was slow to respond and Mr B brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
had been paying for a vehicle hes been unable to use since March 2022. Moneybarn had 
offered to instruct an independent expert to inspect the van, but despite Mr B s cooperation 
it had failed to do so. 
As a result of the numerous issues he experienced with the vehicle shortly after it was 
supplied and the subsequent issues which made it undrivable, Mr B says hes now lost 
confidence in the vehicle and wants to be able to reject it.
Our investigator issued his opinion that Mr B should be allowed to reject the vehicle. 
Moneybarn asked for further information, which was supplied, but it has not responded 
beyond that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has set out in some detail why he considers this complaint should be upheld 
and I agree. I will explain why briefly.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is clear the vehicle was defective and Moneybarn accepted that when Mr B initially 
complained. It responded by covering the cost of repairs and further compensation. 
However, the car has suffered a major incident and is no longer usable without a 
replacement engine.
I accept the vehicle wasnt new and had covered a reasonable mileage, but I consider it 
reasonable to expect it to have lasted longer than it has done. A vehicle of that age and 
mileage should not suffer such a catastrophic fault.
I can only conclude that the faults were present at the point of sale. An independent report 
would have been of assistance, but I have noted the various reports from third party garages 
and the AA and I am satisfied that it is fair to conclude that it was faulty at the point of sale.
I have concluded that only fair way to resolve this complaint is to allow Mr B to reject the 
vehicle.
Putting things right
Mr B should be allowed to reject the vehicle and be compensated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn to:
end the agreement with nothing further for Mr B to pay;
collect the vehicle at no further cost to Mr B;
refund Mr Bs deposit contribution of £400;pay a refund of the monthly payments from 2 March 2022 to the date of settlement as 
Mr B reasonably stopped using the vehicle at this point;
refund Mr B £419.90 for the additional expenses hes incurred;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £300 for any trouble and upset thats been caused due to the 
faulty goods;
remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file in relation to the agreement (if 
any)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman