DRN-2294968
Complaint
Miss A has complained that 1plus 1 Loans Limited (trading as 1plus 1 Loans) provided her 
with an unaffordable guarantor loan at a time when she had a gambling addiction. 
  
Background
1plus 1 Loans provided Miss A with a loan of £4,000.00 in May 2018. This loan had an APR 
of 47.93% and a 48-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £8,000.16 was 
due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of around £167.67.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that 1plus 1 Loans had unfairly 
provided Miss A with this loan. So she recommended the complaint be upheld. 1plus 1 
Loans disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss As complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss As complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 1plus 1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss A would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss A wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did 1plus 1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did 1plus 1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss A would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
1plus 1 Loans provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required 1plus 1 Loans to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss As ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 1plus 1 Loans had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss A. In practice this
meant that 1plus 1 Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss A undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 1plus 1 Loans to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss A. 
The existence of a guarantee and the potential for 1plus 1 Loans to pursue the guarantor 
instead of Miss A, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this 
obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were 1plus 1 Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
1plus 1 Loans says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss A 
prior to providing her with his loan. It also carried out a credit check, checked Miss As 
income electronically and cross-referenced Miss As expenditure against data from the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS). All of these checks indicated that Miss A was earning 
around £1,719.20 a month and had total expenses of £1,148.00 leaving her with £570.70 in 
monthly disposable income. 
The credit check 1plus 1 Loans carried out showed that Miss A had three other existing 
guarantor loans from other providers. Although the conversation suggested 2 of them might 
be repaid with the proceeds of this loan. 1plus 1 Loans says Miss A had enough left to be 
able to comfortably make the required monthly loan payments, when the living costs and the monthly payments left needed to meet the credit commitments shown on the credit check 
once they were consolidated by this loan, were deducted from Miss As monthly income. 
 
Ive carefully thought about what 1plus 1 Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check 1plus 1 Loans carried out indicated that Miss A had three guarantor loans 
already as well as a default on her credit file. Equally while there might have been some 
suggestion Miss A would use the proceeds from this loan to consolidate 2 of her existing 
guarantor loans, Miss A was hardly unequivocal over this. Im also mindful that the funds 
advanced werent even enough to have consolidated the loans in question. I also have to 
question how 1plus 1 Loans can reasonably have believed Miss A would take this course of 
action for a marginal monthly saving in circumstances where she supposedly had a monthly 
disposable income approaching £600. 
Bearing in mind the regulatory rules place an obligation to carry out a borrower focused 
check, where previous repayment difficulties are apparent, I would expect a lender to take 
additional steps to verify that a consumer can take on an additional commitment before 
providing it. 
I also have concerns with 1plus 1 Loans use of ONS data to calculate Miss As living 
expenses. 1plus 1 Loans may say the FCA permits the use of statistical data to estimate a 
prospective borrowers non-discretionary expenditure. I accept that this is the case but its 
also fair to say it also states that it is unfair to rely on such data where it is unlikely to be 
reasonably representative of the prospective borrowers situation. 
1plus 1 Loans used ONS data, which was based on the finances and expenditure of the 
average consumer, to estimate Miss As living expenses. But 1plus 1 Loans knew, when it 
lent to Miss A, that it was providing a loan to someone whose credit file suggested they fell 
outside this average portfolio. I dont think that using ONS data  which was unlikely to 
reflect the existing commitments and expenditure of someone in Miss As position is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate.
Furthermore, Im also concerned how 1plus 1 Loans seems to have accepted at face value 
that Miss A had a monthly disposable income of approaching £600. This is despite the fact 
that this disposable income was clearly at odds with what her credit file was displaying and 
her apparent need for a fourth guarantor loan. 
I want to confirm that Ive also seen what 1plus 1 Loans has said about outcomes reached in 
another unrelated case confirming that its checks were proportionate. But I dont think that it 
is appropriate for me to review the conclusions reached by other casehandlers on a 
completely separate and unrelated case. 
In any event, Ive already explained that 1plus 1 Loans was required to carry out a borrower 
focused check. And it is the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial 
history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) together with the type, amount and cost of credit being provided thats the main 
driver in determining whether a check is proportionate. So its entirely possible that a 
proportionate check  for similar loan amounts - could look different depending on the 
individual circumstances of the prospective borrower.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that 1plus 1 Loans needed to take steps to verify Miss As 
expenditure and consider what is was made up of instead of choosing to rely on an over 
optimistic calculation of her monthly disposable income based on data and declared income. As I cant see that 1plus 1 Loans did do this, or in fact take any steps at all to address the 
apparent mismatch between Miss As credit file and the disposable income arrived at, I dont 
think that the checks it carried out before providing Miss A with her loan were reasonable 
and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to 1plus 1 Loans that Miss A
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told 1plus 1 Loans that Miss A wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Miss A has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Miss A has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks 1plus 1 Loans mightve carried out.
But in the absence of anything else from 1plus 1 Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Miss As financial circumstances were more likely than 
not to have been at the time. To be clear, Ive not looked at Miss As bank statements 
because I think that 1plus 1 Loans ought to have obtained them before lending to her  
although it does appear as though 1plus 1 Loans did obtain some open banking information. 
Ive consulted Miss As bank statements because they were readily available at this stage 
and they contain the information I now need to reconstruct the proportionate check 1plus 1 
Loans should have but failed to carry out.
As Ive already explained, 1plus 1 Loans was required to establish whether Miss A could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the 
basis that it, in any event, had a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover 
payments from the guarantor.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further 
in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered the information Miss A has provided in light of all of this.
The information provided shows that Miss As income wasnt too dissimilar to what shed 
declared and what was confirmed by 1plus 1 Loans electronic checks. But 1plus 1 Loans is 
aware that significant sums of money were being gambled from Miss As account. And the 
sums of money involved are a clear indication that Miss A was unlikely to be able to repay 
this loan without borrowing further or suffering undue financial difficulty. In other words, there 
was a realistic prospect the funds would be used for unsustainable purposes.
In reaching my conclusions on this matter, Ive considered what 1plus 1 Loans has said 
about it being possible that someone else might have been using Miss As account to 
gamble. But there is absolutely no evidence of this. And Miss A most likely stopped gambling as much when the credits referred to were no longer going into her account because she did 
no longer had the funds to be able to do so. 
In any event, even if 1plus 1 Loans is observation is accurate, I want to make it clear that I 
dont think that this is the case, I dont think it would have been fair and reasonable to 
advance funds in circumstances where it ought to have been apparent the funds might well 
be gambled  irrespective of who might have taken that course of action. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss A was unlikely to have been able to make 
the repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, 
in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted 1plus 1 Loans to the fact that Miss A would not be able to sustainably 
make the repayments to this loan. 
Did 1plus 1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss A in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude 1plus 1 Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss A in 
some other way.  
So I find that 1plus 1 Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss A in some other 
way.  
Did Miss A lose out as a result of 1plus 1 Loans unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss A has paid or is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that she
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what
1plus 1 Loans did wrong.
So I think that 1plus 1 Loans needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation - what 1plus 1 Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss A
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Miss As complaint for 1plus 1 Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The
payments Miss A has made should be deducted from the £4,000.00 she was
originally lent. 1plus 1 Loans should treat any payments made if and when the
£4,000.00 has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be
refunded to Miss A;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date
they were made by Miss A to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file as a result of 
this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 1plus 1 Loans to take off tax from this interest.
1plus 1 Loans must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if
she asks for one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss As complaint. 1plus 1 Loans Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman