DRN-3216236
The complaint
Mr P complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr P was given a loan by 118 118 Money as follows: 
Loan start 
dateLoan 
amountMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan term - 
monthsLoan 
ended
2/9/2019 £1,000 £92.06 £1,657.08 18 03/03/2020
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ps complaint. He didnt think that 118 118 Money 
shouldve provided the loan to Mr P so he recommended upholding the complaint and he set 
out the steps 118 118 Money needed to take to put things right. 
118 118 Money disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that there was nothing 
on the credit file it obtained that would have triggered seeking additional information and its 
checks supported the lending decision.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just 
checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a 
proportionate check might also require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
118 118 Money asked Mr P about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - 
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that 118 118 Money 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr P. 
118 118 Money was satisfied that its income and expenditure assessment showed that Mr P 
should comfortably be able to make the repayments on his 118 118 Money loan out of his 
disposable income after paying his other monthly costs. So 118 118 Money felt this loan was 
affordable for Mr P.
But like our adjudicator, I dont think 118 118 Money properly took into account the 
information it had gathered about Mr Ps overall financial situation or the likelihood of him 
being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think 118 118 Money made a 
fair lending decision when it lent to Mr P based on the information its credit checks revealed.
Despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr P had enough spare cash each 
month easily to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think 118 118 Money shouldve 
realised that it couldnt rely on this information. Thats because what Mr P had declared was 
significantly at odds with what 118 118 Money saw on its credit checks showing Mr Ps credit 
history. Contrary to information Mr P had declared, its credit checks showed he had taken 
out two unsecured loans within the previous 3 months, he was also paying vehicle finance 
and he was practically up to his £280 overdraft limit on a current account. 
118 118 Money understood that Mr Ps monthly income was around £1,095. So this meant 
that the total credit repayments he needed to make when he took out this loan took his debt 
servicing costs to around £388  which was more than a third of his take home pay. And this 
didnt include him making any inroads into his overdraft at the bank. Bearing in mind that 
Mr P had also said he lived free of charge in another household, I think 118 118 Money 
should have realised that there was no obvious explanation why someone with the level of 
income Mr P had declared should apparently need to rely to this extent on using expensive 
credit.
I think this shouldve prompted the lender to do more in-depth checks because it didnt look 
like 118 118 Money had a proper understanding of Mr Ps financial situation given the 
contradictions between what he had said (or omitted to say), the amount of disposable 
income 118 118 Money thought he had and the record of borrowing its own credit checks 
revealed. So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Bank statements provided by Mr P are a useful guide to understanding his overall financial 
situation at the time. These show that in addition to the two loans that 118 118 Money was 
aware of, he had also taken another loan of £1,100 just a week or so earlier. 
With the repayment for this loan as well, Mr P was committed to spending such a significant 
proportion of his income just on servicing debt that there was a serious risk he wouldnt be 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again during the loan term. 
As well as this, had 118 118 Money done what I consider wouldve been a proportionate 
check, it would likely have found out also that Mr P was spending significantly on gambling. 
Given that Mr Ps spending pattern meant that he was persistently exceeding his overdraft 
limit, to the extent that his weekly pay wasnt enough to return the account to credit, I dont 
think 118 118 Money could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr P wouldnt put him in a worse position  particularly given the evidence it saw which suggested 
the likelihood this loan might be used to effectively fund what looked like a gambling 
problem.
So, for all these reasons I believe that if 118 118 Money had done a proportionate check it 
shouldve realised that this wasnt a sustainably affordable position for Mr P and it shouldnt 
have provided this loan. For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and 118 118 
Money needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Its fair and reasonable for Mr P to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that lending  but its unfair to expect him to repay more than the capital 
amount he borrowed. 
I understand the loan is repaid so 118 118 Money should do the following:
oadd up the total amount of money Mr P received as a result of being given 
the loan. The payments Mr P made should be deducted from this amount
oif this results in Mr P having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
oremove any adverse information placed on Mr Ps credit file regarding the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 
118 Money must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money 
to put things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman