DRN-3893719
The complaint
Ms E complains about a claim she made to Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation)
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ms E paid £800 for a new cooker from a supplier Ill call A in September 2019. She used a
credit card provided by Creation.
The cooker remained in storage until the new kitchen was fitted in 2021 but shortly after the
oven was installed the power tripped.
The business asked Ms E to provide an independent report from a qualified electrician. He
confirmed that the cooker was installed correctly and passed all the tests but the fault
causing the mini circuit breaker (MCB) to trip was located within the appliance. He said the
cooker was dangerous to use and he disconnected it.
A subsequently arranged for an electrician to attend. That electrician heated both cavities
of the oven to 200 degrees and explained that at no point did the appliance trip the electrics.
Our investigator didnt think Creation were unreasonable when they rejected Ms Es section
75 claim. She thought it was likely that the oven hadnt been connected properly. She also
noted that Ms E had suggested the oven had been misrepresented to her as it transpired it
was mainly glass and not stainless steel, as had been advertised, but she didnt think it was
fair to uphold that complaint as Ms E had had the cooker so long before she raised the
issue.
Ms E didnt agree and the complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for
a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I dont currently agree with the investigators view and
Im expecting to uphold this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here,
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
The relevant legislation is the Consumer Rights Act 2015. That says the goods should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied.
The onus is on Ms E to demonstrate there is a fault with the oven but if there is a fault that
makes the oven of unsatisfactory quality then the relevant legislation gives the consumer
rights to get the oven repaired, replaced, or refunded.
This was a brand new oven and Ms Es electrician provided a report that suggested there
was a short circuit or earth at the appliance that was causing it to trip the correctly
connected circuit. I think Ms E was therefore able to demonstrate there was a fault.
There have been some misleading comments made to suggest the cooker was not
connected correctly. The cooker required a 20A supply and Ms Es electrician stated:
With the local cooker isolator off (Cooker Control Unit) and nothing plugged into the 13A
CCU socket I reset the circuit MCB. This held in the on position. I then switched on the
isolator at the CCU and could hear a pop in the oven unit and the breaker trip. In my
experience this gave all the indications that there was a short circuit or an earth fault at the
appliance. This would concur with the customer report of occasional, intermittent tripping.
Ive read his subsequent explanation and its clear the 13A socket is one adjacent to the
Cooker Control Unit switch. It doesnt mean the cooker is connected to a 13A supply.
Indeed, Ms Es electrician confirmed The cooker was installed correctly and passed all the
teststhe fault with the MCB is located within the appliance it is dangerous to use.
The relevant legislation gives the supplier an opportunity to repair any faults that were
present when the oven was supplied. I think this fault was likely to be present when the oven
was supplied as I accept Ms Es explanation that the oven was kept in storage until the
kitchen was installed. I can see the photographs of the oven Ms E has supplied suggest it is
in an as new condition and doesnt appear to have had much, if any, use. I think that
supports her assertion the oven tripped when first fitted and the fault was therefore present
from the beginning. 
The supplier visited Ms E in about September 2021 to inspect and presumably to repair the
oven. The report said that hed tested both cavities and there were no problems with the
oven.
Im not persuaded by those comments as I dont think they adequately address the concerns
raised by the electrician Ms E commissioned. Ms Es electrician provided a detailed report
and supplementary comments to demonstrate that when visiting the property, the oven
failed. That supports Ms Es testimony of the device tripping and her sons similar report.
There seems little point in Ms E raising an issue with the oven tripping if it wasnt. The
suppliers electrician provided very brief comments and theres no test results or detailed
commentary to support his assessment or to adequately dispute Ms Es electrical report. Hemakes no comment on the adequacy of the ovens connection, for instance.
I find Ms Es electrical report more persuasive and I think there is a fault with this cooker and
that the business failed to repair it when they sent out an electrician.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the consumer to reject the goods.
I think that information was available to Creation and I therefore think they were
unreasonable to reject Ms Es section 75 claim.
They should therefore refund the £800 Ms E paid for the oven and theyll need to add 8%
simple interest to that refund as Ms E has been deprived of that money. The 8% can be
calculated from the point at which Ms E made her complaint as its not fair to ask Creation to
pay interest for the time the device was in storage.
The relevant legislation allows Creation to make a deduction from the refund for the use the
consumer has had from the goods. But here I dont think Ms E has had any use of the oven
so Im not suggesting any deduction is made.
I think its likely Ms E had to pay for the electrical report she commissioned to demonstrate
the problem with the oven. She wouldnt have had to do that if the oven was of a satisfactory
quality so Creation should refund the cost of that report if Ms E can evidence it.
Ms E also complained that the oven was misrepresented to her as she said it was advertised
as stainless steel and when the packaging was opened it was clear it was predominantly
glass. I think it would be unreasonable to ask Creation to take any action on that basis as I
think a reasonable inspection of the goods when they were received would have identified
the misrepresentation, and by keeping the goods for so long before complaining of
misrepresentation Ms E was accepting of them. However, had I upheld the
misrepresentation claim, in this instance, I dont think it would have led me to order a
different redress. Im persuaded there was a breach of contract and thats enough, in these
circumstances, to suggest a refund is necessary.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to tell Creation Financial Services Limited to:
Take the oven back at their own cost.
Refund the £800 Ms E paid for the oven and add 8% simple interest per year to the
refund from the date they received her complaint until the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of Ms Es electrical report on provision of a receipt from Ms E to
demonstrate what she paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation accepted my provisional decision and Ms E didnt provide any further comments so 
Ive not been provided with any information that would lead me to change it.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Financial Services 
Limited to:
Take the oven back at their own cost.
Refund the £800 Ms E paid for the oven and add 8% simple interest per year to the
refund from the date they received her complaint until the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of Ms Es electrical report on provision of a receipt from Ms E to
demonstrate what she paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman