DRN-3740697
The complaint
Miss K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund the money she 
lost as part of a scam.
Miss K is represented in bringing her complaint, but for ease of reading Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her.
What happened
Miss K runs a small business and in March 2021, purchased some goods online for her 
business. She thought that the order looked genuine and that the online business she 
purchased from would have done its own checks into the merchant she was ordering the 
goods from.
Miss K ended up making several payments, totalling over £5,500 to this merchant. But after 
a lot of correspondence back and forth with the merchant and after noting some 
inconsistencies with what they were saying, Miss K realised that she had been the victim of 
a scam.
In December 2021, Miss K contacted Halifax to tell it what happened and to explain why she 
thought that Halifax should refund her the payments. She said that Halifax should have 
spotted that these payments were unusual for her, in both the amounts they were for and the 
frequency of them. She also thought that Halifax should have noticed that they left her 
substantially overdrawn.
Halifax responded and said that it wouldnt be refunding the payments. It explained that the 
payments didnt look suspicious and it had no reason to be concerned. It didnt think that it 
could have done any more to prevent Miss K from making these payments. Miss K didnt 
agree with this and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think that Halifax should have spotted that these 
payments were unusual. They said that Miss K had made larger payments like these before 
and that while they did result in her using her overdraft, this facility had also been used 
regularly in the previous twelve months. Miss K didnt agree and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to see what happened to Miss K here. Its clear that she was the victim of a 
very genuine looking and convincing scam, which led to her losing a significant amount of 
money. But, having thought carefully about what shes told us and what Halifax has done, I 
dont think itd be fair and reasonable to say that Halifax can be held liable for the payments 
here.
As the payment was an international transfer outside of the UK, the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model doesnt apply here. And under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, Miss K authorised the payment. That means that shes presumed liable for her loss in 
the first instance  but thats not where the considerations end.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. Having done so, I 
consider that there may be circumstances where it would be appropriate for Halifax to take 
additional steps, or make further checks before processing a payment, to protect a customer 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
As Miss K points out  an example of this would be where payments are sufficiently unusual, 
or uncharacteristic in the context of the normal use of an account. So Ive considered 
whether thats the case here. In my view, its not though.
I say this because the statements for Miss Ks account show that she had made similar 
transactions for larger amounts before and that she also used her overdraft facility regularly 
too  especially in the months before the disputed transactions here. The payments here 
werent out of character for Miss K in this respect. So I dont think they should have stood 
out, or looked unusual when compared to her genuine account activity. 
Miss K makes the point that these payments were to new payees and that they were 
international transfers. But I dont think these factors alone would have been cause for 
concern. Miss K used her account frequently and for a variety of different purposes and 
transactions. International payments in and of themselves arent unusual and in the context 
of the account here, I dont think they would have stood out to Halifax either.
Ultimately a business like Halifax has to find a balance between making payments for 
customers and monitoring accounts and payments for unusual activity. But here, when 
Miss K made these payments, Halifax wouldnt have known that she was doing so as part of 
a scam. The payments were slightly higher than ones shed made before, but not by 
significant amounts and were in line with the normal use of the account. It was only after this 
that Miss K realised that she had been tricked out of her money  but that doesnt mean that 
there was anything inherently unusual or suspicious about the payments at the time they 
were made.
Miss K makes the point that if Halifax had intervened and asked more questions before 
making the payments here, then it would have become apparent that she was the victim of a 
scam. In looking at this situation impartially though  its only with the benefit of hindsight 
that we now know these payments were being made because of a scam. So for the reasons 
given above, Im not persuaded that Halifax did have grounds to intervene here and its for 
those reasons Im not telling it to refund the payments. 
Ive also looked at what Halifax did after it was put on notice of the scam. Ive seen that it 
told Miss K that she could contact it so it could see what more could be done to try and 
recover these payments. I cant see that Miss K did that though. In these circumstances I 
dont think Halifax could do anything else. Miss K can still approach Halifax to see if it can 
help, but with so much time passing between now and when the payments were made, it 
seems unlikely that Halifax might be able to help now.
Im sorry to see what Miss K has been through here, but the fault here lies with the people 
behind this convincing and cruel scam. I havent seen anything that makes me think itd be 
fair to hold Halifax liable for Miss Ks losses.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman