DRN-4124853
The complaint
Miss D says having informed Inspire Wealth Ltd (IWL) of her intention to take tax-free cash 
(TFC) from her pension and go into drawdown, given a fall in the value of her funds it 
incorrectly advised her to wait until values had bounced back. She says it failed to advise her 
to move her retirement pot into safer funds in preparation for her retirement plans. And that 
she discovered some of her money was invested in excess of her appetite for risk. She says 
shes suffered financial detriment and is devastated as a result of whats happened and that 
IWL has failed in its duty to provide her with a satisfactory pension fund at retirement.
What happened
Miss D became a client of IWL in 2006. She received substantive advice about retirement 
planning, with suitability reports and recommendations in 2006, 2014 and in 2021.
In 2014 IWL recommended Miss D switch one of her personal pensions into a Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with Fidelity Funds Network. The funds of around £42,000 were 
invested according to her assessed balanced attitude to risk using a discretionary 
management approach.
On 24 June 2021, IWL undertook a fact-find with Miss D. This recorded she was 59 and 
living with her partner who owned the property they were living in. She had no dependents. 
She was self-employed and earning around £14,000 a year. She had a net disposable 
monthly income of over £300. She had an emergency fund of about £37,000. She was debt 
free.
Miss Ds goals and needs as recorded at the time were as follows:
To review your Standard Life pension and make any necessary changes to improve growth, 
match risk by potentially transferring into your existing Fidelity SIPP and continue with our 
ongoing service, advice and management of the Fidelity plan. You want to take £25,000 in 
tax free cash to contribute towards the potential home move.
We discussed an income in retirement of £12,000 per annum and if you could retire earlier 
than state pension age (67) you would want to as you do not enjoy your job.
Miss D had two pensions at the time. Her Fidelity SIPP was valued at about £108,000 to 
which she was making monthly contributions of £237. And she had a personal pension plan 
with Standard Life valued at around £34,000 to which she was adding £53 a month.
The fact-find included a risk profiling assessment and based on the discussion Miss D 
agreed she had a moderate attitude to risk. This was said to be consistent with her existing 
Fidelity investments. In terms of her capacity for loss, IWL noted Miss Ds finances needed 
to be resilient enough to withstand a fall in the value of her investments of 19% without 
damaging her lifestyle.
Cash flow modelling showed that Miss D couldnt afford to retire at 60 if she wanted to 
provide for a monthly income of £1,000 per month until the age of 99. It said shed need to 
make further pension contributions of nearly £10,000 by her 60th birthday to achieve that. 
However, the analysis indicated her desired level of income was sustainable until she was 
85, after which the modelling suggested shed have to rely on her state pension.
IWL noted the projection in the cash-flow model was only an estimate, the period her funds 
might last could be longer or shorter depending on market conditions.
IWL confirmed its recommendations in a suitability report dated 27 July 2021. It said Miss D 
should switch her Standard Life pension into the Fidelity SIPP, making future contributions of 
around £300 gross per month until she retired. Her SIPP offered a drawdown facility, 
whereas the Standard Life pension didnt. Switching would help facilitate her plans to take 
benefits from her pension early including £25,000 TFC and then income withdrawals when 
she was ready to retire.
IWL recorded factors it had taken into account in making its recommendations. These 
included that Miss D envisaged being able to maintain her investments between its report 
and when she retired. And that her intention was to remain invested and draw funds over a 
period which allowed her to take a greater income in the earlier years.
IWL also said it had recommended an investment period for Miss Ds SIPP until age 67 
because at the time she hadnt made a clear decision about when her employment would 
end. Whilst her intention was to retire at the earliest opportunity, she intended to stay 
invested and draw funds to maintain flexibility.
IWL issued a further letter on 25 August 2021 outlining what had been agreed following 
discussions it had with Miss D shortly after it had provided her with the suitability report. This 
confirmed the transfer of her Standard Life pension into her SIPP, the level of her regular 
contributions and that her new funds would be invested consistent with her risk appetite and 
in line with the existing SIPP. Once the switch had taken place her pension would be placed 
in drawdown and TFC of £250 taken immediately.
Standard Life had confirmed the transfer value as £36,258.75 in a letter dated 20 August 
2021 and the funds were received by Fidelity on 24 August 2021.
On 16 January 2022 Miss D emailed IWL saying she wanted to start taking her benefits in 
the form of £25,000 TFC and an annual income of £10,000. This communication was 
followed by a telephone conversation on 19 January 2022 during which she became aware 
of a fall in the value of her pension. She says at this point she was advised not to take TFC 
nor to draw down funds until her pension had recovered its value.
IWL refutes that it gave her such advice. It notes a letter it issued to Miss D on 28 January 
2022 which recorded she wanted to start taking benefits from her pension. The agreement 
was to crystalise about £6,700, 25% of which would be TFC. But this wasnt acted upon.
Miss D says that after much thought she emailed IWL on 4 February 2022 with her decision 
not to draw down or take a lump sum.
On 10 February Miss D had another conversation with her adviser. She wanted an 
explanation as to why her fund had dropped. He cited the economic downturn, impact of 
inflation, Covid and the war in Ukraine. Miss D says the adviser thought inflation would drop 
by the second half of 2022 and that her fund value would improve. She said he assured her 
he would keep a very close eye on her portfolio since shed stressed several times that it 
was vital that her fund did not decrease further in value.
Miss D says it was in May 2022 when there were numerous emails between herself and IWL 
about her dissatisfaction with the way her pension had been handled from November 2021 onwards. By this time she says shed discovered some of her pension was invested in high 
risk funds, whereas her portfolio was medium risk. She signed a change of risk letter to 
move her funds into low risk investments. And she discontinued her discretionary fund 
management arrangement.
On 6 June 2022 Miss D sent a formal complaint to IWL expressing her concerns. On 19 
June 2022 she instructed that her funds be sold to cash to stop any further losses.
On 20 June 2022 IWL responded to Miss Ds letter of complaint. It refuted the points shed 
raised, it said it had been her decision to not take TFC and her funds had been invested in 
line with her attitude to risk. It asserted that she was essentially complaining about the 
performance of her investments which it couldnt be held responsible for.
Miss D wasnt satisfied with IWLs response and she brought her case to this Service. She 
provided a schedule setting out how events had unfolded and summarised her complaint in 
the following terms:
My complaint is that, having been aware of my plans to take a tax free sum and to begin 
drawdown in January 2022, my pension fund should have been put into safer funds. I agreed 
in November 2021 to continue as medium risk and my fund remained in medium risk 
investments. However, I have subsequently discovered that some of the funds in which my 
pension was invested were high risk funds and as such unsuitable for my plans to retireI 
was not aware of the high risk of these funds and would not have agreed to my money being 
invested in them if I had knownEven though I instructed Inspire Wealth to take my funds 
out of medium risk and move them to low risk funds in May this year, the fund continued to 
drop.
An Investigator considered Miss Ds complaint. He didnt uphold it. He thought the available 
evidence showed it had been her decision not to take TFC. And that in broad terms her 
funds had been invested according to her appetite for risk. He found the advice she received 
in July 2021 had been suitable.
Miss D disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. She:
- Reiterated it had been IWLs advice for her not to take TFC or enter drawdown in 
January 2022. She says she was told she shouldnt take benefits until the fund had 
bounced back.
- Refuted that her portfolio was broadly medium risk. And she cited one fund in 
particular that was high risk. She said she wasnt made aware of this and would 
never have agreed to it, especially as she was approaching retirement.
- Said she didnt realise that by not drawing £25,000 TFC in January 2022, these funds 
would be lost. She relied on the advice of IWL which told her fund value would pick 
up at the end of 2022.
- Pointed out she was paying a premium for her pension funds to be looked after. IWL 
knew about her retirement plans and circumstances but failed to act accordingly. 
Miss D summarised her position in the following terms:
If Inspire Wealth are not held responsible for the loss in value of my pension fund in the light 
of all of the points I have made above, and instead hide behind the fact that, after they had 
acted negligently in relation to my pension, I chose to seek the advice of another financial 
adviser, then I fail to see in what circumstances a financial adviser could ever be held 
responsible for their actions. I think the fact that they have repeatedly made the point that I 
acted on advice from another FA, and not on their advice, is proof of the fact that they are 
culpable and are grasping at straws in order to avoid liability. As I have stated previously, and I will state here again, I acted on the advice of [IWL]. The fact that this advice was also 
given to me by another FA is beside the point. [IWL] was my financial adviser. [It] advised 
me not to take the lump sum. I followed that advice.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Miss Ds case was passed to me 
to review afresh. I issued a provisional decision in April 2023. Im grateful to both parties for 
their submissions in response, which Ive considered carefully in arriving at this final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened. I tend to place more weight on evidence 
the more contemporaneous it is with events.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by IWL for Miss D. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Miss Ds complaint.
The decision about taking TFC and income from Miss Ds pension
The suitability report produced by IWL in July 2021 identified one of Miss Ds objectives had 
been to access TFC from her pension funds to put towards a potential home move. No dates 
for that purchase were identified. The report did note however these funds were to be taken 
after the transfer of her Standard Life pension into her Fidelity SIPP. It referred to her 
wanting to draw TFC from her pension but defer taking an income from it.
I note the position on how Miss D wanted to start accessing her pension benefits was 
somewhat fluid. For example, she had a discussion with IWL shortly after it had provided her 
with its suitability report. A letter of 25 August 2021 recorded what was agreed, this included that she would go into drawdown after her Standard Life pension had been switched to her 
SIPP and would immediately access TFC, but only £250.
There was a significant gap between IWLs advice and Miss D acting on it. IWL says this is 
because its adviser:
based the advice on the fact that Miss D was going to take the tax free cash out 
immediately. She changed her mind on this and instead wanted to benefit from potentially 
more growth before deciding to take out the tax free cash. Further to this a small amount of 
tax free cash £250 was decided upon so as to trigger the drawdown advice which prevented 
a further fee of £500 being charged for drawdown later, although Miss D also changed her 
mind on this in favour of potentially more growth.
It wasnt until 16 January 2022 when Miss D emailed IWL saying:
I'd like to start drawing on my pension from the beginning of February if that's possible I 
would like to draw down £10,000 a year. I'd also like to give notice of taking a tax-free lump 
sum of £25,000 from my pension towards the purchase of our new house.
Could you get back to me about how long these two things will take? It isn't essential that I 
start drawing down from February if that's too soon; I could wait until March.
This communication was followed by a telephone conversation on 19 January 2022 between 
Miss D and her adviser. During the call it was established the total value of her pension had 
fallen to around £134,000 (it had been £140,023 on 8 January 2022 and £147,104 on 14 
September 2021). She says at this point she was advised not to take TFC nor to draw down 
funds until her pension had recovered its value.
IWL disputes Miss Ds version of events. It says it didnt give Miss D advice not to take her 
TFC. It said Miss D had been unhappy the value of her investment had fallen. And its 
adviser had laid out some options available to her in light of this, but he didn't specifically 
make a recommendation. The adviser laid out the pros and cons and let Miss D choose what 
to do.
Both parties are adamant about their respective recollections of what happened. I think its 
more likely than not that following Miss Ds disappointment with the drop in the value of her 
pension fund, there was a discussion about what her options were. I note in Miss Ds 
testimony she refers to IWLs adviser making various suggestions, including that she 
delayed her retirement by a year in order not to deplete her pension funds and explore 
borrowing money from her partner to help fund their new home.
But I dont think IWL made a recommendation to her during this conversation for Miss D not 
to take benefits at that time. I say this because it actually issued a letter to her on 28 January 
2022 which indicated that following a conversation with her that day she wanted to start 
taking benefits from her pension. The agreement was to crystalise about £6,700, 25% of 
which would be TFC with the remainder providing an income of around £833 per month for 
six months. But this wasnt acted upon.
Miss D emailed IWL on 4 February 2022 in the following terms:
After serious consideration and following advice from another financial adviser I have 
decided not to draw down from my pension at the present time. I would like my monthly 
contributions of £240 to continue for the foreseeable future.
I am extremely disappointed about this situation as I've now had to change many of my 
plans for retirement. I'm also very upset that I will have to use my personal savings in order to contribute towards the purchase price of our new home, rather than taking a tax-free lump 
sum from my pension as I'd planned to do.
I am still puzzled as to how my funds have lost value in a market that has steadily risen 
since it fell at the beginning of the pandemic. I can only conclude that the pension funds 
were invested in the wrong financial sector, and that with knowledge that I was going into 
drawdown and wanted to take my tax-free sum, my funds should have been monitored more 
closely by Inspire after we discussed the possibility of my retiring last summer (which, 
incidentally, was your suggestion as I hadn't thought up to that point that retirement was an 
option) and the funds could have gone into some kind of smooth fund, still staying at medium 
risk but not so subject to the volatilities of the stock market.
Since I can't do anything about it, I'm resigned to working another year until the fund 
recovers; however, I do feel very let down by Inspire at this point.
Given the available evidence, I think its more likely than not it was Miss Ds decision not to 
take her benefits immediately after its advice in July 2021 and following further tentative 
agreements for her to do so in August 2021 and January 2022. I think she decided to wait for 
a hoped for increase in the value of her investments.
The risk exposure of Miss Ds portfolio
Miss D has raised a concern about how her funds were invested, she told this Service:
my portfolio was invested in certain high risk funds (see attached sheet) when they 
should have been medium risk. Had I known the risk factor of some of these funds I would 
never have agreed to my pension being invested in them. I do not believe that mixing high 
risk funds with lower risk funds equates to a medium-risk portfolio
This Service doesnt act as a regulator or arbiter of fund risk ratings. Our role is to consider 
whether an investment, or mix of investments, was suitable for a consumers circumstances 
and objectives.
Miss D doesnt dispute she had a balanced or medium attitude to risk. I can see that was the 
case as far back as 2006. Id also observe that since this time she will have experienced a 
number of periods of investment volatility, for example during the financial crisis in 2008, 
stock market uncertainty between June to December 2018 and in early 2020 with the Covid 
pandemic.
IWLs risk appetite assessment for Miss D conducted in June 2021 records her outlook in the 
following terms:
Q: I want my investment money to be safe even if it means lower returns.
A: Disagree.
Q: Imagine that six months after making an investment the financial markets start to perform 
badly. In line with this, your own investment goes down by 20%. What would your reaction 
be?
A: Monitor the investment and wait to see if it improves.
Q: How would a close friend describe your attitude to taking financial risks?
A: A thoughtful risk taker.
Q: If you had picked an investment with potential for large gains but also the risk of large 
losses how would you feel?
A: A little concerned.Q: I would go for the best possible return even if there was risk involved.
A: Sometimes.
Q: Imagine that you have some money to invest and a choice of two investment products, 
what annual average return and what annual risk of loss would you be prepared to accept?
A: 9% return and possible 10% loss.
Q: An investment that has the potential to make a lot of money will usually also have a 
greater risk of losing money. How much of the money that you have to invest would you be 
willing to place in an investment with potential high returns but with an equal element of risk?
A: Half.
Miss D was also asked to imagine shed invested £100,000 and was asked to select one of 
five scenarios that she would want for her investment portfolio. She selected scenario 3, 
where the best case might be a gain of £30,000, the most likely outcome was a gain of 
£8,200, with a worst case of a loss of £19,000.
In responding to my provisional decision Miss D said the only time she was asked these 
specific questions about her risk appetite was at the beginning of her relationship with IWL. It 
maybe that her initial discussions had been more detailed, but having reviewed the 
documentation from June 2021, which includes information clearly contemporaneous with 
that time, Im satisfied there was a discussion about risk. And she confirms that she agreed 
she had a medium risk appetite.
Miss D has raised concerns about one specific high risk fund she was invested in  the 
Baillie Gifford American B account. But I think also feels that her whole portfolio was 
overweighted to higher risk than shed been led to believe was right for her.
The portfolio Miss D was placed in was assessed by IWL as a medium risk product. Her 
SIPP contained 13 separate funds. These included two funds which might be classed as 
low/low-medium risk accounting for about 20% of her investments; one fund that was high 
risk accounting for about 9% of her investments; with the remainder at around 
medium/medium-high risk. About 78% of her funds were invested in equities (largely in the 
UK, US, Japan and the Eurozone) with the remainder in fixed interest and cash.
My observation would be that its not unusual for investment portfolios to contain a mix of 
funds in terms of risk exposure. The high risk fund Miss D was invested in accounted for a 
relatively small element of her pot. And this was offset to some extent by counteracting 
investments in lower risk areas.
I do think Miss Ds portfolio edged towards the upper-end of her appetite for risk. But for me 
to make a finding in her favour here Id need to see a pattern of investment that was 
obviously significantly out of kilter with her agreed assessed risk outlook and capacity for 
loss and thats not the case given the evidence Ive reviewed.
The alleged failure of IWL to manage her pension effectively in the run up to her retirement
Miss D is unhappy with how her pension was managed by IWL from November 2021. She 
said:
Inspire Wealth, knowing that I was going to retire and draw down in January 2022, and 
knowing that I needed the tax-free lump sum to put towards the purchase of a house, acted 
NEGLIGENTLY in not advising me to move my portfolio to low risk in order to better protect 
my funds from changes in the market.That Inspire Wealth, as a pensions advisor, singularly failed in their prime duty to provide 
me with a satisfactory pension fund at retirement, being well aware of my circumstances and 
my plans
Ive considered the information available which records IWLs interactions with Miss D. That 
includes documents from the summer of 2021 including the fact-find, cash-flow analysis, 
suitability report and other correspondence, Ive not seen anything that was obviously wrong 
or negligent in these.
Miss D wanted TFC from her pension to put towards a new home. But ultimately she 
decided not to take the cash after her Standard Life pension had been switched to her 
Fidelity SIPP as initially planned. I can understand why that was the case, the plans were 
couched in terms of a potential new home. And uncertainty in terms of timing of such 
transactions isnt unusual. IWL also says that during this period she wanted to keep her 
funds in her pension to benefit from any investment returns. 
As it materialised, Miss Ds investments lost significant value in the period between IWLs 
initial advice and when she approached it in January 2022 to take the benefits from her 
pension. As Ive concluded, ultimately that erosion of value led to her decision not to take her 
benefits.
In responding to my provisional decision Miss D said:
I put my trust in IWL to look after my pension fund, especially as I was paying an additional 
fee for the DFM. Had I been aware of the fall in the value of the fund during the period 
November 2021 to January 2022, I would have asked IWL to transfer my funds to low risk. I 
depended entirely on the advice of IWL as I had very limited knowledge of how my funds 
were invested, and assumed that by paying the DFM fee IWL would let me know whether 
there was a likelihood that certain high risk investments would be vulnerable to events 
happening in the world at the time and discuss possible options with me, particularly as they 
knew my plans to retire and take the TFC. I therefore did not have the opportunity to move to 
low risk at that time as I was completely unaware of the drop in the value of my fund.
The role of a discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement is to ensure that an 
investors funds are actively managed in the face of market conditions, in accordance with 
the mandate provided. That includes adhering to instructions about a clients risk appetite. 
So, to change its approach to the management of funds under its control, it would need to be 
informed about changing requirements.
Miss D says IWL knew about her circumstances and objectives and so it shouldve advised 
her to move her funds into a lower risk set of investments to protect her pension value. I 
think its important to avoid hindsight in these matters. It was never her intention to access all 
her pension benefits in one go, so I think its highly unlikely IWL wouldve advised her to do 
what she suggests.
The bulk of her funds were to provide her with a flow of benefits between when she retired 
and when she reached into her eighties. So, as long as that investment was in line with her 
attitude to risk, which shes confirmed a number of times was medium, that was appropriate. 
There is a stronger argument that IWL shouldve moved that element of Miss Ds funds she 
wanted to draw on in the next year or two, including her TFC into lower risk or near cash 
assets. The problem is, as we know, there was uncertainty about the timing of any house 
purchase and about when she would be giving up work. IWL also says she changed her 
mind about taking TFC immediately following its advice in July 2021, instead hoping to benefit from more growth in her funds. This is something Miss D confirmed in her response 
to my provisional decision.
To be clear, it was never IWLs duty to ensure Miss D had a satisfactory pension at 
retirement. There are many contributory factors in delivering such, including but not limited to 
the level of contributions she would make, the length of time she would work, the income 
requirements she had and the performance of the markets. IWLs responsibility was to 
ensure she had good advice about these matters.
The recorded advice from IWL in July 2021 and its subsequent correspondence with her in 
August 2021 and January 2022 is clear and consistent. And the pattern established is that 
Miss D didnt proceed in certain matters as it had advised.
The execution of Miss Ds instruction in May 2022 to move her funds into low risk 
investments and subsequently cash
Miss D has said she received and signed a Change of Risk letter on 9 May 2022 to allow her 
funds to be moved into low risk investments. She also notes that her funds were moved into 
cash on 18 June 2022. She has said:
I am not entirely sure that when I moved from medium risk to low risk some of these high 
risk funds were still included in my portfolio.
Even though I instructed Inspire Wealth to take my funds out of medium risk and move them 
to low risk funds in May this year, the fund continued to drop.
In her testimony Miss D suggests the move of her funds so they were less exposed to risk 
didnt happen as quickly or as effectively as shouldve been the case.
IWL has provided documentation from the time which show Miss D signed to move her funds 
into a low-risk portfolio on 9 May 2022. Fidelity received the sell instruction on 10 May 2022 
and by 17 May 2022 confirmed her funds were now in the new holdings.
On 15 June 2022 IWL sent Miss D a letter noting her wish to switch her funds into cash. It 
advised against this given market volatility. But it provided the necessary documents in case 
she wanted to proceed. On 17 June 2022, she sent it an email saying she wouldnt be 
signing to switch her funds given its strong advice not to. But on 19 June 2022 she decided 
to proceed to move her funds to cash and signed the authority for IWM to carry out her 
instruction. Fidelity received the sell instruction on 20 June 2022 and this was executed by 
23 June 2022.
Based on the available evidence, Ive not found that IWL was slow to act on her instructions 
in May and June 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman