DRN-3939840
The complaint
Ms D complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out sufficient affordability 
checks before it granted her loans which she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Ms D was advanced four home collected loans between August 2019 and January 2021. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £100.00 14/08/2019 28/11/2019 20 £7.50
2 £300.00 06/12/2019 02/07/2020 34 £15.00
3 £500.00 02/07/2020 29/01/2021 34 £25.00
4 £500.00 29/01/2021 23/09/2021 34 £25.00
Following Ms Ds complaint, Morses wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold it
because it carried out proportionate checks which showed the loans were affordable. Ms D,
then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable
decision to provide loans 1 - 3 and so she didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint about these loans.
But she thought loan 4 should be upheld because the lending had now become harmful for
her.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached, and Ive read and
considered everything it has provided. In summary, it said while the lending was at times
consecutive, there was no indication that the lending was now harmful for Ms D  the loans
were affordable and proportionate checks were carried out.
Ms D didnt respond to the assessment.
The case was then passed to me, and I issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons 
why, based on the information that I had to hand, I wasnt able to uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Both Ms D and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but no later than 2 February 2023. 
Morses emailed the Financial Ombudsman Service agreeing with the provisional findings. 
Ms D also confirmed she had received the provisional decision, but she still thought loan 4 
was unaffordable for her. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in a smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms D could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Ms Ds income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms D. These factors include:
Ms D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms D.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms D could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms D was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ds complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms D appear to disagree with the outcome the adjudicator reached
about loans 1 - 3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute and so I say no more
about them. But I have kept them in mind when thinking about the overall lending
relationship.
Loan 4
The adjudicator upheld the loan because in her view the lending was now harmful for
Ms D.
I accept, that Ms D had been indebted with Morses for around 19 months by the time this
loan was advanced  and she was further committing to be indebted for an additional 33
weeks and this was the third time a loan had been taken in a consecutive manner. This, in
some situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very
least was having longer term money management problems.However, the lending wasnt always increasing in value and there didnt appear to have been
any previous repayment problems in servicing loans 1 - 3. I accept this was Ms Ds second
loan of £500 which was larger than the earlier ones, but her commitments were no greater
than when loan 3 was advanced.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised this
loan was unsustainable for Ms D and so I am intending to conclude the loan wasnt likely to
be so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her. But that
doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done before advancing the loan, and that doesnt
mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in debt, the
consecutive nature of the borrowing and increased weekly commitments compared to loan 1
and 2 ought to have alerted Morses to the possibility that Ms D may have been having
money management problems.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms D declared to it
about her income (£510 per week) and expenditure (£232 per week) even though this
information suggested Ms D could afford the loan repayments of £25 a week. Instead, I think
it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Ds actual financial position to ensure the loan
was affordable and sustainable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Ds full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Ds financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Ms D couldnt afford it or was unsustainable in some other way.
Ms D hasnt provided a copy of her credit file, bank statements covering this period and neither has 
any other documentation been provided to show what her financial position was at the time. Without 
anything further, I cant be sure what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I 
cant fairly uphold the complaint about this loan.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that loan 4 shouldnt have been advanced.
So, Im intending to not uphold Ms Ds complaint about the loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been received, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I 
reached in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think Morses carried out a proportionate check before loan 4 was advanced, but I 
dont know what it may have seen as no new documentation has been provided by Ms D. 
Which means I cant conclude it made an incorrect lending decision. 
I therefore dont uphold her complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman