DRN-3200889
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly froze its bank account. 
M is being represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr K. 
What happened
Barclays froze Ms account in April 2021, after being notified that M would be dissolved. 
Before the dissolution took place, a new notice was issued to say that the dissolution had 
been discontinued. But Barclays went ahead and froze Ms account. After Mr K contacted 
Barclays about this, the bank lifted the account freeze. Ms account was frozen for around 
two weeks and Mr K complained to Barclays because of the impact this had.
Barclays agreed it had incorrectly frozen Ms account. The bank pointed out that it had failed 
to carry out the necessary due diligence before implementing the freeze. It also recognised 
that it couldve done more to lift the freeze sooner. Barclays offered M £850 compensation to 
put things right. Mr K also wanted Barclays to compensate for business losses and damage 
to Ms reputation. The bank didnt agree so Mr K asked this service to get involved.
One of our investigators pointed out the problems M experienced because of the banks 
error and asked the bank to add a further £400 compensation on top of what it had already 
offered. Barclays agreed but Mr K thinks it should pay more. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that an additional £400 compensation is a fair way to settle this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
At the point from which Barclays put the account freeze in place, a discontinuation of the 
dissolution had already been issued around two weeks before  so Barclays incorrectly put 
the account freeze in place. Barclays has already recognised its error and points to a lack of 
due diligence  the bank says it shouldve checked the Companies House register for any 
updates first. Had Barclays done so, it wouldve avoided causing the problems M 
experienced because of the account freeze. 
Barclays also recognises that it shouldve removed the account freeze sooner, as it took the 
bank around two weeks to lift the freeze after Mr K got in touch. I can see from Barclays 
notes that Mr K had to chase up the bank several times during this period. Barclays made an 
offer to settle the complaint, but, like our investigator, I dont think this offer was enough and 
Ill explain why. 
Mr K tells us that M experienced the following issues because of the account freeze Barclays 
incorrectly put in place:
M was unable to make payments that it had committed to  this includes a credit 
account that was frozen because of the missed payment.
M couldnt pay its staff on time and at least one staff member left because of this. 
Mr K says hes had to hire new staff.
Ms reputation was damaged with other companies it conducts business with  M has 
provided evidence to show credit arrangements with these companies were 
terminated because M couldnt pay a balance it owed.
Barclays initially pointed to its terms that say that it wasnt liable for the losses experienced 
by M. But my powers allow me to depart from the terms and conditions of Ms account in the 
interests of fairness. So I think its fair that Barclays increases it compensation for the 
inconvenience it caused. 
Mr K indicates he experienced stress because of what Barclays did wrong and spent a lot of 
time dealing with this issue. Mr K also says the stress led him to breaking his phone because 
he found it difficult to deal with the calls hed been receiving about balances he owed. 
However, as our investigator rightly pointed out, this service can only consider the impact to 
M. So I can only ask Barclays to compensate M for the inconvenience M experienced  not 
Mr K as Ms representative.
Mr K indicates that M is still experiencing problems even after the account freeze was lifted. 
He says the way M conducts business has had to change as the firms it works with wont 
allow M to set up a credit facility. Mr K also says that a credit account remained blocked 
some time after Barclays lifted the account freeze. Mr K points to further losses M has 
experienced and expects these losses to be covered.
Unfortunately, Mr M hasnt been able to provide evidence of further losses. And although I 
dont doubt that M may be experiencing continued problems  given its been over a year 
since Barclays lifted the account freeze, I cant fairly conclude that Barclays is responsible 
for ongoing issues. So I wont be asking the bank to pay compensation at the level Mr K 
wants it to.
Barclays agreed to the increased compensation figure recommended by our investigator and 
I think this is a fair way to settle the complaint. So, if M accepts this decision, Barclays can 
put things right in line with what Ill set out below.
Putting things right
Barclays unfairly froze Ms account, causing unnecessary inconvenience to M and damaging 
Ms reputation. To put things right, Barclays should pay M £400 compensation in addition to 
the £850 it has already offered - £1,250 in total. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should settle the complaint by paying M 
a total of £1,250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman