DRN-1708772
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. Mr S completed a postal 
application form for his credit card and the PPI policy was added at the same time. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr Ss case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form which Mr S completed and signed at the time. 
Theres a separate section on this about PPI. I can see that Mr S has ticked a Yes box in 
this section to confirm he wanted to take out this cover. Theres an equally prominent No 
box he could have ticked if he hadnt wanted it. 
So on the information available to me, I think that Mr S would have known he had a choice 
about buying the policy and actively decided to do so. 
I dont think Barclays recommended the policy to Mr S. So it didnt have to make sure it was 
suitable for him. But it did need to give him enough information for him to decide, himself, if 
he wanted to buy it. I think its likely that Barclays didnt provide all the information it should 
have done about the PPI he was buying. But from what I know of his circumstances at the 
time, I dont think better information would have changed his mind about buying it. I say this 
because:
Mr S appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy wasnt affordable for him. It would have given him 
useful protection for his card repayments if she couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Mr S says he would have been eligible for generous sick 
pay and a redundancy payment from his employer. But this policy could have 
protected his repayments for longer and would have been paid in addition to these other means. So I still think he would have valued the extra security the policy gave 
him.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr S. And as the premium 
was paid monthly, Mr S could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs. 
 
So I dont think Mr S would have been put off buying the policy if hed been given better 
information. And I dont think hes lost out by anything Barclays may have done wrong when 
it sold him this policy.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said in response to our adjudicators view, but this hasnt 
changed my mind about not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
It follows from what Ive said above, that Im not upholding this complaint against 
Barclays Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman