DRN-4112831
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the price charged by Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) to 
renew her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs N bought a new lifetime policy for her two cats in 2021, the price for which was £49.49 a 
month. Mrs N then received a renewal invite in 2022 which said her monthly premium was 
increasing to £90.91. Mrs N complained as she says she was of the understanding that the 
price of her lifetime policy wouldnt fluctuate. Great Lakes responded and explained 
veterinary costs are increasing which means they need to make sure premiums are fairly 
and correctly priced so theres enough money in their pot for when their customers need it. 
Great Lakes said one of Mrs Ns cats claims history caused a slight increase in the policy 
while the other cats claims history reduced the increase a little. They explained the main 
increase was caused by a rise in the risk factor associated with the specific breed of Mrs Ns 
cats as well as a general price increase which affected all customers. Great Lakes said the 
price quoted is correct, but they appreciate it came as a shock to Mrs N, so they offered 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill.         
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs N. He thought Great Lakes hadnt treated Mrs N 
unfairly in relation to the pricing and felt their offer of £100 was reasonable for the shock 
caused to Mrs N. Mrs N disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Great Lakes offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand  
Mrs N will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ive listened to Mrs Ns complaint call to Great Lakes. Mrs N complains her premium has 
doubled from the previous year but, when she first took out the policy, she was informed the 
number of claims made on the policy wouldnt affect the price. Mrs N explains one of her 
cats had some tests carried out but nothing else has changed yet the price has doubled. 
The call handler explains they use risk ratings so the price of premiums will change and its 
not just about a pets health. The call handler explains the main increase in price is down to 
claims inflation and vet fees in the area. The call handler then offers to look into any 
alternative covers and Mrs N explains her concern is that she signed up for a lifetime policy 
for a specified price but that has now almost doubled. 
I note Mrs N feels its unfair for Great Lakes to increase the price when she has agreed to 
take out a lifetime policy for a fixed price. I think its important to firstly clarify how a lifetime 
policy works. With these policies, a pet will be covered for any conditions they develop for 
the rest of their lives  as long as the policy continues. The pet is usually covered up to a set 
amount each year, until the policy limit is reached and when the policy renews, the full limit 
becomes available again. However, these policies would still be subject to increases in 
premium based on the various risk ratings used by insurers. I note Mrs N says, when she 
took out the policy, she was informed the premium wouldnt change. I do understand Mrs Ns 
frustration here, but I havent seen any information which suggests this information was 
given by Great Lakes.     
       
Turning now to the specific factors which have contributed to the increase in price. Great 
Lakes have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how   
Mrs Ns price was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with her because its commercially 
sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. Great Lakes have provided a breakdown of the policy 
price and I can see a significant factor which has led to the price increase is a general price 
increase across all similar policy types which has affected all customers. The specific breed 
of Mrs Ns cats has also had a significant impact on the price as well as their location. So, 
from the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the price Mrs N was quoted has been calculated 
correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other Great Lakes customers in Mrs Ns 
position will have been charged a lower premium.  
Great Lakes confirm they made the decision to include personal claims history in July 2022  
so this first affected Mrs Ns 2022 renewal. Mrs N may feel this is unfair, but Great Lakes, 
like all insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in 
changes to the premium. They have explained this was a change across all their policies as 
they changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the 
change and Mrs N hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their 
approach to factor in personal claims history. Insurers regularly monitor the market and 
change their approach in response to internal and external factors. In this case, this change 
was brought about following, what Great Lakes describe as, an extreme volume of 
feedback from their customers who felt the omission of a personal claims history rating factor 
was unfair. So I cant say Great Lakes have acted unfairly here in changing their approach  
a change which applied equally to all their customers. I think its also important to note that, 
while the personal claims history was a factor affecting the 2022 renewal price, it was to a 
lesser extent when compared to the risk factors Ive mentioned above.  
Its clear Mrs N was of the understanding her lifetime policy price would be fixed. As 
mentioned above, I havent seen any evidence that Great Lakes informed Mrs N this was the 
case when she took out her policy. But Ive looked at the information Mrs N was given when 
she bought the policy, to see how clearly the long-term costs of the policy were explained. 
And from what Ive seen, I dont think it was as clear as it shouldve been. Mrs N shouldve 
been given clear, fair, and not misleading information so she could make an informed choice 
about the insurance she was buying. And I think, particularly for insurance thats marketed 
as lifetime cover, information about the long-term costs of the policy, wouldve been 
important to Mrs N and shouldve been highlighted. When Mrs N first bought the policy, I 
accept Great Lakes wont have been in a position to tell Mrs N what her future premiums will 
be  as they wont have known this information. But they will have known about a number of 
things which wouldve helped Mrs N to make an informed choice about the insurance. 
I can see Great Lakes acknowledge the new premium came as a shock to Mrs N, so theyve 
offered £100 compensation  and I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
say this because, although Mrs N did make a claim for one of her cats  she explains this 
was down to a specific cause which resolved after treatment and her cat hasnt been ill 
since. Mrs N hasnt made any claims for her other cat. 
Ive also taken into account that this was Mrs Ns first renewal. So, I think the impact of 
potentially having to shop around for a new policy is limited  and I think the £100 offered by 
Great Lakes is fair and reasonable.  
 
I acknowledge Mrs N will be disappointed by my decision. I do understand why shes 
concerned  she took out a lifetime policy on the basis the price would be fixed. Mrs N says 
an insurance representative told her vet the price wouldnt change. As mentioned above, I havent seen any evidence that Great Lakes, as the insurer, gave this information to Mrs N 
or her vet. I acknowledge Mrs Ns pet insurance premium has increased significantly but, for 
the reasons Ive mentioned, its not unreasonable for Great Lakes to change their risk ratings 
and loadings. And I think its important to add, this is a change across all their policies where 
the circumstances are similar.  
I wish to reassure Mrs N Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
Great Lakes Insurance SE have already made an offer to pay £100 compensation to settle 
the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay £100 to Mrs N, if they havent 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman