DRN-2981226
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Luma and their decision to
approve two credit card applications which she feels were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs G applied for her first credit card account with Capital One in September 2014. Capital
one approved this application and provided Mrs G with a credit limit of £500.
Two months later, Mrs G applied for another credit account. The application was approved
again, and Mrs G was provided with a credit limit of £1,500. Mrs G managed to maintain her
payments to both cards for some time, until late 2018/early 2019 where both cards entered
into long term default arrangements. And following this, both accounts were defaulted. Mrs G
was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs G felt Capital One had provided both credit cards to her irresponsibly. She thought it
shouldve been obvious to Capital One that she was in financial difficulty at the time she
applied for the accounts, and that the credit cards were unaffordable. She thought taking out
the cards had placed her in greater financial difficulty, as shed had to take other credit to
maintain her payments. So, she wanted Capital One to refund her the interest and charges
the accounts had accrued and the negative markers on her credit file to be removed.
Capital One didnt agree. They thought theyd make proportionate checks when deciding
whether to approve the applications. And they didnt think these checks provided any
information to show the credit cards were unaffordable. They also referred to Mrs Gs ability
to pay the accounts off in full by 2017 as a reflection of the cards being affordable. So, they
didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mrs G remained unhappy with this, so she referred her complaint to us. Mrs G has appointed
a representative to handle her complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to both Mrs G
and her representative as Mrs G throughout.
Our investigator looked into the account and didnt uphold it. She thought Capital One had
completed proportionate checks when approving both applications. And she didnt think the
information these checks provided showed that the credit cards would be unaffordable. So, 
she didnt think she could say Capital One had acted unfairly when approving them. And
because of this, she thought Capital One were fair to add interest and charges in line with
the credit agreement and attempt to collect the outstanding debit. So, she didnt think they
needed to do anything more.
Mrs G didnt agree. She thought the information on her credit file shouldve shown the credit
cards werent affordable. In particular, shed been in a debt management plan (DMP) since
2007 and had a mortgage with a sub-prime lender, which shed been unable to meet the
monthly payments in the time before applying for credit. So, she didnt agree that Capital had
acted fairly or irresponsibly. 
I issued a provision decision on 20 July 2021, where I explained my intention to uphold the 
complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, its my intention to 
partially uphold the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think 
is the right outcome.
When deciding whether Capital One have approved Mrs Gs credit applications fairly, I need
to ensure the approval meets two tests. First, that the checks they completed were
proportionate to the credit limit they were providing. And secondly, that they assessed the
information these checks provided fairly, which allowed them to make a reasonable decision
on affordability.
Mrs G applied for her first credit card with Capital One on 9 September 2014. She told
Capital One she was employed full time, and a homeowner, with an annual wage of £22,000
plus £800 through a pension she had. Capital One consider this information alongside the
information provided on her credit file, before providing a credit limit of £500. The credit limit
Capital One offered Mrs G was relatively small compared to the annual income she declared
and so, I think the checks they completed for this application were proportionate to the limit
she provided.
Ive then thought about whether the information these checks provided showed Capital One
the credit card was unaffordable and that Mrs G would be unable to afford the minimum
monthly repayments. This credit file showed that Mrs G had £155 of outstanding credit
before Capital One approved the loan. This was alongside Mrs Gs mortgage, which I
appreciate was with a sub-prime lender.
But there were no negative payment markers on Mrs Gs credit file to show she was
struggling to meet the monthly repayments for any of the credit she had outstanding,
including the mortgage. And I dont think it would be fair for Capital One to automatically
decline the application based on the lender who provided her mortgage. So, from what Ive
seen, I dont think there was any information that shouldve led Capital One to think the
credit card and its limit was unaffordable.
I appreciate Mrs G has provided information to show she was in a DMP from 2007. But I
cant see any evidence this was listed on the credit file Capital One saw when they approved
the credit. And I cant see Mrs G declared this in her application. I recognise Capital One
didnt specifically ask Mrs G if she had a DMP, but I wouldve expected Mrs G to provide this
information if she felt it would impact the affordability of her application. And I cant see that 
she did. So, I dont think Capital One acted unfairly or irresponsibly when approving the first
application and I dont think they need to do anything more in relation to that account.
Ive then applied the same two tests to the second application Mrs G made on 20 November
2014. Mrs G provided the same income and residential information and Capital One
assessed this against the information on Mrs Gs credit file. And on this occasion, Capital
One provided Mrs G with a credit limit of £1,500. I think this was a significant increase from
the credit limit provided just two months prior, and Ive thought about what information
Capital One saw to reach the decision to approve the application for this limit.
Capital One say Mrs G overpaid on the first account she held, which I can see she did. So,
this is why they felt they could approve a higher limit. But this only represented one month of
Mrs G managing her account, and I dont think it was representative of the way shed be able
to manage the account long term. So, I dont think this information was enough for Capital
One to approve a new application with a credit limit three times higher than the limit they
approved two months earlier, with Mrs Gs income and residential status remaining the
same.Ive also looked at the credit file Capital One wouldve seen when they approved the second
application. This showed that Mrs Gs outstanding credit had risen to £1,149, from £155 two
months earlier. And Mrs G had also opened another credit card account shortly after her first
credit card with Capital One had been opened, as well as opening another mail order
account. The credit file showed that Mrs G had opened four credit card accounts from July 
November 2014, with the credit limits totalling £3600. I think this information shouldve
suggested that Mrs G was struggling financially, due to her need for such increased amounts
of credit in a short period of time. So, at this point, I would expect Capital One to make
further checks to ensure the credit card was affordable. In particular, I wouldve expected
Capital One to have asked Mrs G to provide bank statements of the previous months and
complete an income and expenditure form to ensure shed be able to meet the minimum
monthly repayments for the credit card. But I cant see that they did.
So, for this application, I dont think I can fairly say the checks Capital One made were
proportionate, or that they assessed the information they held fairly. So, Ive then thought
about what I think Capital One should do to address this.
Any direction I make is intended to place Mrs G back in the situation she wouldve been, had
Capital One acted fairly. And in this situation, if Capital One had completed further checks
after assessing her credit file fairly, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mrs Gs credit
application wouldve been declined.
This is because around the time, Ive seen evidence to show Mrs G had missed full
payments on her mortgage. And I think its likely her bank statements wouldve reflected her
need to obtain credit. I do appreciate Mrs G managed to maintain payments to both her
cards for some time, but shes explained she managed this by taking additional credit, which
has led her into the financial situation she now finds herself. And ultimately, she needed to
enter into a long-term default arrangement with Capital One, which satisfies me she was led
into financial difficulty.
But I cant place Mrs G back in a better position than she wouldve been. And Im aware
shes had the financial benefit of the credit card account and the funds that were available.
But if the credit card application hadnt been approved, then Mrs G wouldnt have incurred
the interest and charges on the account. So, I intend to direct Capital One to refund these to
Mrs G. And if this clears Mrs Gs outstanding balance, I intend to direct Capital One to pay
Mrs G the remaining amount plus 8% statutory interest. And if the application hadnt been 
approved, it wouldnt have been reported to Mrs Gs credit file. So, I intend to direct Capital
One to remove the second credit card account from Mrs Gs credit file.
Responses
Capital One responded to my provisional decision, saying they had no further comments to 
add. And Mrs G didnt respond to my provisional decision within the time frame provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I seen no reason to change my initial decision. Neither Capital One or Mrs 
G have provided me with any further comments or information that would impact my original 
conclusions. So, I think Capital One acted fairly when approving the first credit card 
application. But I think they acted irresponsibly when approving Mrs Gs second credit card 
application.Putting things right
As explained in my provisional decision, any award or direction I make is intended to place 
Mrs G back in the position she wouldve been had Capital One acted fairly. And in this 
situation, if theyd acted fairly I think they would have declined the second application.
But Ive also had to take into account Mrs G has had the benefit of the loan, and the money 
that was provided to her. And I think Mrs G should repay this to Capital One.
So, I think if the credit card application hadnt been approved, then Mrs G wouldnt have 
incurred the interest and charges on the account. So, Capital One should refund these to
Mrs G. And if this clears Mrs Gs outstanding balance, Capital On should pay Mrs G the 
remaining amount plus 8% statutory interest. And if the application hadnt been approved, it 
wouldnt have been reported to Mrs Gs credit file. So, Capital One should remove the 
second credit card account from Mrs Gs credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc 
trading as Luma and direct them to take the following action:
Refund Mrs G any interest and charges incurred on her second credit card account;
If this clears Mrs Gs outstanding balance, refund Mrs G any remaining amount plus 
8% statutory interest;
If Mrs G is left with an outstanding balance, Capital One should work with Mrs G to 
arrange an affordable and suitable repayment plan; and
Remove the second credit card account from Mrs Gs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman