DRN-2830768
The complaint
Mrs M complains Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent to her as she says it didnt complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks when approving her for a loan.
What happened
In November 2016 Bamboo approved Mrs M for a guarantor loan. The loan was for £2,000 
over a term of 36 months with a monthly repayment of around £97 and a total repayable 
value of around £3,500.  
Mrs M complained to Bamboo in October 2020. She said it had irresponsibly provided her 
with the loan; as had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks Mrs M says it would 
have known the loan was unaffordable for her. 
Bamboo didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint but did make an offer of £250 as a gesture of 
goodwill with no admission of liability. Mrs M appears to have rejected this offer and brought 
her complaint to our service for review. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ms complaint. He said Bamboo hadnt completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks before approving the loan. He went on to say that had it completed 
further checks it ought to have identified the loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mrs M, 
and that therefore it didnt make a fair lending decision when approving the loan. 
Mrs M accepted our investigators outcome. Bamboo disagreed. In summary, it said:
Mrs M maintained her loan payments well and the loan was repaid on time;
It was entitled to rely on Office for National Statistics (ONS) figures when assessing    
Mrs Ms expenditure;
The credit file check it completed showed no adverse information including no 
defaults or county court judgements that would have raised concerns; and
Mrs Ms guarantor was her husband and it took account of the full household income.
Bamboo maintains its argument that it made a fair lending decision when approving the loan 
for Mrs M and asked for an ombudsmans review. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ms complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mrs Ms complaint. 
These are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs M to satisfy itself 
she was in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Mrs M would have been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to answer these questions in turn.
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs M to satisfy itself she 
was in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mrs M. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Bamboo lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mrs Ms ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Bamboo to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision.
Bamboo has said it obtained Mrs Ms declaration of her income and verified this against an 
income verification tool. It has said it used ONS figures to calculate Mrs Ms monthly 
expenses and also completed a credit file check. It has said it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks and based on the information it obtained it made a fair lending 
decision. 
Ive carefully considered Bamboos argument; but Im not persuaded it did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan. I say this because there 
were a number of indicators which ought to have led to it completing further checks. 
Mrs M told Bamboo her income was solely made up of benefits and tax credits. So, Bamboo 
was aware Mrs Ms income was unlikely to significantly increase over the term of the loan. 
And I dont consider using ONS figures to obtain the average persons expenses was 
sufficient in Mrs Ms circumstances  because I dont consider Mrs Ms circumstances were 
representative of the average person. 
The credit file check Bamboo completed shows Mrs M had two credit cards and two mail 
order accounts, all of which were being utilised to their limits  and had been in the four 
months leading up to this loan. One of the mail order account limits had been increased 
twice over the previous eight-month period and Mrs M had quite quickly utilised this 
additional credit. And the other mail order account had a limit increase followed by a limit 
decrease within the previous eight months, which I consider places doubt with the initial 
increase in credit that had been provided. 
It also appears Mrs M had been approved with an overdraft limit of £400 the month before 
this loan. So, its clear Mrs Ms total available credit had been increasing across a relatively short period before this loan was approved  and the credit check Bamboo completed 
showed she was largely utilising all of the credit available to her. 
I can see from Mrs Ms recent credit file that this loan wasnt used to consolidate any existing 
credit. So, I think its more likely Bamboo knew this loan was further increasing Mrs Ms 
indebtedness. 
I consider Mrs Ms circumstances together with the recent increases in her available credit 
and the high utilisation ought reasonably to have led to Bamboo completing further checks; 
by verifying Mrs Ms income and her actual expenses to ensure this loan would be 
sustainably affordable for her. And that by relying on ONS figures in this instance was not 
proportionate considering the information stated above. 
Would further checks have shown Mrs M would have been able to meet any repayments 
towards loan two sustainably?
As I consider Bamboo needed to complete further checks to fully understand Mrs Ms 
financial circumstances at the time of the lending, Ive gone on to consider what it ought 
reasonably to have identified. 
Mrs M has provided our service with her bank statements covering the months leading up to 
this loan. Ive reviewed these statements to get an understanding of what Bamboo would 
likely have seen had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks.  
Mrs Ms bank statements show Mrs M was not managing her money well. Her income 
appears to be solely from benefits as Mrs M had declared during the application process. 
This averages out at around £1,500 across the three months leading up to this loan. And her 
balance fluctuates across the months as she receives benefits; with her balance nearing 
zero on multiple occasions. The credit file check Bamboo completed shows Mrs M had a 
£400 overdraft facility on a current account approved in October 2016. And her statements 
show she had started to use this facility throughout the month of October 2016. Bamboo has 
made reference in its response to our investigators assessment that Mrs M hadnt used the 
overdraft facility in the eight months leading up to this loan. But from its own credit check it 
would have been aware the overdraft facility had only been agreed the month before this 
loan so there was no history to report. Taking this into account, as well as the increases to 
her existing credit limits and utilisation, I consider it suggests Mrs M was becoming 
increasingly reliant on credit to meet her monthly commitments and expenditure. 
Most significantly Mrs Ms statements show numerous transactions each month to an online 
gambling site. While in isolation the amounts of around £240, £250 and £350 across August, 
September and October 2016 may not seem overly excessive, I think its important to note 
Mrs M wasnt making these transactions a couple of times across each month  but was 
making small payments on an almost daily basis. 
Across October 2016 Mrs M made 28 separate transactions to a gambling site with a 
number of these payments being made multiple times a day. Across the three months there 
are as many as five transactions in one day; and numerous days where other multiple 
transactions were made. I consider this pattern of gambling ought to have been concerning 
to Bamboo. 
Bamboo had calculated Mrs M would be left with around £260 per month before taking into 
account the payment towards this loan. I accept that Mrs Ms verified income is higher than 
that which Bamboo appears to have used as part of its affordability checks; but taking into 
account the highest level of gambling across the previous three months Mrs M was still not 
left with what I would consider to be a reasonable level of disposable income each month, especially taking into account that Bamboo knew she was a homeowner and had two 
dependents so would likely incur unexpected additional costs at times.
Bamboo as made reference to taking into account the full household income and 
expenditure as part of its checks  because Mrs Ms husband was her guarantor. While I 
acknowledge this approach, the evidence Ive seen from Bamboo appears to solely detail 
Mrs Ms income and expenditure. And Bamboo had an obligation to ensure the loan was 
sustainably affordable to Mrs M as the borrower, rather than relying on the guarantor to meet 
the payments. So, I dont accept Bamboos argument here.
Taking all the above into account, I consider reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have led to Bamboo identifying this loan wouldnt have been sustainably affordable to Mrs M 
and it ought to have concluded she wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to. 
As such, I dont consider Bamboo made a fair lending decision when approving this loan.
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen anything to suggest Bamboo has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other 
way in its dealings with Mrs M.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs M to repay the principal amount she borrowed 
because shes had the benefit of that lending. But Mrs M has paid interest on a loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to her. So, Bamboo Limited should: 
Refund all interest, fees and charges from the loan with 8% per annum simple 
interest from the date they arose to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to the 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Bamboo Limited must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint about Bamboo Limited and 
direct it to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman