DRN-4521893
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has declined to cover the full cost of a 
claim made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr R has a motor insurance policy which is underwritten by Admiral. He made a 
claim on his policy when his cars windscreen was damaged. 
Admirals authorised repairer - who Ill refer to as T - attempted a repair, but it was 
unsuccessful, and so, T said the entire windscreen needed replacing. Mr R says T 
told him it was unable to provide a manufacturer windscreen. 
Mr R says during this time hed been in touch with the manufacturer of his car  who 
Ill refer to as P. He says P told him T didnt have the capability to either install 
windscreens on their vehicles or calibrate the camera. Adding it often had to redo 
work carried out by T. 
Mr R subsequently arranged for P to replace the glass but says this was on the basis 
that T had told him it couldnt complete replacing the windscreen.
Admiral subsequently declined the claim saying T hadnt told Mr R it couldnt replace 
the windscreen. And as Mr R hadnt used its authorised repairer to complete the 
replacement  it would only pay £50 towards the cost  which it said was in line with 
the policy terms.
Unhappy with Admirals decision to not cover the full cost of Ps invoice, Mr R 
brought a complaint to this Service, saying he had no choice but to have P install the 
windscreen. 
An Investigator considered it but didnt uphold the complaint. Because Mr R 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  Ill explain why. The 
starting point is the policy document which under Cover for your windscreen says:
If there has not been any other loss or damage, we will pay to:
Repair or replace broken glass in your vehicles windscreen, windows or 
sunroof []
If we need to replace any glass, we may use glass which is not provided by the 
vehicles manufacturer but is of a similar standard and quality. If there is no glass 
available and it cannot be reasonably sourced, we will pay the cost shown in the 
manufacturers latest price guide, together with reasonable fitting costs.
So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear Admiral isnt required to use the vehicles 
manufacturers glass - so long as the glass it does use is of a similar standard and quality. 
But if such glass isnt available, itll pay the cost shown in the manufacturers price guide 
along with fitting costs. 
Here, the issue is whether Admiral could source a replacement windscreen and fit it  it said 
it could, Mr R said it told him it couldnt. So, Ive looked at the claims notes to see what most 
likely happened. 
The notes show that on the same day Mr R initially contacted T about the replacement glass, 
he cancelled an appointment with T saying hed made alternative arrangements. Theres 
nothing to suggest this was in response to T saying it couldnt source and fit the windscreen. 
Whilst I understand Mr R strongly refutes this but based on the evidence I have Im more 
persuaded T could have replaced the windscreen  as it has confirmed it could have - but 
that Mr R chose to have it replaced by P at his own volition. 
Where a policyholder makes their own arrangements, the policy states Admiral is only 
required to pay £50 towards the cost of each glass replacement. Admiral has offered to 
settle the claim on this basis  but as I understand it, hasnt yet paid this to Mr R. So, itll 
need to do this.
When I consider the above, Im satisfied Admirals decision to decline paying the full cost of 
Mr Rs invoice is both in line with the policy terms and fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
Admiral has already offered to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Admiral should pay Mr R £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman