DRN-3714017
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain through their professional representative, (PR), that Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance (Mitsubishi) didnt fairly or reasonably 
deal with their claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product in July 2014.
What happened
In July 2014 Mr and Mrs P purchased a holiday product from a company I will call D at a cost 
of £11,553. This was funded in full by loan with Mitsubishi. In February PR submitted a letter 
of claim to Mitsubishi under s.75 CCA and s.140 CAA. It said that:
 They were told the contract had a guaranteed end date.
 They were told they were buying an interest in a specific parcel of real property.
 It was sold as an investment.
 The were pressured into purchasing the product.
 They were told the membership would only be available for a limited time in order to elicit 
an immediate decision.
 They believed they could not leave until they agreed to the purchase.
 They were not provided with the key information that was material to understanding the 
product.
 The ongoing payments they agreed to make as part of the membership were unclear.
Mitsubishi rejected the claim. It said the claim under s.75 had been made too late and there 
was no evidence that the product had been sold as a financial investment.
PR brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr and Mrs P. It said Mitsubishi had 
failed to carry out a proper assessment of the ability to afford the loan and had paid 
commission to D. Finally, it said that the pressure exerted during the sales process rendered 
the relationship unfair under s.140A.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the s.75 claim had 
been made out of time and there was insufficient evidence to show that there was an unfair 
relationship. He also thought there were no grounds to conclude the loan had been 
unaffordable.
PR didnt agree and submitted a generic counsels opinion. Subsequently it wrote to express 
concern about the way finance was sold to its clients including Mr and Mrs P and suggested 
we obtain further information from Mitsubishi.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why. 
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr and Mrs P) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (Mitsubishi) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as Mitsubishi was the lender rather than the supplier, under the 
Act a claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
However, under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs P into the 
contract were made in July 2014, but no claim was made until February 2022, more than six 
years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for 
misrepresentation against D would be outside the relevant time limit in the Limitation Act.
In the circumstances, I think that Mitsubishis response was reasonable.
S.140 A
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr and Mrs P and 
Mitsubishi were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to 
consider it if it applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs P could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against Mitsubishi anyway.
Their alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to them personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Mitsubishi assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
PR seems to suggest that Mitsubishi owed Mr and Mrs P a duty of care to ensure that D 
complied with the 2010 Regulations. And PR says that Mitsubishi breached that duty by 
failing to carry out  before granting Mr and Mrs P credit and paying D  the due diligence 
necessary to ensure that the product purchased by Mr and Mrs P wasnt sold by D in breach 
of the 2010 Regulations. It also suggests that Ds representative told them the product was 
an investment and subjected them to pressure. But I have seen no evidence of that. There is 
no testimony on these matters and PR has put forward generalised claims. 
The documentary evidence does not support the claims, for example it states that: You 
should not think of Your points as an investment.. As for the issue of commission Mitsubishi 
has not denied that commission was paid. In my experience of this industry the sums paid 
were not such that they could be said to have led to an unfair relationship. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P are dissatisfied with their purchase and they have my sympathies 
for this, but, in summary I cannot see why any of their claims were likely to have succeeded. 
So overall I think that Mitsubishi acted reasonably in declining the claims under s.75 and s. 
140A CCA.
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. 
Our investigator said that he could not see any evidence that Mr and Mrs P found the loan 
unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if Mitsubishi did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), 
for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr and 
Mrs P lost out as a result of its failings. Following the issue of our investigators view PR has 
made generic points about affordability, but has not provided evidence that they would have 
found, or did find, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman