DRN-2433918
The complaint
Mrs O  the owner/director of a limited company (B)  complains that DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have unfairly declined its claim for legal expenses.
What happened
B holds a business insurance policy with Hiscox that includes legal protection cover 
(underwritten by DAS), which it took out in October 2018. B provides advertising and 
telecommunications services such as sourcing and driving customers through its premium 
number systems in order to produce revenues via Google AdWords for its clients.  
B entered into a contract with a third-party company (the third party) in July 2018, where it 
agreed to generate revenue for the third party. According to the contract, B would produce 
over £75,000 per month through its premium number lines. However, Google had to disrupt 
the third partys adverts several times which eventually resulted in its account being 
suspended for unacceptable business practices.
The third party subsequently brought legal action against B in January 2020 for breach of 
contract (for failing to deliver on its monthly revenue promises); misrepresentation (for 
guaranteeing such minimum monthly revenues in pre-contractual discussions); and 
negligence (for failing to understand Googles advertising policies which resulted in the third 
partys Google account being suspended). The third party said it was suing B for around 
£5million in damages, so B initially made a claim under its policy with Hiscox for professional 
indemnity cover, which was declined by the insurer on the basis that the dispute with the 
third party pre-dated the policy. B subsequently made a claim under the legal protection 
section of the policy with DAS on 13 January 2020 for legal defence costs. 
DAS initially accepted the claim and, given that legal proceedings were imminent, they 
allowed B freedom of choice over which solicitors to instruct. Attempts were made by the 
insurer to instruct Bs choice of solicitor, but this proved unsuccessful, so alternative panel 
firms were suggested. The claim was eventually passed to one of DASs panel firms 
(Firm I) but it subsequently identified that the alleged breach of contract originally occurred 
between July and September 2018, which was prior to the policys inception. This was 
brought to light by another firm of solicitors (Firm D) who had assessed the professional 
indemnity claim for Hiscox and declined it on the same basis.
After considering Firm Ds legal assessment, DAS said they would not be able to cover Bs 
claim for legal expenses and decided to withdraw any further funding on 25 February 2020. 
However, the insurer acknowledged that their handling of the claim had led to issues and 
delays in getting a solicitor appointed, during which time B said it had incurred legal costs of 
around £2,900. As a gesture of goodwill, DAS agreed to reimburse the legal fees upon 
submission of reasonable proof of such costs being incurred. B later submitted an invoice for 
£6,795 in March 2020. However, DAS had concerns regarding the increased costs being 
claimed, as well as the validity of the invoice itself, because they could not contact the 
solicitors firm on the contact details provided, nor could they find any trace of them online. 
So, the insurer said it wouldnt reimburse the legal costs in these circumstances. 
B complained that DAS had handled and declined its claim unfairly. It said that the insurer 
had failed to understand the nature of its business and how Google AdWords worked, and 
argued that its dispute with the third party did not occur before the policy was taken out in 
October 2018. B also said that it had since provided updated contact information and 
credentials for the solicitor they had paid, but still hadnt had its legal fees refunded. As a 
result, it said it wanted DAS to reinstate cover for its claim (reappointing Firm I to take it 
forwards), reimburse its legal consulting costs and also pay compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by their conduct.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that DAS had declined the 
claim fairly in light of the legal advice that stated the dispute with the third party originated 
before the policy was taken out. He also didnt think the insurer had acted unfairly in failing to 
reimburse Bs legal costs, as they were unable to independently verify the solicitors that had 
completed this work. B disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Was the claim declined unfairly?
B has provided this service with a substantial amount of information and submissions 
regarding both its complaint about DAS, as well as the merits of its underlying legal dispute 
with the third party. And while I have considered everything it has said about the insurers 
handling of the claim and decision to eventually decline it, it is not within the remit of this 
service to say whether the third partys legal claim against B has any merit. But Id like to 
assure B that I have carefully considered all the evidence and submissions it has put 
forwards which, for the sake of brevity, I will not list again here. 
The policy terms and conditions state that DAS will cover legal expenses for contractual 
disputes so long as:
The date of occurrence of the insured incident happens during the period of 
insurance. 
The date of occurrence is further defined by the policy as:
For civil cases, the date of occurrence is the date of the event that leads to a claim. 
If there is more than one event arising at different times from the same originating 
cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first of these events. (This is the date 
the event happened, which may be before the date the policyholder or an insured 
person first became aware of it).
DAS have relied on a legal assessment produced by Firm D, the panel solicitors instructed 
by Hiscox to review Bs professional indemnity claim. I appreciate that this assessment 
wasnt directly instructed by DAS for the legal expenses claim, but given that DAS and 
Hiscox are both co-insurers of Bs business insurance policy  and given that the 
circumstances of both the professional indemnity and legal expenses insurance claims are 
the same (i.e. concerning the defence of the legal action being brought by the third party)  I 
dont think it was unreasonable for DAS to rely on Firm Ds assessment for the legal 
expenses claim, rather than instructing an additional assessment from Firm I. The legal 
assessment contained information and advice that was directly relevant to the legal expenses claim with DAS, such as the date the dispute with the third party is said to have 
occurred. And given that this had been shared with DAS, I dont think theyve acted unfairly 
by taking it into account for the purposes of Bs claim.
In their legal assessment, Firm D said that Bs dispute with the third party occurred before 
the policy was taken out with DAS/Hiscox due to the following reasons:
(a) [Bs] own Google Account had been suspended in February 2018 in connection with 
promoting the same business opportunity subsequently pursued by [the third party]. 
There was therefore a strong possibility if not inevitability that the same 
advertisements progressed via [the third partys] account would also be disallowed 
before the contract with [the third party] was entered into.
(b) Advertisements on [the third partys] account started to be disapproved almost 
immediately. [B] was aware that [the third party] were incurring losses as a result of 
Googles approach and confirmed this in an email to Google dated 
4 September 2018.
(c) [B] was aware that the expected monthly revenues under the Contact [sic] were not 
being met. The returns for July/August and September 2018 were far below the 
guaranteed contractual figures (being between £3,000 - £12,000 as opposed to the 
expected £150,000 per month confirmed in [the third partys] Letter of Claim.
(d) As at September 2018, and before the policy was taken out, the total contractual 
losses stood at £428,500. [B] knew or alternatively reasonably ought to have known 
that it was in breach of the contract with [the third party] and that losses had already 
been caused.
I note that B has made various submissions concerning the quality of legal advice provided 
by Firm D. However, DAS is the legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably qualified 
expert dealing with the legal case. As such, our role is to assess the insurers handling of the 
claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations 
reasonably and dealt with the claim fairly. Our service is not able to consider the actions of 
solicitors or the quality of the legal advice they have provided. And generally, we consider it 
is fair for an insurer to rely on the advice of appropriately qualified legal professionals, unless 
there is any obvious reason to suggest that the legal advice provided was patently wrong, 
such that it was unreasonable for the insurer to rely on it. 
B submit that Firm Ds legal advice is patently wrong. B doesnt consider that any element of 
its dispute with Firm D occurred prior to the policy inception date in October 2018. To that 
end, it has provided over 140 pages of responses as to why it considers Firm Ds advice to 
be incorrect, which it says was compiled by its legal consultant. However, there does not 
appear to be any details of a legal consultant on this report, or anything to suggest what their 
position is (i.e. solicitor/paralegal etc). It is not on headed paper, for example, and there is 
not even a name/signature at the end of the report to be able to determine its author. So 
theres no way of verifying the credentials of the legal consultant that put it together to 
determine whether Bs report should carry more weight than the advice provided by Firm D. 
B say that their legal consultant is a solicitor. It has provided a picture of a certificate for an 
individual dated from 1997, but I note that DAS have been unable to find any record of this 
individual as being a practising solicitor. Even if he were a solicitor, Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence to suggest that the report has been produced by an independent and 
comparably qualified solicitor to that of Firm D. So Im not persuaded that any greater weight 
should be placed upon it than the advice given by Firm D, or that it would warrant DAS 
having to seek a further opinion from a barrister. So I dont consider Bs report is enough to conclude that the legal advice was patently wrong, or that it was unreasonable for DAS to 
rely on it. 
I appreciate that B does not consider there to have been a breach of contract from failing to 
deliver on monthly revenue targets, because it says there would only be a breach if the two-
year revenue target of £3.6million had not been achieved. But this issue goes to the heart of 
the merits of Bs defence against the legal proceedings being pursued by the third party, and 
will ultimately be for the court to decide. Whats important here is the fact that the third party 
alleges there to have been a breach of contract from July 2018 onwards, as it says in its 
letter of claim that B failed to deliver expected revenues of £150,000 per month. Whether 
there is any merit to these allegations  or whether it was reasonable for the third party to 
expect minimum monthly revenues  is a matter for the legal proceedings/court. But in any 
event, the third party claims that its cause of action accrued from July 2018 onwards when 
the revenue was not achieved, which was before the policy was in place.
Similarly, theres evidence to suggest that google started suspending a large number of the 
third partys advertisements before the policy was taken out as well. This prompted B to 
email google saying that it was causing a significant loss of opportunity and disruption to its 
business. And while I appreciate that B considers advert disapprovals are part of the day-to-
day operations of Googles automated service, it seems it was enough for it to complain that 
it was causing a loss of income at the time. And I note that this was part of the third partys 
dissatisfaction with Bs services, as it had to keep appealing its advertisements before they 
could be approved. So again, I dont think theres enough to say that Firm D was factually 
incorrect by saying that the disapproved adverts from before the policys inception form part 
of the factual matrix relevant to the third partys dispute.
So, on balance, Im not persuaded that Firm Ds legal assessment is patently incorrect. I 
therefore do not consider DAS to have acted unreasonably by relying on it to decline the 
legal expenses claim on the basis that the dispute arose pre-inception. And I will not be 
asking them to reinstate cover for this claim.
Legal costs incurred by B
On 8 February 2020, B informed DAS that it had incurred £2,900 in legal costs, as it said it 
had no choice but to utilise the services of its legal consultant due to the delay and 
difficulties experienced in DAS appointing a solicitor. It wasnt until 11 February 2020 that 
DAS appointed Firm I and, as a result of the delay in appointing legal representatives, they 
said they would reimburse any legal fees B had incurred up until that point from the date the 
claim was first made on 13 January 2020. As such, they asked for evidence of the costs that 
had been incurred.
B submitted an invoice for £6,795 in March 2020, which DAS have so far refused to pay as 
they cannot verify the details of Bs legal consultant. The invoice isnt on headed paper, and 
only gives a company name, address and telephone number. DAS say theyve been unable 
to find any evidence that the company/legal practice listed on the invoice even exists, and 
they also could not get through to the legal consultant on the telephone number provided. 
They also said the address of the company was a residential address. 
B says it gave updated contact details to DAS, as well as pictures of the legal consultants 
credentials, consisting of a certificate which names a particular individual as being a solicitor 
of the Supreme Court in May 1997. DAS say their panel solicitors have still been unable to 
locate this individual on the roll of solicitors, and there is still no indication that the legal 
practice named on the invoice exists. DAS have also noted that the name of the legal 
consultant shares the surname of another individual connected to B.Having considered all these circumstances, I can appreciate why DAS would be hesitant to 
reimburse the costs based on the current evidence presented, so I do not think they have 
acted unreasonably by failing to do so when the legal consultant (and associated legal 
practice) cannot be independently verified. However, should B later provide reasonable (and 
independently verifiable) evidence of the costs being incurred, as well as who they were 
incurred with, I would expect DAS to reconsider reimbursing them. 
Handling of the claim
B submits that it should be awarded compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered as a result of DASs conduct. However, B is a limited company and is a separate 
legal entity to Mrs O and the other directors that run it, so I cant compensate the directors of 
the company personally. This service can, however, make awards for inconvenience  so 
long as it was experienced by the company itself rather than the individuals bringing the 
complaint. 
DAS have acknowledged that elements of their service could have been better, as there 
were seemingly delays that could have been avoided, such as those in responding to B and 
the solicitors it was looking to instruct. DAS offered £100 for the inconvenience caused by 
their handling of the claim, so Ive considered whether this is a proportionate reflection of the 
inconvenience B has likely experienced.
I appreciate that DAS provisionally said the claim was covered, and that it took some time for 
them to reach the point of declining it. But Bs dispute with the third party is clearly a complex 
matter (as has been noted by Firm I), and disputes such as this often have to be reviewed by 
solicitors before all the details can fully be determined, such as when the dispute first arose. 
And given that DAS as the insurer is not a legal expert, I wouldnt have expected them to 
have necessarily identified from the outset that the disputes date of occurrence pre-dated 
the policy, as they were proceeding on the basis that the dispute occurred in October 2019 
as B had told them. 
I also understand that it wouldve been frustrating that B could not get its choice of solicitor 
appointed. But I can see that DAS said it was willing to negotiate its hourly rates up to the 
maximum relevant band as set out in the County Court guideline rates, which is what I would 
have expected in a dispute as complex as Bs. But the fact that Bs solicitors did not want to 
work with DAS due to a perceived poor reputation is not something the insurer can fairly be 
held responsible for, or that would warrant any form of award being made to B. 
I can see that DAS also offered the services of their panel solicitors from the outset. And 
while Firm I could have potentially been appointed sooner, DAS have already agreed to 
cover Bs legal costs it says it incurred during this period. I also understand it wouldve been 
frustrating having to chase the insurer for a response when legal proceedings were 
imminent. But in the circumstances, I consider the £100 already awarded by DAS to be fair 
compensation for the inconvenience this likely caused. So I will not be making any further 
award. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to B and its directors, as they clearly feel 
very strongly about this issue. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that DAS has 
acted unfairly by declining the legal expenses claim, or that any further compensation should 
be paid.
I understand B has also raised points concerning the sale of the policy and Hiscoxs decision 
to void cover. But given that DAS are not responsible for either of these actions, this isnt 
something Im able to comment on within this decision.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O  on behalf 
of B  to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman