DRN-3320954
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) failed to make it clear that mobile phones 
were excluded from the purchase protection insurance that came with a fee-paying Metal 
account.
Mr V says this resulted in him suffering an uninsured loss, as his claim for a stolen iPhone 
under the purchase protection policy was declined. Mr V says that, had Revolut made it clear 
what items were not covered, he wouldve instead sought to insure his iPhone elsewhere. 
To resolve the complaint, Mr V would like £999. 
What happened
Revolut did not uphold the complaint. But it did offer to pay Mr V £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he did not think that Revolut 
needed to do anything more, beyond what it had offered to resolve Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to be considered 
by an ombudsman.
As a reminder, this decision will only address whether Revolut acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. It will not address whether the insurer dealt with the claim fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think Revolut needs to do anything more than what it has already 
offered to do, to put matters right. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, Revolut has provided very little evidence to show what Mr V wouldve seen 
when he took out the metal account. It has provided a full copy of the insurance terms and 
conditions, and they do include the terms and conditions for the purchase protection 
insurance. But the section that explains what is not covered under the purchase protection 
cover is on page 53. 
Overall, I think that an exclusion that excludes cover for specific items under a purchase 
protection policy is a significant term of such a policy, and therefore is something that 
Revolut was required to have drawn to Mr Vs attention, when it sold the Metal account to 
him. And based on the little information Ive been provided with, I cant reasonably say that 
Revolut did draw this exclusion to Mr Vs attention before Mr V had agreed to it. 
As I think there has been a shortcoming in how the Metal account was sold  based on the 
evidence Ive been provided with  I now need to consider what detriment, if any, that Mr V 
suffered as a result of those shortcomings.
I note that Mr V took out the Metal account in January 2020, but did not buy the iPhone in 
question until October 2020. Therefore, I dont think its the case he took out the Metal 
account specifically to cover the phone he purchased in October 2020. I say this especially 
as I understand that he was able to take advantage of other benefits the account provided  
such as cashback and use of Revoluts investment service, before October 2020. Therefore I 
dont think that its the case that Mr V would not have upgraded to the more expensive Metal 
account in January 2020, had the purchase protection exclusions been made clearer.
Nevertheless, I have considered whether the uninsured loss that Mr V suffered was caused 
by Revoluts failure to draw his attention to the exclusion in the purchase protection 
insurance provided with the Metal account. However, I dont think it was.
The reason I say this is because Mr V purchased his iPhone on 19 October 2020. And I can 
see he contacted Revolut by webchat on 2 November 2020 to ask if the accidental damage 
and theft cover i.e. the Purchase Protection Insurance, would cover his iPhone in such 
cases. And he asked what the difference was with the device insurance (an insurance policy 
that is sold separately to the Metal account).
In Revoluts response on 2 November 2020, I can see that Mr V was told about what the 
Purchase Protection Insurance would cover (although it did not mention the phone 
exclusion) and also explained that the Device insurance would cover accidental damage, but 
not theft or loss.
Mr V then asked for clarification if a phone he purchased with the Metal account would be 
covered. Revolut responded on 3 November 2020 and explained that mobile phones and 
tablets are excluded from cover under the Metal account Purchase Protection Insurance.
Unfortunately, Mr Vs new phone was stolen on 17 November 2020. And when Mr V 
submitted a claim under the Purchase Protection Insurance, the claim was declined due to 
phones being excluded from cover.
So based on the above, Im satisfied that Mr V was made aware that mobile phones were 
excluded from cover under the Purchase Protection cover, and that theft and loss was not 
covered by the separate device insurance, before his phone was stolen.
Nevertheless, as Mr V was given this information on 2 and 3 November 2020, I think that the 
uninsured loss he went on to suffer on 17 November 2020 was not due to the lack of 
information provided by Revolut when the account had been sold to him. I say this 
essentially because Mr V had a reasonable amount of time to take out cover elsewhere 
before the loss had occurred.
I note that Mr V has said that he was given the option of taking out insurance with his tariff 
provider when he purchased the phone, but says he declined it because he thought that the 
Metal account purchase protection insurance would cover it. However, the website for Mr Vs 
tariff provider says that its insurance products can be taken out for handsets purchased 
within 18 months of purchase (or within 60 days to include the manufacturers dedicated 
support feature, that was available for his particular handset). 
So there was nothing to prevent Mr V from taking out insurance with his tariff provider, once 
he knew on 3 November 2020 that the Purchase Protection Insurance would not in fact 
cover his phone. And if it was the case that Mr V thought that his tariff providers insurance 
cover was only available when purchasing a phone, he still couldve obtained cover from 
elsewhere. 
As such, whilst I have some sympathy for Mr V, overall Im not able to say that the uninsured 
loss he suffered was directly caused by Revoluts failure to draw the mobile phone exclusion 
to his attention when it sold him the Metal account. I therefore dont think it would be 
appropriate to require Revolut to pay Mr V the value of his claim.
Putting things right
Revolut has agreed to pay Mr V £50 as a gesture of good will.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Revolut Ltd needs to do anything more 
than what it has already agreed to do, to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman