DRN-4118971
The complaint
 Mr A complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase did not refund a series of 
payments he lost as part of a scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. In summary, Mr A was introduced to an individual, X, who said he could help him 
invest. A number of Mr As friends had already invested and received returns. Mr A found Xs 
business on Companies House and felt it was legitimate so invested the following:
-18000.00 GBP on 12/07/202
-2000.00 GBP on 12/07/2022
-5000.00 GBP on 30/07/2022
+1,650.44 GBP on 05/08/2022
-23500.00 GBP on 12/08/2022
-10000.00 GBP on 15/08/2022
-11500.00 GBP on 18/08/2022
+1,600.00 GBP on 09/09/2022
The two credits were part of the returns Mr A was expecting. However, eventually X said his 
account had been frozen and he couldnt provide further returns. Mr A raised a fraud claim 
on 15 October 2022 as he believed he had been scammed. 
Chase did not uphold the claim as they said they had provided Mr A with warnings when he 
set up X as a new payee. Mr A referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator 
looked into it. They did not agree the payments were unusual or out of the ordinary, so did 
not uphold the complaint. Mr A asked for a decision, so the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision which read as follows: 
Firstly, Id like to clarify that I understand Chase bank is both the sending and the receiving 
bank in this case. I am only concentrating on Chases actions as the sending bank in this 
decision. 
All parties, including myself, agree that Mr A has been the victim of a scam. Hes said that X 
now has a warrant for his arrest and that several other victims have raised fraud complaints 
with their own banks. 
Ive considered whether Mr A is entitled to a refund under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model code, which provides customers with increased protection from these types of scams. 
However, this is a voluntary scheme that Chase is not signed up to. Despite this, Chase still 
has a basic duty of care for its customers.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr A authorised the payments as he believed they were part of a 
legitimate investment. So, while I recognise that Mr A didnt intend for the funds to be used 
as part of a scam, the starting position in law is that Chase was obliged to follow Mr As 
instruction and process the payments. Because of this, Mr A is not automatically entitled to a 
refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Chase did enough to 
try to keep Mr As account safe.
Mr A opened his Chase account in April 2022, and he did not use it until July 2022, when he 
credited funds from his Chase savings account and then forwarded £18,000 to X. What 
followed was a regular pattern of behavior of Mr A crediting the account from his savings and 
then forwarding on the funds to X. There were also two credits as outlined previously of 
around £1,600 which X said were returns. 
The Investigator has correctly pointed out that prior to the scam payments, there was no 
regular account activity, so it is difficult to agree that these payments were therefore out of 
character for Mr A. Different individuals use their accounts in different ways and what might 
be suspicious behavior for one person may not be the same for another. Though I do think 
the first payment made from the account of £18,000 was relatively high value and could 
reasonably have warranted a conversation with Mr A prior to it leaving the account. 
Ive gone on to consider whether or not a conversation with Mr A would have revealed the 
scam and stopped any future payments being made. Mr A had been informed of the 
investment by someone he trusted who had also been involved with X (as a victim) for 
some time prior to that. Mr A has explained that he was convinced by the scam because he 
had spoken with friends who had said they received some returns payments and he had 
seen Xs bank account with a significant amount of money in it, which fit with the image he 
was trying to portray. Mr A had also researched the business on Companies House, and 
signed official paperwork for the investments. So, he felt it was a legitimate business. 
Considering all of this, I dont think its likely that a conversation with Chase or a tailored 
scam warning would have been enough to break the spell of the scam, as individuals that  
Mr A trusted also felt it was legitimate. And I note it took a few months after the last payment 
to X for Mr A to realise this was a scam, which I think highlights how convincing it was. 
Because of this, I dont think that Chase could reasonably have stopped the funds from 
being processed, so they do not need to refund them. 
Chase has said that by the time Mr A made them aware of the scam, none of his funds 
remained in the beneficiary account, so they could not recover them. With this in mind, I 
dont think they could reasonably have done more to recover the funds once they were 
aware of the scam. 
I appreciate that Mr A has made us aware of other complaints in which we have found in 
favour of consumers for scams he feels are similar. However, every case must be 
considered individually and under its own merit. This is what I have done for Mr As case, taking his own unique circumstances into consideration. Having done so, Im currently 
minded not to uphold this complaint.  
In summary, based on what Ive seen so far, I think that Chase could reasonably have 
flagged the first payment due to its high volume. However, I dont think a conversation, or a 
tailored scam warning would have been enough to reveal the scam due to the way in which 
Mr A was introduced to it. And I dont think Chase could have reasonably recovered the 
funds once they were aware of the scam. So, I dont think they need to take any further 
action in relation to this complaint.
Chase did not respond with any additional comments or evidence for me to consider.
Mr A responded and provided the following comments, in summary:
Chases investigation of his claim and complaint was inadequate and is a reflection of 
the staff in general.
He pointed to another complaint that was brought to our service connected to the 
same scam which was upheld and felt this showed his complaint should also be 
upheld for consistency.
He believes Chase were aware of the scam as they questioned Mr A about Xs 
account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As additional comments, starting with Chases handling of the 
investigation into the claim and complaint. I can see it took three and a half weeks for Chase 
to provide an outcome to the fraud claim, which on balance is not an unreasonable length of 
time considering the amounts involved. Though I do recognise Mr A had to chase for 
updates throughout. And there were then delays to Chase issuing a final response letter. 
I appreciate Mr A having to chase and the time taken for a final response letter to be issued 
was frustrating for him. But overall, this doesnt affect my findings on the payments 
themselves being processed. As explained in my provisional decision, I assessed the 
fraudulent transactions with relevant regulatory guidance and good industry practice in mind. 
While I appreciate Mr A feels Chase did not promptly and effectively investigate the fraud, 
this hasnt changed my findings on the fraud itself.  
I understand that Mr A feels we have not been consistent in our approach to scam cases, 
and he has pointed to another case our service upheld which he feels is similar. However, 
every case is different, as I explained in the provisional decision. In Mr As case, having 
considered all of the individual merits involved, I do not think Chase needs to take further 
action to remedy the complaint, for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision.
Mr A feels Chase were aware of issues with X as they questioned him on 29 August 2022 
about the payments he sent and received to Xs account. From what Ive seen, this is due to 
concerns raised about Xs account after Mr A had made the payments, but no official 
investigation was launched at that time.  Mr A responded and confirmed X was borrowing 
the money, and later said this was for house renovations. However, this was 11 days after 
Mr A made the final payment to X, and Mr A gave Chase no indication there was an issue 
with X at that time. So again, this would not have had an impact on Chases decision to process the payments prior to that point. And this has not changed my findings on the fraud 
claim itself.
Id like to again acknowledge that Mr A has been the victim of a scam, and that this has been 
a difficult situation for him. Id like to assure him that I have carefully considered everything 
available to me to reach an outcome I feel is fair. Having done so, I do not direct Chase to 
take any further action to remedy the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint against J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman