DRN-2917669
The complaint
Mr M complains that Starline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) provided him with lending 
which was unaffordable. He also says it didnt treat him fairly at a time when he experienced 
financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with Startline in March 2017 to fund the 
acquisition of a car. The cash price of the car was £14,500 and the total repayable including 
interest was £15,425.88. Mr M contributed a deposit of £10,400, so he was provided with 
£4,100 of credit. He was required to repay this by making 34 monthly payments of £139.33 
and a final payment of £149.33.
In November 2019 Mr M complained to Startline because he thought that it hadnt carried out 
a reasonable or proportionate check of his ability to repay the lending sustainably. He said 
that hed been struggled to make the payments, particularly during 2019 when hed been 
unable to work due to a period of ill health. Mr M said that instead of treating him 
sympathetically as a vulnerable customer, Startline bullied and harassed him and threatened 
to repossess the car. 
Mr M ultimately sold the car and settled the lending with Startline. In light of his complaint he 
asked Startline to refund all fees, interest and charges along with interest on those sums, 
compensate him for distress and inconvenience caused as well as what he considered to be 
a loss he suffered as a result of selling the car under market value in order to repay the 
lending. 
Startline upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. It accepted that it had contacted Mr M chasing a 
payment after he had settled the lending. It apologised if Mr M had found that threatening 
and said it wasnt its intention. With regards to the affordability of the lending, it said that Mr 
M signed an agreement which adequately explained the terms of the lending and said Mr M 
shouldnt accept the lending if he wouldnt be able to meet the repayments. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. In 
summary, they didnt think that Startline had adequately assessed Mr Ms ability to repay the 
lending. However, they werent persuaded by the evidence provided that the lending was 
unaffordable. Our investigator also found that Startline had acted reasonably by contacting 
Mr M when payments were missed and had handled things fairly. Lastly, they concluded that 
Startlines apology for contacting Mr M after the account had been settled was sufficient. 
Mr M disagreed. He asked for an ombudsmans decision so the case has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  and I think it is in this case 
 Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities; that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In deciding whether Startline acted fairly by lending to Mr M Ive taken into account relevant 
law, rules, regulations, guidance as well as what was considered good industry practice at 
the time. In this case Ive had particular regard for the requirements for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook. 
With that in mind, I think there are two questions I need to examine to decide on what a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be;
1. Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the borrowing without having a significant adverse impact on 
his financial position?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr M could 
not sustainably repay the borrowing.
2. Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able to repay the borrowing without having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
position?
Startline was required to complete reasonable and proportionate checks of Mr Ms ability to 
sustainably repay the lending it provided. Carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks 
does not look the same for every customer. But Id have expected Startline to take into 
account a number of factors including Mr Ms specific financial circumstances, the amount of 
credit, the total repayable, the duration of the agreement and the size of the regular 
payments, in determining what a reasonable and proportionate check would be.
Startline says that Mr M initially applied for a higher level of lending but it wouldnt accept 
that unless Mr M could provide evidence of his income. It subsequently accepted an 
application for a lesser amount, on the terms outlined above. Startline says that it believed 
Mr M was self employed and living with his parents. It says it checked his credit file found 
historic indications of financial struggles, but believed recent data showed financial stability. 
Startline didnt provide evidence of its checks.
Like our investigator, Im satisfied that the checks Startline carried out werent reasonable or 
proportionate. Its not provided evidence to show that any checks were done, but even if I 
accept it carried out the checks it says it did, it doesnt seem that Startline asked Mr M for 
any specific information about his income, expenditure and ongoing financial commitments. 
Thats something Id have expected it to do given it initially had concerns about Mr Ms 
financial position in assessing his initial application, and seems to accept there were historic 
indicators of financial instability on his credit file.  
As a result, I find that Startline didnt complete a reasonable and proportionate check of Mr 
Ms affordability to repay the lending.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown
Determining what reasonable and proportionate checks might have been isnt straight 
forward. But given the level of lending as well as what Startline says it found when it completed checks, Id have expected it to have established a more comprehensive picture of 
Mr Ms financial position at the time.
To consider what Mr Ms financial position at the time was, Id usually start by looking at 
evidence of earnings, bank statements and a credit file from Mr M. Thats not to say that I 
wouldve expected Startline to ask for all of those things, but theyre nonetheless likely to 
represent an accurate picture of Mr Ms financial position at the time of his application.
Mr M told us that at the point of his application, he was living with family and paid £200 a 
month in rent, plus food and travel costs. He said he had monthly commitments of £40 for a 
gym membership and £35 per month for a mobile phone agreement. Based on previous tax 
returns, Mr M said that he had earned;
-  2016  2017 Tax year £5,628.60
-  2017  2018 Tax year £4,776.52
-  2018  2019 Tax year £1,041.53 (Loss) 
Our investigator gave Mr M, in my opinion, ample opportunity to provide evidence of his 
financial position. Specifically, they asked him for bank statements, his credit file, evidence 
of income in the form of the tax returns he referred to as well as evidence of his financial 
commitments at the time. Mr M didnt provide the evidence our investigator requested, so 
they assessed his case on the evidence available to them. Ill need to do the same. 
Overall, Ive not been presented with sufficient evidence of Mr Ms financial position to 
demonstrate that the lending Startline gave him was unaffordable. And I think that Mr M 
ought reasonably to have been able to provide us with the required evidence to demonstrate 
that, if it had been the case. 
Additionally, it seems that Mr M began to struggle making repayments almost two years into 
the agreement, and that  by Mr Ms account  was due to ill health. I think that suggests 
that the lending was likely affordable for Mr M at the outset. 
Given the above, I cannot fairly conclude that Startline ought not to have lent to Mr M on the 
basis that the lending was unaffordable. 
Did Startline treat Mr M unfairly in some other way
From what Mr M has said its clear that he feels strongly that Startline couldve done more to 
help during a period of unfortunate ill health during 2019. Im sorry to hear of Mr Ms ill health 
and the effect it ultimately had on his finances.
Once a lender is aware that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, Id expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Ms account of how he says he was treated by Startline, as well 
as evidence of Startlines contact with him which it provided in the form of contact notes. 
Having done so, I dont agree with Mr Ms assertion that Startline bullied or harassed him. I 
also dont agree that it didnt treat him fairly or failed on its regulatory obligations in that 
respect. 
From what Ive seen it seems clear that Mr M found himself in an unfortunate position 
whereby he was struggling to make payments to Startline. It appears that Startline were 
proactive in contacting Mr M in those instances and payment arrangements were negotiated.Some of the contact may have referred to the potential repossession of the car. Its 
understandable that Mr M might have found that upsetting. But I dont think that was 
Startlines intention. Additionally, if Mr M ultimately hadnt been able to repay the lending, 
repossessing the car sooner rather than later may have served to limit Mr Ms liability under 
the agreement.
Lastly, I agree with our investigators position on the correspondence Startline sent to Mr M 
about further payments after the lending had been repaid. Startline accepts it sent Mr M an 
email and called him about outstanding sums and that this was done in error. In this case I 
think the apology Startline offered is sufficient to put things right.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ms position, I dont think that Startline treated him 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman