DRN-2902223
The complaint
Mrs A complains, through her attorney Mr P, that Trentham Invest Ltd didnt provide suitable 
advice and charged her excessive fees. 
What happened
Mr P contacted Trentham in 2014 and in an outline proposal sent to him on 20 October 
2014 it identified his objective as being help in managing Mrs As portfolio and referred to an 
income shortfall of £52,546  relating to what she needed for her nursing home fees - which 
would be covered by her portfolio. The adviser indicated she would be able to increase the 
income from £13,750 to £79,000 through some strategic changes.
The letter sets out the fees as; an initial advice fee of £7,250 to include an audit of Mrs As 
investments and a written report as to how these could be best managed; an implementation 
fee of 1% for completing the necessary work to make changes; an ongoing advice fee of 1% 
of the funds managed to be taken from the ISA and Collective Investment Account (CIA).
Trentham provided an Investment Audit Advice Report (the Investment Report) dated 6 
May 2015 which identified the biggest risk of the existing portfolio was the value at risk under 
the FSCS limit resulting from the amount invested in the Jupiter Unit Trust, amounting to 
over 90% of the portfolio.
The adviser advised that; Mrs As ISA allowance be used each year; she move her ISAs to 
the OMW platform and rebalance; the CGT position within the Jupiter Unit Trust be 
established and sufficient sold to make use of the CGT allowance for 2015/2016; sell 
sufficient of the portfolio to make use of the yearly CGT allowance going forwards; spread 
the investment across different managers to spread the FSCS risk; to make sure income is 
turned on from the portfolios to compensate for loss of funds on the gilts and fixed interest 
funds.
There was a meeting on 23 June 2015 with Mr P and his accountant, Mr P1.The notes of the 
meeting refer to the following issues having been identified; the value at risk from a FSCS 
perspective meaning the portfolio could turn from £1.7 million into £50,000; there being no 
income from the portfolio; and the CGT which meant every pound has a gain of 56 pence.
The notes record that Mr P and Mr P1 confirmed they would sell the portfolio and pay the 
CGT of around £260,000 and remove the value at risk from the portfolio and agreed the 
adviser should design a new portfolio for income and use the CGT allowance and ISA 
allowance each year.
The meeting notes from a further meeting on 8 July 2015 refer to Mr P being advised that 
the implementation fee needed to be amended from 1% to 2% and this was agreed, with Mr 
P signing a new fee schedule.
The portfolio was moved to the OMW platform and a large part of the Jupiter Unit Trust 
investments were sold and reinvested in other funds with different fund managers. CGT of 
£180,920 was paid as a result of the sale of the Jupiter investments.
Trentham provided ongoing advice, reviews and rebalancing of the portfolio going forwards 
up to when Mr P stopped using its services in 2018. He then complained in 2019. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint and my findings are set out below:
The Implementation fee
There is no issue that Trentham initially agreed that the implementation fee would be 
based on 1% of the portfolio value subject to a maximum of £20,000. This was set out in 
the outline proposal sent to Mr P on 29 October 2014.
It was repeated in the advisers letter to Mr P dated 15 December 2014 which, under the 
heading Implementation stated:
I quoted in my letter 1% of the sums invested, but as discussed, it depends on what the 
outcomes are from the audit and options meeting. I would therefore prefer to quote 
separately on this matter. However, it will be no more than 1% of the sums invested and 
based on £2m, this would equal £20,000. And I will say it will be no more than this fee.
The implementation fee of 1% was also set out in the New Business instruction Mr P 
signed on 12 February 2015 and in the Investment Audit Advice report that the adviser 
prepared for Mr P dated 6 May 2015. This report was discussed with Mr P at the meeting 
on 23 June 2015.
The meeting notes from 23 June 2015 set out a numbered summary of what was discussed, 
and this included reference to the adviser fee and the fee being quoted as 1% on the New 
Business Instruction but to be discussed again in a couple of weeks time. It isnt clear 
whether the reference to the adviser fee is to the ongoing fee or the implementation fee.
However, after the numbered summary of what was discussed the meeting notes go on to 
state that they were going to discuss the implementation fee of 2% of sums invested for 
the amount of work involved. If this was discussed with Mr P I dont know why it wasnt 
set out in the numbered summary but in any event, there was nothing in writing put to Mr 
P about this.
What we then have are the meeting notes from the further meeting that took place on 8 July 
2015, which state:
Advised at the beginning of the job that the implementation fee was set at 1% of the sums 
invested but having now reflected on that we need to amend the fee to 2%. (Mr P) agreed 
with that  he said he wanted us to do our best job and therefore agreed to sign the new 
revised fee schedule.
I have seen a fee schedule signed by Mr P dated 8 July 2015 which sets out eleven 
items and a total fee of £33,266. The fee schedule isnt identified as the implementation 
fee and there is no reference to a fee of 2% in the schedule. Mr P has said he thought 
that it was a combination of the implementation fee and the ongoing annual fee.
Trentham argue that there is nothing to suggest that the £33,266 included anything for the 
ongoing annual fee. However, Im not satisfied the schedule was clear about what the 
amount set out was for. For example, there is reference to rebalancing the portfolio every 
six months and redesigning the portfolio asset allocation and funds each year. Looking at the ongoing fee arrangement Mr P agreed to this makes reference to keeping investment 
portfolios in line with risk tolerances, which is what rebalancing the portfolio does.
The 8 July 2015 fee schedule also refers to using the CGT allowance and ISA allowance 
on an ongoing basis. Again, looking at the ongoing fee arrangement this refers to tax 
mitigation and planning and helping to reduce the tax burden.
So, I dont agree with Trentham that it was clear what the fee schedule of 8 July 
2015 included or that this was only in relation to the implementation fee.
Im mindful that under the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) Trentham was 
required to provide information as to its costs. COBS 6.1.11(1) states that the information 
must be provided in good time before the provision of the designated investment 
business, COBS 6.1.13 states the information must be provided on a durable medium and 
COBS 6.1.14 states that a firm must notify a client in good time about any material 
change to the information provided and this must be in a durable medium.
Im not satisfied that Trentham did give Mr P the information it should have done 
regarding the change to the implementation fee. The letter of 15 December 2014 was 
unequivocal in stating the fee would be 1% and that this amounted to £20,000 based on a 
portfolio value of £2 million. The adviser stated in the letter that it will be no more than 
this fee. I think this is a reference to the 1% - although Mr P has in the course of this 
complaint referred to this meaning the fee wouldnt be above £20,000.
Any change to this I think needed to be communicated clearly to Mr P in good time and in 
writing and I dont think this was done. I have seen no document provided to Mr P which 
refers to an implementation fee of 2%. The only evidence of this fee is the meeting notes 
the adviser completed. In the circumstances, based on the evidence that I have seen, Im 
not satisfied that Trentham was entitled to charge an implementation fee of 2% to Mrs As 
portfolio.
The ongoing advice fee
I dont think there is any issue with the ongoing adviser fee of 1% which was charged to 
both the CIA and ISA before being changed to 1.13% taken only from the CIA.
Trenthams advice regarding the FSCS limit.
In its FRL Trentham states that it advised moving to the OMW platform as a result of 
its policy of using a platform to spread investments across more than one fund 
provider to minimise the risk of disruption and maximise FSCS protection.
The risk Mrs A could lose most of her portfolio if something went wrong with Jupiter 
may have been small. However, the consequences to Mrs A if this did happen would 
have been very damaging  she is unlikely to have been able to pay for her care 
fees in the medium to long term.
Im not satisfied in the circumstances that it is more likely than not the advice to move the 
portfolio to a platform with a view to selling Jupiter funds and reinvesting in a variety of 
funds managed by different fund providers was unsuitable.
I acknowledge Mr P may feel that the risk was over emphasised. However, I am not 
satisfied that the adviser was wrong to point out this risk and advise that the portfolio be 
invested differently. I am also not able to say that it is more likely than not Mr P wouldnt 
still have changed the portfolio if the adviser had placed less emphasis on the risk.Trentham has suggested in the course of the complaint that the existing portfolio in 2015 
was at a risk level of eight out of ten. However, the only evidence I have seen where there 
is reference to a risk level of eight is the meeting notes from October 2017 at which point 
the portfolio was different to 2015.
Trentham advised in 2017 the portfolio should be rebalanced to a risk level of four, but 
this never happened as Mr P stopped using its services. I dont think Trenthams 
assessment of the risk of the portfolio in 2017 is relevant to the issues in this complaint.
However, I think it is more likely than not the portfolio was at too high a risk in 2015 given 
the Jupiter funds it was invested in. This would have been another reason to sell the 
Jupiter funds and rebalance the portfolio  so that it was more in line with the level of risk it 
was assessed Mr P was happy with  five out of ten.
I note that he has suggested that in assessing the risk of the portfolio account should 
have been taken of the Gilts. However, Im not satisfied that Trentham should have 
included assets outside of the portfolio it was advising on and managing when 
considering the risk of the portfolio.
Trenthams advice regarding the tax position of the portfolio
The adviser identified a potential CGT liability in the Investment report of May 2015 and in 
the subsequent meeting of 23 June 2015 it is recorded that Mr P would sell the portfolio 
and pay the CGT liability of around £260,000 to remove the value at risk from the 
portfolio.
There is a report dated 25 August 2015 which is headed Capital Gains Tax and 
Investment Design Report. (the CGT report) This report set out the detailed calculations 
Trentham had carried out to arrive at a figure of £262,653 for CGT. The report then goes 
on to explain the options that Mr P had. The first option was to leave the funds where they 
were, but the report warned that this exposed the portfolio to the FSCS risk that had 
previously been discussed.
The second option was to sell the funds, pay the CGT and then design a bespoke portfolio 
so that the investments in it were under the FSCS limit risk. It was this option that the 
adviser recommended Mr P should take with Mrs A portfolio  in line with what he had 
already indicated in the meeting in June 2015.
In the end Mrs A ended up paying CGT of £180,920 resulting from the sale of Jupiter 
funds as some of the fund value and CGT liability was retained in the portfolio.
Mr P has pointed out that there would have been no CGT payable if there had been no 
sale of the Jupiter funds before Mrs As death. I note that in its FRL Trentham stated that 
there would instead be an IHT liability and that this would be more than the CGT. I note 
the investigator also referred to the IHT liability when referring to the CGT payment. I dont 
think IHT is relevant to the issue of CGT.
Firstly, whilst the amount paid in CGT would obviously not then form part of Mrs As estate 
and be subject to IHT I dont think she would be better off in terms of IHT because CGT 
has been paid. Secondly the payment of the CGT liability wasnt based on advice 
Trentham gave about IHT in any event.
If there was going to be a move out of Jupiter funds because of the FSCS risk, as 
Trentham advised there should be, then it was inevitable that CGT would be payable. So, 
if that advice was suitable, and `I have found that it was, then it follows CGT was going to 
be payable based on that advice.In short, I am not satisfied that Mrs A has paid CGT as a result of unsuitable advice from 
Trentham. Even if that wasnt the case, I am not satisfied that it would be fair or 
reasonable for Trentham to be asked to pay Mrs A the CGT she has paid.
The only way that she would avoid paying this is if Mr P hadnt agreed to sell the Jupiter 
funds when advised to do so and these funds remained in her portfolio until her death. I 
dont think it is possible to say it is more likely than not this is what would have happened if 
Mr P hadnt accepted the advice from Trentham.
The advice to invest for income
Mr P has referred to income from the portfolio not being fully switched on to pay Mrs As 
care fees until 2018. From what I have seen what happened is that Mr P used Mrs As Gilts 
to pay her care fees until 2018. This is referred to in communications I have seen between 
Mr P and Trentham, so both parties were aware this was what was happening. Im not 
satisfied this means Trentham did something wrong in advising Mr P on the basis the 
portfolio was to provide an income given her need for money to pay care fees could last for 
many years.
Mr P has said that Trentham should have advised that the Gilts be used to purchase an 
annuity to pay some of the care fees and that this would have removed the amount used 
for that purpose from Mrs As estate for IHT purposes. I am not satisfied that Trentham 
were asked to provide advice related to Mrs As IHT position, so Im persuaded it did 
anything wrong because it didnt base its advice on this.
There is also no persuasive evidence her IHT position is worse as a result of what has 
happened. The Gilts have been used to pay the care fees and the CGT liability and so will 
not form part of her estate and wont attract IHT in any event.
Even if Mr P had been advised to use the Gilts to purchase an annuity - and it is arguable its 
role was limited to advice and management of Mrs As investment portfolio rather than her 
wider finances  I have been provided with northing that shows that Mrs A is worse off 
because she didnt do this.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing further information. Mr P 
didnt have anything further to add. Trentham didnt agree with my findings as to the 
implementation fee and made a number of points and provided various documents which it 
thought I hadnt previously seen to support what it said. In summary it said:
Mr P signed the Adviser Fee Authorisation forms for the CIA and ISA which showed 
a fee of 1% for the ongoing fee.
These were signed on 1 June 2015, before Mr P signed the Adviser Fee 
Authorisation form for the ad-hoc fee and it is incomprehensible that when he signed 
this that he thought this could include the ongoing fee as he would have signed up to 
pay ongoing fees twice.
The form for the ad-hoc fee signed by Mr P on 8 July 2015 was for £33,266 which is 
2% of the portfolio value at the time.
Mr P paid the monthly service fee from July 2015 to October 2017 as seen on the 
Adviser Fee Authorisation form for the CIA signed and 1 June 2016 and the signed 
but undated form for the ISA. 
The online confirmation document and transferring scheme authority were signed 1 
June 2015.If Mr P thought that the ad-hoc fee included an element of the ongoing fee then 
clearly he would have expected that the monthly ongoing fee would start at some 
point in the future and not June 2015.
The ongoing fees were presented to Mr P at each review meeting and he didnt 
challenge the ad-hoc fee or ongoing fee at any time.
He never queried the content of the Adviser Fee Authorisation forms with it, although 
the forms state the client should discuss the content.
It believes that it was clear to Mr P that the fee of £33,266 related to the 
implementation fee. 
I asked Trentham for its comments on the COBS rules that I had referred to. In response it 
provided the following response:
It provided information in good time before provision of the service in accordance 
with COBS 6.1.11(1) because it had provided information about the fee of 1% at the 
outset based on the information provided. This showed there wasnt a significant 
CGT issue which turned out to be incorrect. The fee was increased to 2% when it 
was apparent the job was bigger, and this was all agreed and signed before the 
business was transacted. Mr P was informed of the change at the meeting on 23 
June 2015 with this being reiterated on 8 July 2015, before Mr P signed the fee 
schedule.
The initial agreement dated 20 October 2014 which referred to the implementation 
fee was in durable medium as required by COBS 6.1.13 with the variation 
communicated at the meeting of 23 June 2015 before being provided in writing on 8 
July 2015. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the various points made by Trentham about the implementation fee and 
considered the various additional documents it has provided, but I am not persuaded I 
should change my findings about this.
Trentham has provided a reason for it wanting to increase the implementation fee  namely 
that it needed to do more work regarding the CGT. I note that it has never provided any 
written explanation to Mr P as to why the fee needed to increase and even the meeting 
notes where a 2% fee is mentioned only refer more work being necessary without any detail 
provided.
In any event Trentham has referred to an email from Mr P dated 7 November 2014 which 
referred to a CGT loss of only £1,000 which subsequently turned out to be wrong.
However, this post-dated the outline proposal which stated the implementation fee of 1%. 
So, the incorrect information about CGT in the email couldnt have been a factor in the 
decision to charge 1% in the first place. 
Trentham certainly were aware of the CGT position as of the date it drafted the Investment 
Report dated 6 May 2015 as there is a detailed analysis of Mrs As portfolio and a potential 
CGT liability of £261,250 is referred to but there is nothing in the report suggesting a need to 
increase the implementation fee which is still specified at 1%.Having appreciated at the time of that report that the CGT position was very different to what 
Mr P had indicated, it could have informed Mr P in writing in good time before the meeting of 
23 June 2015 if this meant it was going to need to change the implementation fee - but it put 
nothing in writing. So, I dont find the explanation for the increase to the fee that convincing.
In any event, whether, or not, Trentham had a reason to increase the implementation fee 
from the amount it originally agreed to charge, what I am considering is whether Mr P was 
provided with the information he should have been about an increase to the fee from 1% to 
2%. 
Trentham has provided various documents which it argues shows that Mr P was aware of 
the increase and agreed to it. I acknowledge that the documents that Trentham has referred 
to could have made Mr P aware that the ad-hoc fee he agreed to pay of £33,326 didnt 
include the ongoing fee. 
However, I am not persuaded that they necessarily did make him aware of this. I think it is 
quite possible that he was confused as to what he had agreed to pay for, given that the 
documents he was asked to sign on 8 July 2015 made no reference to the implementation 
fee or to a fee of 2%. 
Even if I was satisfied that Mr P should have been aware that the fee of £33,326 was the 
implementation fee, I am not satisfied that it would be fair or reasonable that Mrs A pay this 
amount. I think any change to the implementation fee needed to be put in writing in good 
time before Mr P agreed to pay anything.
I note the Client Agreement signed by Mr P on 28 February 2015 stated that Trentham 
operates on a fee basis and that it will agree its basis, frequency and method in writing 
before any chargeable work is done. Trentham provided nothing in writing to Mr P about the 
basis of the ad-hoc fee being 2% of the portfolio value. Also, the schedule of fees Mr P 
signed on 8 July 2015 covered work that had already been done, so Trentham hadnt agreed 
the basis of its fees before it carried out chargeable work as the agreement said it would. 
The fee of 2% that Trentham charged Mrs A isnt referred to once in correspondence before 
Mr P is asked to sign the Adviser Fee Authorisation form for the ad-hoc fee on 8 July 2015. It 
is worth noting that the form itself allows a percentage figure to be specified rather than an 
amount, but it is an amount that is set out.
I also dont think that Trentham was compliant with the COBS rules despite what it has 
suggested. Having specified an implementation fee of 1% and that it wouldnt be above this 
figure, I think Trentham needed to put in writing any change to that fee to comply with its 
obligations under the COBS rules - which rules say what Trentham must do, not what it can 
do.
The rules are clear that any change to the information provided, which includes information 
about fees, must be notified to the client in good time and in a durable medium. Trentham 
didnt provide information about the change to the implementation fee in a durable medium 
in my opinion - the fee schedule doesnt identify the figure of £33,266 as the implementation 
fee. Even if it could be said the fee schedule was notification of itself to a change to the 
implementation fee, it wasnt provided in good time given Mr P was asked to sign the 
Advisory Fee Authorisation form for the ad-hoc fee to pay the amount of £33,266 at the 
same time as the fee schedule.
For the avoidance of doubt my findings in my provisional decision about the other issues in 
this complaint stand.Putting things right
Given my finding that Trentham should not have charged the portfolio a 2% implementation 
fee and should have only charged 1% it should pay Mrs A half the amount of the fee 
schedule of 8 July 2015. This amounts to £16,633. In addition, it should pay simple interest 
at 8% from the date the fee was paid to the date of settlement herein. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above. Trentham Invest Ltd must 
pay Mrs A the redress I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman