DRN-3822829
The complaint
The estate of the late Miss M complains that Rathbones Investment Management Limited 
(Rathbones) charged Miss M portfolio management fees for a shareholding that wasnt 
held in its custody, that couldnt be sold, and for which it didnt provide any investment 
management service. 
The complaint is brought by the executor of the estate, who I will refer to as Mr V. He says 
he wants Rathbones to refund the fees it charged on this shareholding, plus interest.
What happened
Miss M had a discretionary investment management agreement with Rathbones. She 
transferred her portfolio to Rathbones from her previous provider in June 2014. The portfolio 
included a shareholding which Ill refer to as A. But the share certificate was held by a third 
party. Miss M had given instructions that the shares should not be sold, but she wanted them 
included in her portfolio, so they didnt get forgotten about.
Miss M passed away in May 2020. In February 2021, Mr V complained about the fees 
charged on A shares.
Rathbones said Miss M was fully aware that A shares were subject to its management fees; 
that she wanted the shares reflected in her portfolio; and that, whilst the shares couldnt be 
sold without her agreement, they were taken into account by Rathbones in the management 
of her portfolio.
When the complaint was referred to us, Rathbones didnt consent to us considering it as it 
thought it had been brought too late. It referred to the time limits applicable to this services 
jurisdiction whereby a complainant must bring a complaint within six years of the event 
complained of or, if later, within three years from when the complainant knew or should 
reasonably have known they had cause to complain.
One of our ombudsmen considered whether we could investigate the complaint or if it had 
been brought too late. He decided that we couldnt consider what happened when the 
portfolio was transferred to Rathbones in 2014  and specifically the inclusion of A shares in 
the portfolio  because the complaint hadnt been brought within six years of that event. He 
also concluded that Miss M had been aware the A shares formed part of her portfolio 
because she received statements in 2014 showing this.
But the ombudsman decided we could consider the fees charged to the portfolio in respect 
of A shares from 30 January 2015, because this was within six years of the date that the 
executor of the estate complained to Rathbones.
Our investigator considered the merits of the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. They didnt think there was enough evidence to show that Rathbones had 
specifically told Miss M that A shares would be subject to its management fees. And that it 
hadnt treated her fairly by applying its fees without letting Miss M know of other options for 
her A shares. The investigator concluded Rathbones should reimburse the estate with the 
management fees charged on A shares from January 2015 until the portfolio was liquidated.
Rathbones didnt agree and explained, in some detail, why. In summary, it said:
The decision to include A shares in the portfolio was Miss Ms, and she was happy with 
the arrangement. It gave her the required peace of mind that A shares wouldnt be 
forgotten about.
Mr V had authority on Miss Ms portfolio from January 2020, a few months before she 
passed away. He told Rathbones that, Miss M confirms that she wishes to continue to 
hold these shares, despite their significant proportionate reported value within her 
Rathbone portfolio. Both Miss M and Mr V would have been aware of the associated 
fees. And Mr V didnt raise a complaint about the fees until after Miss M had died and the 
portfolio had been liquidated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint, and Rathbones response to our 
investigators conclusions, in far less detail than the parties and in my own words. There is a 
considerable amount of information here but Im not going to respond to every single point 
made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
As noted above, another ombudsman has already issued a decision to the parties regarding 
whether we are able to look at this complaint. Having also considered this matter, taking into 
account the time limits set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules contained in the FCA 
handbook, my view is that this service can consider the fairness of fees charged by 
Rathbones in relation to A shares within six years of the date they were first complained 
about. Mr V complained to Rathbones about these fees on 30 January 2021. So I will 
consider the fairness of the fees charged from 30 January 2015. 
The holding of A shares was shown in Miss Ms portfolio when the portfolio was transferred 
to Rathbones in June 2014. When the portfolio was transferred, Miss M agreed to 
Rathbones terms and conditions. These allowed for shares of her choice to be held in the 
discretionary portfolio. Clause 2.3 explained that:
We may, at our discretion, accept suggestions or requests from you in relation to specific 
investments to be held, bought or sold in respect of your Portfolio. Where we accept such 
suggestions or requests from you, we will only do so by exercising our discretion in deciding 
whether or not to deal in such an investment in respect of your Portfolio. Investments 
purchased as a result will be included in your discretionary Portfolio. Any such suggestions 
or requests will not be regarded as in any way limiting or amending the discretionary 
authority provided by you to us. Where we decide in our discretion that such an investment 
or transaction is not suitable for your Portfolio, we will make separate arrangements for you 
to deal in such an investment on an execution only basis.
I think this made it reasonably clear that Miss M was able to hold A shares in her portfolio, 
with Rathbones agreement, and that those shares formed part of her discretionary portfolio.And the terms also made it reasonably clear that the management fees were charged by 
reference to the value of your Portfolio at the end of each Quarter (9.10.2). I dont find there 
was anything in the terms to suggest that any investments held in the portfolio would be 
exempt from Rathbones management fees. Im satisfied that Miss M was aware that A 
shares formed part of her portfolio and that she was, most likely, aware that the value of A 
shares was included in the calculation of Rathbones investment management fee.
But, whilst Ive found that Rathbones acted in line with its agreed terms and conditions, and 
Im satisfied that Miss M was most likely aware that fees would be charged on her A shares, 
Rathbones had an obligation to treat Miss M fairly and reasonably. So I need to consider 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably when it included the value of A shares in its 
management fee calculation. Having considered this very carefully, I agree with the 
investigator that Rathbones didnt treat Miss M fairly. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires Rathbones to conduct its business with 
integrity and to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. As part 
of these requirements, the fees Miss M paid should have been in exchange for a clear 
service that was delivered. Im not persuaded that the fee Rathbones charged fairly 
reflected the work it said it did for her.
A shares rose in value to be worth around 20% of her portfolio. And that 20% didnt need 
any specific work or analysis, because Miss M had instructed that A shares could never be 
sold or transferred. Rathbones hadnt recommended or arranged the purchase of A shares. 
It didnt incur any administration costs for the custody of A shares  because custody was 
with a third party. And, other than warning her when the value of the shares reached a 
specific percentage of her overall portfolio, it didnt provide any advice about the shares.
Rathbones says it had to take the shares into account in its management of the portfolio. But 
I consider it would have needed to do this anyway, assuming Miss M had disclosed she 
owned the shares when deciding the mandate for her portfolio. Rathbones would have 
needed to construct her portfolio, and provide on-going management, taking into account her 
overall financial circumstances, including her holding of A shares.
Miss M wanted A shares to continue to be held in the portfolio for information purposes 
because she was fearful of them being lost or forgotten. Im not persuaded that the inclusion 
of these shares caused Rathbones more work or time. Overall it doesnt seem fair that 
Miss M paid 20% more in fees for essentially the same service. I think it would have been 
fair for Rathbones to exclude A shares when it calculated its management fee. In coming to 
this decision, Ive taken into account that Rathbones should have treated Miss M as a 
vulnerable consumer, because of her age and Ive considered the particular circumstances 
of this individual complaint.
Rathbones says the complaint was only raised after Miss M had died and the portfolio had 
been liquidated. But I dont find that makes a difference to my conclusion. Ive decided 
Rathbones didnt treat Miss M fairly and when the complaint was made, and by whom, 
doesnt change that conclusion.
Putting things right
Rathbones Investment Management Limited should refund the management fees applied to 
A shares from 30 January 2015 until the portfolio was liquidated or transferred. It should also 
pay the estate of Miss M 8% simple interest from the date the fees were charged to the date 
of settlement. ** HM Revenue & Customs requires Rathbones Investment Management Limited to take off 
tax from this interest. Rathbones Investment Management Limited must give the estate of 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Rathbones 
Investment Management Limited should compensate the estate of Miss M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
M to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman