DRN-2531874
The complaint
Mr S brings his complaint to us as the director of B. He is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank plc 
(HSBC) rejected the application for a business account for the company.
What happened
Mr S applied for a business account on 7 August 2020. However, he didnt hear from HSBC 
and therefore called them on 18 August to complain. HSBC responded to Mr S on 19 
August and provided an update. They said they hadnt reached a decision for the account 
and apologised for the inconvenience. He called again on 26 August and was told no 
timescale could be given.
In September, HSBC rejected the application. Mr S complained because he was 
unhappy with the decision and the delays. He explained that HSBC blamed the global 
pandemic for the delay. But he was already a personal customer so they wouldnt have 
had to do any checks on identity. He also says over the seven weeks he wasnt provided 
with an update.
HSBC responded in September 2020. HSBC were satisfied the decision was processed 
in accordance with their account opening criteria and the subsequent decline decision 
was in line with their policy. They explained that they were required to complete on-
boarding procedures.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld against HSBC. As Mr S didnt agree with the view, the case passed 
to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Declined application
HSBC are not only obligated to carry out some checks, but also entitled to carry out 
checks to satisfy themselves prior to agreeing to provide a product or service. We wont 
usually interfere with a decision not to provide a product or service, so long as that 
decisions exercised legitimately.
HSBC say they undertook both Know Your Customer and Credit Reference Agency 
checks, as well as identification and verification of address. These are the types of checks 
I would expect to see in such an application. I would also note that whilst Mr S was already 
a personal customer, HSBC would have needed to carry out checks on the company as 
this was a business account.
HSBC have also provided evidence and more detail about the nature of the checks they 
carried out. Unfortunately, this information is commercially sensitive and Im not able to 
share it with Mr S. But I do want to assure Mr S that Ive considered this information 
carefully. Having done so, it does show me that they gave due consideration to the 
information which they obtained and used this to decide not to provide the account. 
Therefore, Im content the decision was exercised legitimately.
In response to the view, Mr S said that HSBC showed us wrong information and he knows 
banks dont always provide overdrafts, but they should have offered to open a business 
account. He also added that another bank opened a business account straightaway and 
explained that the overdraft could be added after a couple of months once the account 
was operational.
Having reviewed the information provided by HSBC, Im not persuaded that on balance it 
is inaccurate. This is because there arent any apparent inconsistencies which would lead 
me to say the information is wrong or that the decision was reached unreasonably.
I also understand Mr S is concerned the overdraft element has contributed to the rejection 
of his application. However, when HSBC responded to him, they said the reasons why the 
application was rejected were commercially sensitive. This is a reasonable explanation and 
I wouldnt expect them to provide further information. This is because providing information 
about why an application is rejected could undermine the effectiveness of the checks that 
are carried out. Also, Im not persuaded that the actions of another bank and the terms they 
are willing to provide mean that HSBC acted unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr S is disappointed and wanted the business account to be provided by the 
same bank where he has his personal account for ease of use. However, HSBC carried 
out checks and took into account the information. They then made a business decision not 
to provide the account and communicated this decision to Mr S. Therefore, Im satisfied 
this decision was exercised legitimately and I cant say theyve done anything wrong here.
Delay
I appreciate Mr S made the application in early August and he didnt receive the decision 
until 16 September 2020. I recognise that this is longer than he could have expected, and 
he called them to raise his concerns. When Mr S did call them, HSBC explained about the 
volumes they were dealing with and that his application was still going through the 
regulatory checks.
Also, I can see HSBC apologised in their response to Mr S and explained why there had 
been delay. They also responded promptly when he raised his concerns. And whilst I 
would still expect an application to be reasonably processed, I must also accept that 
businesses faced difficulties as a result of having to work differently during the global 
pandemic. In all the circumstances, Im content that an apology is fair and reasonable. 
Therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything further.
  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman