DRN-4045815
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society surrounding
his request to switch his old Nationwide current account to a new Nationwide account.
What happened
At the end of December 2021, Mr W tried to switch from his old Nationwide Flex Direct
account to a new Nationwide Flex Plus account online. Towards the end of the process,
Mr W was informed that he needed to go into a Nationwide branch to complete the switch.
Mr W worked in a medical environment which meant the only way he could go into a branch
was by taking annual leave to do so, which he did on 18 January 2022. Nationwide staff
assisted Mr W with the internal switch, but Mr W later found that the mortgage direct debit on
his old Flex Direct account remained active and hadnt been transferred over to the new
account. However, Mr W also found that information about the mortgage direct debit had
been removed from his old Flex Direct account, meaning he couldnt cancel the payment.
Mr W contacted Nationwide about this, but the matter remained unresolved, meaning that for
the months of February and March 2021, Mr W had to transfer money back from his new
Flex Plus account to his old Flex Direct account to ensure his mortgage payments were met.
Mr W was then told the mortgage payments from the old Flex Direct account would be
stopped, and so set up a standing order to pay his mortgage from the Flex Plus account. But
the mortgage payments from the Flex Direct account continued to be made, meaning the
mortgage was being double paid. And because Mr W had stopped transferring money into
the old Flex Direct account, the continuing mortgage payments from that account meant that
account fell into an overdrawn position. Mr W wasnt happy about what had happened or
with the ongoing service hed received from Nationwide, and so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ws account. They didnt feel theyd made any errors regarding the
transfer of accounts and so didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Nationwide had
explained that all direct debits and standing orders would be transferred to the new account,
but that the mortgage payment wasnt a direct debit or a standing order but was classed as
an internal transfer, and so wasnt covered by the switch. As such, our investigator didnt feel
Nationwide had done anything wrong or acted unfairly and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr
W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 February 2023 as follows:
In his correspondence with this service, Mr W has referred to the current account 
switch guarantee. Id like to begin by confirming that this guarantee doesnt apply in 
this instance. This is because the current account switch guarantee only applies 
when a customer is switching accounts from one provider to a different provider, as 
would have been the case had Mr W been switching from another bank to 
Nationwide. But, in this instance, Mr W was switching from one Nationwide account 
to another Nationwide account, and as such the current account switch guarantee 
doesnt apply.
This point has been raised with Mr W during my review of this complaint. In 
response, Mr W noted that Nationwides own literature explains that when requesting 
an internal transfer from an existing Nationwide account to a new Nationwide 
account, the sort code and account number would usually remain the same. Mr W 
points out that, in this instance, the sort code and account number didnt remain the 
same, and he feels that this been the cause of many of the problems that he 
encountered.
In response to this point, Nationwide explained that the transfer of an old account to 
a new account while retaining the sort code and account number of the old account 
can only happen if the new account is created at the point of transfer. Nationwide 
then note that in this instance, Mr W opened the new Flex Plus account in December 
2021 but didnt visit branch to affect the transfer of payments from one account to the 
other until the following month  so that the new Flex Plus account and old Flex 
Direct account existed simultaneously, so that the new account couldnt have the 
same account number as the old.
Nationwide further explain that this meant that when Mr W visited Nationwides 
branch in January 2022, he wasnt instructing a transfer from one Nationwide 
account to a freshly opened new Nationwide account, but rather was instructing an 
internal switch between two already existing Nationwide accounts, with already 
existing different account numbers.
But it seems clear that Mr W was wanting to switch to the new Flex Plus account 
while simultaneously closing his old Flex Direct account  which would have, in 
effect, been an upgrading of the account, allowing the account number to remain the 
same  rather than the opening of a new account using a different account number.
What isnt clear is whether the need to upgrade the account, rather than open a new
account, was understood by Mr W, or what actions he took when he first attempted to 
switch to a Flex Plus account in December 2021.
But given that Mr W did receive the automated notice that he would need to complete 
the account switch in branch  which Nationwide have confirmed would only be 
provided if a new account had already been opened, and wouldnt need to have been 
given had an account upgrade been requested  I feel its more likely than not that 
Mr W didnt request the account upgrade that he did in fact want, possibly because 
he didnt understand that it was an account upgrade that he wanted and believed the 
current account switch guarantee
applied to what he was requesting.
Ultimately, however, I feel this point is somewhat moot, given that Nationwide have
confirmed to this service that it should have been the case that the mortgage internal
transfer should have been moved over to the Flex Plus account when the Direct 
Debits and Standing Orders were moved over when Mr W went into branch. This is a 
conclusion that I also draw, as it seems illogical and unreasonable to me that a bank wouldnt transfer over internal transfers between its own accounts when assisting a 
customer move their primary banking from one of their own accounts to another of 
their own accounts.
This means that it should never have been the case that Mr W encountered the 
difficulties that he did here, including that he should never have had to transfer 
money back to the old Flex Direct account and that the Flex Direct account should 
have never fallen into arrears when he stopped making those transfers. Instead, what 
should have happened was that Mr Ws mortgage payment should have stopped 
being taken from the Flex Direct account and started being taken from the new Flex 
Plus account, following Mr Ws visit to branch.
As such, Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Ws favour on that basis 
and instructing Nationwide to take the corrective action necessary to restore Mr W to 
the position he should be in, had the internal transfer been moved over to the Flex 
Plus account when it should have been.
This includes reimbursing to Mr Ws account any interest, fees or charges that may 
have been incorrectly and unfairly applied to either account. Nationwide must also 
ensure that any mortgage overpayments are reimbursed to Mr Ws Flex Plus account 
along with 8% simple interest on those mortgage overpayment amounts. This is 
unless those mortgage overpayments have already been addressed, such as by Mr 
W not making a payment to his mortgage for a different month, or unless Mr W gives 
his permission for them to remain applied to the mortgage. And Nationwide must also 
remove any adverse credit file reporting that may have occurred on either account 
because of what happened here.
Finally, my provisional instructions will also include that Nationwide must make a 
payment of £500 to Mr W as compensation for the upset and inconvenience Im 
satisfied that Mr W has incurred here, which I feel fairly compensates Mr W for the 
significant impact Im satisfied this matter has had on him despite his reasonable 
attempts to resolve it.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr W and Nationwide the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue a 
final decision. Mr W confirmed that he was happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas Nationwide did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mr Ws favour on the basis 
explained above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold this complaint on that basis 
accordingly.
Putting things right
Nationwide must take the corrective action necessary to restore Mr W to the position he 
should be in, had the internal transfer been moved over to the Flex Plus account when it 
should have been.
This includes reimbursing to Mr Ws account any interest, fees or charges that may have 
been applied to either account. 
Nationwide must also ensure that any mortgage overpayments are reimbursed to Mr Ws 
Flex Plus account along with 8% simple interest on those overpayment amounts. This is 
unless those mortgage overpayments have already been addressed, such as by Mr W not making a payment to his mortgage for a different month, or unless Mr W gives his 
permission for them to remain applied to the mortgage.
Nationwide must also remove any adverse credit file reporting that may have occurred on 
either account because of what happened here.
Finally, Nationwide must make a payment of £500 to Mr W as compensation for the upset 
and inconvenience that Im satisfied that hes unfairly incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman