DRN-1957480
The complaint
Mr G complains that he experienced poor customer service from Santander UK Plc when he 
sought to arrange a new mortgage deal.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr G phoned Santander to discuss changing his mortgage. He waited in a 
caller queue then, when he was connected, he says the call handler was rude to him. Mr G 
asked to be put through to her manager. He spoke to the manager but wasn't satisfied with 
her response. There followed a series of exchanges, by phone and letter, between Mr G and 
the bank about the customer service hed received. 
Mr G wasn't happy with the way the banks complaints department dealt with the matter, so it 
was reviewed again. Santander apologised for the length of the wait times on the phone, but 
said it couldn't agree that Mr G had been given poor service on the calls.
Mr G referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that the banks staff had acted 
reasonably. He listened to recordings of the phone calls and didn't think the staff had given 
Mr G poor service. And the investigator thought the banks apology for the wait times was a 
fair way to address that part of Mr Gs complaint. 
The investigator therefore didn't think Santander needed to do anything further.
Mr G didn't agree with the investigators conclusions. He said the investigator hadn't listened 
to all the calls and hadn't taken into account the stress the bank had caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration with the time he spent waiting in call queues. The bank 
acknowledged that some wait times can be longer than others, depending on the volume of 
customers calling. Santander told Mr G that it was truly sorry about his difficulties getting 
through, which I think is a fair response to this aspect of Mr Gs complaint.
Ive listened to recordings of the calls. Im satisfied they include the calls that Mr G referred 
to in his written complaint to the bank. In particular, they include the initial call which 
prompted Mr Gs complaint, plus the chain of conversations which followed as Mr G asked to 
be transferred to other people, and his conversations with the complaints department. So Im 
satisfied that the call recordings Ive heard are those at the heart of Mr Gs complaint.
Having listened to the calls, I dont think Mr G was treated rudely by the banks staff. In my 
view, the staff were polite, patient and kind, and did their best to help Mr G. In particular, I dont think the call handler in the initial call was rude. Nor do I think it was unreasonable for 
her to request Mr Gs account number in order to take forward his mortgage enquiry. 
In one call to the complaints department, when Mr G declined to give his name, the 
representative wouldn't take the call any further. I dont think that was an unreasonable 
action by the representative in the circumstances.
Mr G says we should take into account the stress he suffered. Its clear that he did become 
very upset, both when asked for his name and details, and when the bank staff didnt do 
some things he told them to do. I accept that he has strong feelings about the complaint. But 
I think all of the questions the bank staff asked Mr G were reasonable, and they responded 
politely, professionally and reasonably to Mr Gs own requests. I therefore dont hold the 
bank responsible for causing any stress. 
For these reasons, I dont require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman