DRN-3201605
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Accord Mortgages Limited didnt treat them fairly when they 
applied to port their mortgage. They ask that it refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) 
they paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Accord in 2013. They took out a fixed rate product in 
2018. This included an ERC if they repaid the mortgage before September 2023. However, 
Mr and Mrs S would avoid having to pay the ERC if they ported the mortgage product to a 
new mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted Accord in mid-2020 to ask about porting. Mr and Mrs S said they 
were told porting on a like for like basis would be no problem.
Mr and Mrs S found a property to buy and accepted an offer for their property. When they 
contacted Accord it said they needed an appointment with a mortgage adviser, for which 
they had to wait about two weeks. Mrs S said she found this worrying, which increased when 
she contacted a mortgage broker and was told porting wasnt as simple as transferring their 
mortgage but would require a new application. 
Accord then contacted Mr and Mrs S to say that it couldnt proceed with the application while 
Mrs S was on furlough. The mortgage adviser didnt call them, despite Mrs S asking to 
continue with the appointment. Mr and Mrs S say:
They were misled during the initial appointment. They should have been told that porting 
was subject to a new application and an affordability assessment.
Despite raising concerns, they werent told that porting would be an issue. 
They were led to believe theyd be able to port, despite Mr S being self-employed and 
Mrs S being on furlough, due to being loyal existing customers without any missed 
payments or payment holidays.
They were not given the opportunity to discuss their circumstances with a mortgage 
advisor. 
By the time they were told they couldnt port, theyd committed to their sale and purchase 
and incurred legal fees and other costs, as well as spending time looking for a property.
Our investigator said it wasnt unfair for Accord to update its lending policy to take account of 
circumstances during the Covid-19 pandemic, and the uncertainty this created. He said the 
mortgage offer set out the ERC and said porting was subject to meeting lending criteria at 
the time.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mrs S said they checked several times with Accord that it would 
be able to port the mortgage. She said a number of mortgage advisers have told her that 
Accord should have told her at the outset that porting wasnt possible due to Mr S being 
newly self-employed. 
Mrs S said it was wrong for Accord to dismiss them only due to her being on furlough, 
although she suspects Mr S being self-employed was also a factor. She said their new 
lender based its affordability assessment solely on her furloughed income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S took out a fixed interest rate product in 2018. The product offer set out the 
terms, including the ERC that applied until 2023. I think the ERC is set out clearly. Mr and 
Mrs S agreed to this when they took out the product. The product offer says the ERC isnt 
payable if the product is ported. It says porting depends on you and your replacement 
property meet our lending rules at that time.
Mr and Mrs S repaid the mortgage in November 2020, during the product term. Accord 
applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. 
However, Mr and Mrs S say its unfair for Accord to apply the ERC because it misled them 
about being able to port the mortgage.
Did Accord mislead Mr and Mrs S about porting?
Accord provided recordings of its calls with Mr and Mrs S. Mrs S contacted Accord in June 
2020 as theyd had a valuation and were about to put their property on the market for sale. 
Theyd seen a property they liked and Mrs S wanted to check what they could afford to 
borrow. Accord made some eligibility checks and said it would book an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser to check affordability.
On the second call, Mrs S said Mr S was newly self-employed within the same industry. 
Mrs S said she was on furlough and would be back at work from the end of July 2020. They 
intended to repay existing commitments. Accord said they couldnt include Mr Ss income in 
the affordability assessment, but might be able to do so once hed been self-employed for six 
months. On this basis, Accord said it would consider porting on a like for like basis, but not 
offer additional lending. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted Accord again on 19 August 2020 after having an offer accepted on 
a property. Accord made an appointment for them with a mortgage adviser on 3 September. 
In the meantime, Mrs S called Accord again to check it would port the mortgage. Accord told 
her that like for like porting had been approved in principle, but was subject to the application 
process including affordability and credit checks and evidence of income. It told Mrs S that it 
was likely that it would under appeal include some of Mr Ss income.
Accords lending criteria changed from 1 September 2020. It no longer accepted applications 
from customers on furlough. Mrs Ss furlough had been extended to November. Accord 
called Mr and Mrs S on 2 September 2020 and said it was cancelling their appointment with 
a mortgage adviser as it wouldnt be able to lend to them. 
Ive read Accords internal notes and listened to the calls between its mortgage adviser and 
underwriter. I think Accord was consistent about how it would treat Mr Ss self-employed 
income. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S were disappointed. However, I dont think its fair to 
say that Accord misled them when it said it would consider a like for like port in June 2020. I 
think the information it gave them was correct at the time. The reason Accord later said it 
couldnt port the mortgage was due to Mrs S still being on furlough and its change of policy 
about this.Mr S asked if Accord could use his projected income and reduce the amount they borrowed. 
Accord did consider this. However, with Mrs S on furlough and Mr S not having even a year 
of income it said it couldnt lend.  
Did Accord treat Mr and Mrs S fairly?
Accord called Mr and Mrs S on 2 September 2020 and said it was cancelling their 
appointment with a mortgage adviser as it wouldnt be able to lend to them. Mrs S said they 
argued to keep the appointment. However, the mortgage adviser didnt call them. They 
waited for the call and then called Accord, to find out what had happened.
Accord apologised for this and paid £65 for the inconvenience. Mrs S says they felt 
diminished when Accords mortgage adviser didnt call them, to go through their 
circumstances and explain what had gone wrong. I understand that Mrs S was upset, and 
felt they hadnt had a fair opportunity to explain their circumstances. 
In fairness, I have to take into account that this application wouldnt have been successful, 
and Accord had called and explained this. Accord had a number of customers needing to 
speak to mortgage advisers. While Mrs S says it hadnt taken their individual circumstances 
into account I dont think thats fair. I think it did consider whether it could lend, despite their 
circumstances at that time. And Accords notes say it spoke to Mrs S on 8 September to 
explain why it didnt take the application further.
Is it fair to require Accord to refund the ERC?
Mr and Mrs S contacted Accord in mid-August, after finding a property to buy. They wanted 
to start their porting application, but the first available appointment with a mortgage adviser 
was early September. While I can understand this was frustrating, I need to take into 
account the circumstances at the time. There was a wait for appointments due to the number 
of customers needing to speak with mortgage advisers. Its unlikely the outcome would have 
been different if an earlier appointment had been available, given the change in lending 
policy on 3 September 2020.
Accord told Mr and Mrs S it couldnt progress their application on 2 September 2020, after its 
change in lending policy the previous day. I dont think Accord caused unnecessary delays in 
telling Mr and Mrs S it couldnt lend. And from what Mrs S has said, theyd already started to 
look elsewhere as they were worried that Accord wouldnt port the mortgage due to Mr S 
being self-employed.
From what Mr and Mrs S told Accord it seems they hadnt exchanged contracts on their sale 
and purchase before they were told that Accord wouldnt port the mortgage. So they werent 
legally committed to go ahead. They had the option to wait and make a porting application 
after Mrs S returned to work from furlough. I can understand Mr and Mrs S wanted to go 
ahead with their sale and purchase, but it was their choice to do so knowing theyd have to 
pay the ERC. 
In the circmstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Accord to refund the 
ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman