DRN-1542836
The complaint
Mr M says The Equitable Life Assurance Society has unfairly refused his claim for total and 
permanent disability benefit. 
What happened
Mr M took out a reviewable unit-linked critical illness policy with Equitable Life in April 1999. 
It provides him with £100,000 of critical illness cover, along with total and permanent 
disability (TPD) benefit. The policy was sold to him by an Equitable Life broker who visited 
his home after Mr M contacted it directly. Mr M says he did so because his wife had recently 
passed away and he needed security for his small children.  
Mr M took out a differing critical illness policy approximately twelve years later with a 
different insurer. This time he did so using an independent financial adviser, after his 
circumstances had changed.  
In late 2017, Mr M sought medical help after suffering with weakness in his legs. A tumour 
was discovered on his spine, which was later diagnosed as a type of spinal cord 
abnormality. This led him to undergoing numerous complex surgeries during 2018. He had 
to take many months off work. Mr M is employed as a type of doctor on a sole trader basis. 
During his multiple surgeries, Mr M was gravely ill. He has since made some recovery, but 
he has sadly been left with significant disability because of his spinal damage. Mr M isnt 
able to walk, has motor and balance problems, sensory loss, neuropathy and continence 
issues. He requires permanent assistance from carers.
Mr M made a claim to both insurers in 2018. Initially Equitable Life explained Mr M had not 
suffered from any listed critical illness under his policy terms. It therefore said it would look at 
a TPD claim instead.
Mr M said his other insurer had paid a critical illness claim in full in June 2018.
Equitable Life said it couldnt pay the TPD claim because the policy wording required that a 
disability persisted for the minimum of one year, meaning it would revisit the claim from 
December 2018. After the deferred period had expired, it still said it was unable to pay a 
claim. This was because Mr M had gone back to limited employment, with the help of his 
carers.
Mr M complained. He said his claim was unfairly refused and Equitable Life ought to show 
compassion given his particularly difficult circumstances. Further, he felt the policy had been 
mis-sold to him as the adviser shouldve told him that Equitable Life intended to stop offering 
critical illness cover within a few months.   
Equitable Life wasnt willing to change it view on the claim. It issued a response to the 
complaint in November 2019. It did not feel Mr M had been mis-sold his policy merely 
because a claim had been refused now. Equitable Life said Mr M had been issued a key 
features document and a full policy booklet in 1999 and these clearly set out the terms 
applying to the policy. It said it reasonably expected Mr M to have read the terms at the time.Further, it said in the interests of treating all of its policyholders fairly, it would not be 
equitable to allow a change to the terms and conditions of a policy, once a contract was in 
place. Therefore, the terms remained as they were when Mr M chose to purchase the policy.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He said he felt Equitable Life was unreasonably 
using outdated terms as a means to avoiding his claim. Using current industry guidance, Mr 
M says he is incapable of performing any activity of daily living by himself.
He also noted how Equitable Life stopped selling critical illness cover just a matter of months 
after he had started his policy. Mr M said it is merely because he operates his own business 
that he has been able to consider any small amount of work, but he is unemployable 
anywhere else. He also noted that he has returned to work in his limited capacity, but he has 
done so acting strictly against medical advice.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but he did not think it could succeed. He 
said that a valid claim was based on a policyholder being unable to perform any gainful 
occupation, but Mr M had gone back to work, albeit in a restricted capacity.
The investigator also looked at some additional points Mr M had made regarding the sale of 
his policy and the terms. He felt Equitable Life was fair to assess Mr M on the policy terms 
as they stood at the commencement of the policy. Finally, he said that he felt Equitable Life 
had complied with the industry guidance (the statement of best practice) from the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) that applied at the time Mr M took out his policy. The 
standards Mr M referred to when he looked at activities of daily living were for policies taken 
out from 2018 onwards.
Mr M disagreed. He said he took the view that insurers ought to update their policies in line 
with the relevant ABI guidance. He also made several additional points:
 
he has been disabled for over two and a half years, since the first of nine surgeries 
on his back;
his spinal injury is permanent and will not recover;
he is unable to complete all six of the tasks set out in the TPD wording on the ABIs 
Guide to Minimum Standards for Critical Illness Cover from 2018;
that guidance is the latest available to insurers and it should apply to him now;
he has paid premiums for 22 years for this very eventuality;
his other insurer used ABI guidance and paid the claim straight away;
the only reason Equitable Life has failed to adhere to the recent ABI guidance is 
because it stopped offering critical illness policies just a matter of months after he 
took his out;
if Equitable Life had sold its policies to another provider, theyd have updated it and a 
claim would be payable;
he is unemployable elsewhere at his age (62) and level of incapacity;
an ex-gratia payment should be made now;
why should Equitable Life be allowed to operate outdated criteria when all other 
insurers use up to date guidance? 
Equitable Life said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, Id like to pass my best wishes to Mr M. I know that he has been 
incredibly ill. I dont underestimate the impact that has on him and I realise and that he is 
now disabled because of his spinal issues.
That being said, I cannot simply order Equitable Life to pay Mr Ms claim on a discretionary 
basis as Mr M has asked for, or because he is disabled. Neither party disputes that Mr M is 
disabled. The reason Mr Ms claim has been refused is because Equitable Life says Mr Ms 
circumstances do not meet the requirements set out within his policy terms. It is the 
application of those terms that Ill be considering when looking at whether Equitable Life has 
behaved fairly or not.
Mr Ms policy says:
 
Totally and permanently disabled means:
The total permanent and irreversible disability before age 65 and the consequent 
inability to perform any gainful occupation whatsoever. Such disability must be 
established for a continuous period of 365 days. No benefit will be payable if at any 
time the Life Assured is shown to be infected by any Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
or antibodies to any such virus.
Equitable Life hasnt been able to process a claim because it says Mr M remains in gainful 
employment. Mr M says he is clearly totally and permanently disabled and therefore it is only 
right that a claim payment be made to him on that basis.  
I realise how strongly Mr M feels about the matter, but I agree with Equitable Life. The policy 
wording above is clear that a person must have a total and irreversible (i.e. permanent) 
disability and this must consequently render the policyholder unable to perform any gainful 
occupation whatsoever. 
Mr M has gone back to work in a very limited capacity. I appreciate he has mitigating 
reasons for doing so, primarily because many patients depend on the particular service he 
provides in the community. But, that is a matter for Mr M and not something Equitable Life 
can alter. It has a duty to pay a claim and act reasonably by doing so where the policy terms 
are met  and the policy terms expressly say a claim is only payable if the policyholder 
cannot work in any job. Mr M is currently working and therefore no claim is payable. 
I also do not take the same view that Mr M has regarding the ABI guidance. Firstly, that 
another insurer has chosen to pay a TPD claim to him has no bearing on this complaint or 
the decision of Equitable Life. That policy had a differing code applying at the time (likely 
either 2006 or 2011), because the policy was sold many years later. As Ive said above, what 
I have looked at is whether Equitable Life has made a reasonable decision on the policy 
terms in the contract of insurance between itself and Mr M, and noting the guidance 
available at that time.
Further, the ABI Guide Mr M refers to is not applicable here. The ABI issues Codes of 
Practice (and since 2018, Guides to Minimum Standards) for critical illness policies usually 
every few years. These documents set out model wordings for insurers to choose from when 
providing critical illness cover. Aside from several core conditions (including heart attack, 
cancer and stroke), an insurer can decide what further conditions it is willing to include on a 
critical illness offering.The correct way to look at these codes and guides is to see which is applicable at the time of 
the sale. That is fair because the codes are revised and some model critical illnesses have 
had the wording become more stringent over time  this is due to medical developments in 
certain fields meaning some diseases have become less serious or carry a lower risk than 
they might have done before.
And, to apply the most recent code at the time of a claim could lead a policyholder to having 
his or her claim refused. An example of this is the definition of cancer, which has been 
revised across several codes to now include a specified level of severity (and exclusions) for 
certain types of cancer. For example, in older versions of the code (and therefore policy 
terms) the specified severity for prostate cancer was not present. If an applicant with a 
longstanding policy made a claim for prostate cancer histologically classified as having a 
Gleason score of 7 or above, this would be refused using 2018 model wording but refused 
using the 1999 wording. 
For that reason, it is right to look at whichever code was in existence at the time of the sale, 
if there was one. I therefore agree with out investigator that the relevant Code of Practice 
that Equitable Life should have adhered to was dated April 1999.  
But, even if I accepted Mr Ms argument and looked at the definitions set out in the most 
recent 2018 code, I still dont agree that Equitable Life is responsible for a claim. Though 
there is no longer a TPD definition encompassing any occupation, the guide still gives 
model wording for four types of TPD definition, unable [before age x] to do your own 
occupation ever again, unable [before age x] to do a suited occupation ever again, unable 
[before age x] to do specified work tasks ever again, or unable [before age x] to look after 
yourself ever again. Mr M has said the last two of these apply to him, because the 
definitions set out six tasks of working or daily living, and he says that he cannot perform any 
of the six. 
We do not know, if using the 2018 Code, which if any of the TPD wordings Equitable Life 
may have issued in the policy terms. The first two both require that a person cannot perform 
an occupation (their own, or a suited one) ever again. This is a similar standard that 
Equitable Life is applying now, by measuring Mr M against his ability to perform any 
occupation. As Ive said above, that Mr M is still able to work in some capacity is the reason 
that Equitable Life has fairly refused his claim.    
As an aside, I note Mr M has raised concerns about the sale of the policy. Specifically, he 
says that the adviser ought to have told him that Equitable Life intended to stop offering 
policies of his nature in the near future. I disagree that because Equitable Life stopped 
offering policies to new customers some months later that this means Mr Ms policy mis-sold 
to him.
Mr M approached Equitable Life with a specific need for critical illness cover, which was 
provided to him on a whole-of-life reviewable basis. That these types of policies are less 
common now doesnt mean that Mr Ms needs were not met at the time. Having looked at 
the sales documentation, I believe Mr M was sold cover that was appropriate for him. He had 
other types of insurance, but specifically wanted to ensure a lump sum could be paid to him 
if he fell ill because he had sadly been recently widowed and had a care responsibility for his 
young children. The policy met that requirement and it continues to provide cover for the 
conditions set out in the policy terms. 
As it is, Mr Ms circumstances do not meet his policy terms such that a claim is due now.
Should Mr M give up his employment at any time before age 65, then he could pursue a further claim with Equitable Life. But to date, I dont believe Equitable Life has behaved 
unfairly in refusing the claim, once Mr Ms disability was established as having lasted a year 
or more. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Ms circumstances, I cannot uphold his complaint. That is 
because Equitable Life has reasonably refused his TPD claim since it does not meet the 
terms of his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman