DRN-2145763
The complaint
Mr J complains about delays caused by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) when he 
applied for a term extension to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr J has a mortgage with RBS. In March 2020, he applied for a three-month payment 
deferral due to financial difficulties caused by the Coronavirus pandemic. 
In June 2020, Mr J spoke with RBS about extending the term of his mortgage. He says in 
this call he was told that a five-year extension was agreed. When he found out this wasnt 
the case, he complained to RBS. In his complaint, he also said he was unhappy with how he 
was spoken to by RBSs agent in a follow up call and that he had to go through an income 
and expenditure form, even though it was clear an extension couldnt be granted.
RBS didnt agree that it had offered a term extension during the call with Mr J. It also 
disagreed with Mr Js opinion that the agent had been rude to him. So, Mr J referred his 
complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. She listened to the calls Mr J had 
with RBS and didnt agree that Mr J had been told a five-year term extension was agreed. 
Nor did she think that the agent was rude or unprofessional. She didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me to consider and make a final decision on.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Mr Js original complaint to us was that RBS wouldnt agree to extend his mortgage. I 
can see at the end of last year, after our investigator had issued her opinion, RBS agreed to 
extend the mortgage until Mr J reached the age of 70. Mr J has confirmed to our investigator 
that this part of his complaint has been resolved. So, I wont consider it further here. But hes 
told our investigator that he remains unhappy with the time taken for the extension to be 
granted. So, Im going to focus my decision on that.
Ive listened to the first call Mr J had with RBS. This was a long call and Mr J had a number 
of questions regarding the process and applying for a term extension. But having listened to 
it, Im satisfied that the call handler explained that Mr J needed to wait for his payment to be 
recalculated, following the payment deferral of three months, before he would be able to 
apply for a term extension. And during this initial call the agent made clear hed need to call 
back once this recalculation had been done. 
Mr J says a five-year term extension was agreed by the agent. But I havent heard the term 
of five years mentioned by the agent at all during this call. It seems to me that there were 
certain points during the call when Mr J was confused with what was happening, and he 
asked a number of questions. And I think this meant that at times RBSs agent mayve been 
confused as well. However, at the end of the call, she says We have not agreed a term 
extension today. As Ive said, Mr J mayve been confused during this call, but I dont agree 
that he was promised that the term extension had been agreed, and I think he was given 
enough information to explain that this request still needed to be considered at a later date. 
Mr J also says that RBS wasted his time completing an income and expenditure form during 
this call. He says this as he wanted to extend the term on the interest only parts of his 
mortgage, and later found out this wasnt possible. During this call, I can hear the agent 
telling Mr J that extending the interest only part of the mortgage wouldnt affect his mortgage 
payments and that hed need to be looking to extend the repayment parts of his mortgage to 
reduce his payment. Given his objective was to reduce his payments, its unlikely that a term 
extension on the interest only element alone wouldve been considered, and this wouldnt 
reduce the monthly payments anyway. And having listened to the call, Im satisfied this 
wasnt agreed.  
The agent also explained to Mr J, midway through the call, that the term extension wouldnt 
be agreed in that call as the new payment was yet to be calculated. But it was Mr J who 
insisted that the income and expenditure form be completed at this time, so that he wouldnt 
need to do it in a future call. So, I cant agree that RBS wasted Mr Js time by completing the 
income and expenditure form given it was his request to do it then.
Ive also been provided with a copy of the call in which Mr J says the agent was 
unprofessional and rude to him. Ive listened to this and I dont agree. Mr J was very 
challenging during this call, and was clearly very upset about the fact that the term extension 
hadnt been agree. And he regularly talked over the agent. However, I think she remained 
professional during the call. So, I dont agree RBSs agent acted incorrectly during this call.
It seems that when Mr J got in touch with RBS a few months after this the mortgage 
extension was agreed (even though it was outside of RBSs normal criteria). Im pleased to 
hear that Mr J has got the outcome he wanted in this regard. And overall, whilst I understand 
Mr Js frustrations regarding the delay in his mortgage extension being agreed, I think RBS 
clearly explained its process to him, and I dont think RBS caused any unnecessary delays. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman