DRN-4251794
The complaint
Mr S complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as Ratesetter) unfairly brought about 
an unaffordable loan for him.
What happened
Ratesetter operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr S being 
given a loan in June 2015. The loan was for £2,753.76. The agreement had a 24-month 
term, an APR of 19.9% and the total amount of £3,568.56, including interest and other 
charges of £814.80, was due to be repaid in monthly instalments of £148.69.
Mr S complained to Ratesetter saying the loan shouldnt have been approved. Ratesetter 
didnt agree and said Mr Ss application met their minimum lending criteria. Mr S referred his 
complaint to us which was reviewed by one of our investigators. He thought Ratesetter 
hadnt done anything wrong or had treated Mr S unfairly. So, he didnt recommend Mr Ss 
complaint be upheld. 
As Mr S disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. 
Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S 
could afford to make the monthly payments before bringing about this loan for him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information they gather and what they do to verify it  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think they needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that they didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. 
Ive thought about what Mr S and Ratesetter have said. As I understand it, this was Mr Ss 
first application with Ratesetter. Ratesetter asked Mr S for details about his income and 
carried out a credit check which showed Mr S had some existing credit commitments, with 
no significant repayment issues on them. The first thing for me to say is about Ratesetters 
checks is that I dont think that this was a case of Ratesetter simply accepting an over-
optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face value. As Ive explained, 
Ratesetters credit searches did show that Mr S had existing debts. But I dont think that this 
in itself demonstrated that Mr S wouldnt be able to make the monthly repayments to this 
loan. 
Equally, as this appears to have been Mr Ss first loan with Ratesetter and it was for a 
relatively low amount with relatively low repayments, Im satisfied they were reasonably 
entitled to believe that they wouldnt be increasing Mr Ss existing indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. I accept that Mr S says he struggled to make the 
payments. Im sorry to hear that. But Ratesetter could only make a reasonable decision 
based on the information they had available at the time. All Ratesetter could do was take 
reasonable steps to ensure the payments would be affordable which, for reasons Ive 
already explained, Im satisfied they did. 
I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont think Ratesetter did 
anything wrong when bringing about Mr Ss loan. The key thing here is that they carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks which suggested the repayments would be affordable. 
Overall, I dont think that Ratesetter treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when bringing 
about his agreement. As this is the case and while I sympathise with Mr S for any difficulties 
he might have gone on to have, Im not upholding his complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and hell at 
least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
In closing, I understand that Mr S is unhappy that he was asked to pay an outstanding 
instalment on this loan. I gather though that Mr Ss account was assigned to a third-party, 
who corresponded with him about this. As the third-party is regulated in their own right and is 
responsible for their own actions, Mr S will have to direct his concerns to them in the first 
instance.
My final decision
For reasons Ive set about above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman