DRN-3232703
The complaint
Miss L says Everyday Loans Limited (Everyday) irresponsibly lent to her. She says she 
already had a large amount of other credit and she was trapped in a cycle of using high 
interest loan companies. She says that Everyday should have seen this and not provided her 
with this loan.
 What happened
This complaint is about one loan Everyday provided to Miss L in March 2018. She borrowed 
£15,000 and she was due to repay £471.78 over 48 months. She would repay a total of 
£22,396.32. At the time of complaint Miss L was still repaying this loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ls complaint. She thought that Everyday shouldnt have given 
the loan to Miss L. This was because she already had a large amount of other credit and so 
it was likely she would need to borrow again to make the loan repayments. There were signs 
of repayment problems. 
Everyday disagreed. It said Miss Ls overdraft usage fees and the amounts she was 
repaying to a debt recovery service were small. The loan was taken to consolidate some 
other debt and it improved Miss L circumstances by reducing her monthly repayments.  
As no agreement was reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss L would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, 
would those checks have shown that Miss L wouldve been able to do so?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Everyday did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss L and 
that as a result she lost out, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss L. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Miss L undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss L. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
Everyday has provided evidence to show that before lending it looked some bank 
statements. It also did a credit and employment check and asked Miss L her about her 
income and expenditure in some telephone calls. And these checks seemed to be fairly 
detailed. Based on those checks Everyday thought it was fair to lend. 
Its not disputed that Miss L had taken large amount of other credit before she took this loan. 
Some of this was high cost credit. She also had significant credit card balances, a mortgage 
and a secured loan. Everyday says that this new loan was to help Miss L repay this lending 
and reduce her outgoings. Ive looked to see if what Everyday says is reasonable. 
I do accept that this consolidation may have led to Miss L paying a lower amount each 
month. But it seems that the loan was primarily arranged to bring together three other high 
cost credit loans. The settlement balances on these was around £13,400. 
But as a starting point these loans were similar products, and Miss L wouldve already paid 
some of the interest and capital towards them. So, this new lending would lead to her 
effectively starting again with this money and it would be likely to cost her more overall. So, Ive looked to see if consolidating this debt wouldve made enough of a difference to Miss L 
to make it worthwhile, despite this.  
Having looked at everything Ive been provided I dont think it did. Its not disputed that Miss 
L had a reasonable income as Everyday recorded. But Miss L had a significant amount of 
debt. She had a mortgage with a value of £113,000 and a further secured loan of around 
£20,000. She had high cost credit loans with balances of £21,000 and store and credit cards 
of £7,000. 
And Miss L was clearly having problems repaying the debt she had, and she indicated this in 
one of the telephone calls she had with Everyday. But the new loans were only a minor 
change to her debt arrangements and, as Ive said above, they werent likely to be the most 
cost effective way to repay her debt.  
So, I dont think its reasonable to say that the information Everyday had makes it safe to say 
Miss L would be able to repay enough of her existing debts for this loan to have made a 
difference. Put as simply as I can, she already owed too much for this new loan to do this. It 
looks like her financial situation would have remained precarious after this loan. 
So, I dont think that Everyday could say with any degree of confidence that taking new loan 
would allow Miss L to make the loan repayments sustainably. And I dont think it was 
responsible to lend. 
Ive also thought about whether Everyday acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Everyday needs to put things right as I think it irresponsibly lent this loan.
Putting things right
Everyday should now:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Miss L as payments towards the capital amount of 
£15,000.
If Miss L has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded 
to with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss L.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to take off tax from this interest. Everyday must 
give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint. Everyday Loans Limited 
should put things right for Miss L as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman