DRN-3832702
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide him with 
appropriate information or service when he asked to put some pension benefits into payment 
in 2021.
What happened
Mr H has held pension savings with Prudential (albeit previously with Scottish Amicable) 
since 1981. Those pension savings were divided into seven equal segments. Over the years 
Mr H had taken benefits from three segments, leaving four segments still invested.
Mr H has explained that his current preferred approach is to take benefits from one segment 
each year. Taking those benefits provides Mr H with a pension commencement lump sum 
(PCLS  generally known as tax free cash) that he uses each month to supplement his 
income. And he receives some additional annuity income to supplement that he is receiving 
from his earlier segments.
So, in August 2021 Mr H requested quotations from Prudential showing the value of his 
pension savings. There was then an extended period in which either no information was 
provided, or incorrect valuations were issued, before being corrected shortly afterwards. 
Ultimately it wasnt until November 2021 that Mr H was in a position to proceed with taking 
this part of his pension benefits.
But Prudential then made a further error. It encashed all four remaining segments of Mr Hs 
pension savings, paying him the PCLS, and transferring the remainder to the firm it had 
appointed to provide the annuity benefits. Prudential did, however, identify that error shortly 
afterwards, recalling the incorrect payments, and replacing them with corrected amounts 
representing just one segment of Mr Hs pension savings.
Over a number of response letters, Prudential has accepted that its service fell short of what 
Mr H might expect. It has paid Mr H a total of £725 for the inconvenience he has been 
caused. It has compensated him by paying an additional three months annuity payments to 
reflect the delay in the annuity being set up. And it has paid Mr H interest on both those 
delayed annuity payments, and the delayed PCLS payment.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that Prudential 
had reasonably identified the errors it had made when dealing with Mr Hs requests, and that 
the compensation it had paid to Mr H was fair and reasonable. So she didnt think that 
Prudential needed to do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. He asked the investigator to provide him with 
evidence that the valuations Prudential had provided him on his pension benefits had been 
correct. Our investigator sought confirmation from Prudential about those valuations but 
explained to Mr H that she was unable to provide any additional validation. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In the earlier part of this decision I have only summarised, at a very high level, the extent of 
the communications between Mr H and Prudential. I dont do this to, in any way, lessen the 
problems that Mr H has faced. Our investigator has set out in some detail all the 
communications that took place, and there seems little dispute from either party about that 
timeline. I think it is clear that Prudential has failed to provide an acceptable level of service 
to Mr H over a number of months.
Given the general consensus about what has happened, and bearing in mind my role as an 
arbiter of specific complaints rather than a regulator, I see little benefit in a detailed review of 
the communications between Mr H and Prudential. I think it is clear that the payment of 
Mr Hs pension was delayed. And I think that delay was due to the failings of Prudential. So 
what is most important for me to consider is the impacts of those delays, and whether they 
have caused Mr H to suffer a financial loss.
Earlier in this decision I briefly set out some of the timings that were applicable to this 
complaint. From those I think it is reasonable to conclude that there was a period of around 
three months when Prudentials actions delayed Mr H from putting the relevant segment of 
his pension benefits into payment. It is during that period of time that I should consider 
whether any losses have occurred.
By Mr H putting his pension benefits into payment, two things would happen. He would 
receive a PCLS  a lump sum payment that Mr H says he would then use over the following 
twelve months to supplement his income. And he would start to receive an additional annuity 
that would be paid for the remainder of his life. I will deal with each in turn.
The delay to the payment of the PCLS didnt mean that Mr H wouldnt receive that payment, 
or that its value would have changed. So Prudentials delays havent resulted in Mr H 
receiving a lower PCLS payment  he hasnt lost out on the capital value of that payment. 
But there was a period of around three months when Mr H lost the opportunity to use those 
funds. In situations such as these I would normally award interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on 
the delayed payment. And I can see that is precisely what Prudential has already paid to 
Mr H. So I dont think any further compensation is warranted in respect of the delayed PCLS 
payment.Prudential has confirmed with the annuity provider that the annuity Mr H has received is the 
same that he would have received had his application been completed three months earlier. 
But, as I explained above, the annuity is paid for life. So a delayed start to the annuity will 
never be recovered  those payments will simply be lost. So in the case of the annuity I think 
it reasonable to conclude that Mr H has lost out on receiving his normal annuity payment for 
the first three months.
But, Prudential has also paid Mr H compensation equivalent to those three annuity payments 
that were lost. And it has added interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on those payments to reflect 
the time that they were missing. So I also dont think any further compensation is warranted 
in respect of the missing annuity payments.
There is no doubt that the delays will have caused inconvenience to Mr H. He has explained 
a clearly set out plan for how, and when, he will use the retirement benefits available to him. 
Those plans will have been affected, at least in the short term, by the delays Prudential 
caused. So I think a compensatory payment is warranted for the inconvenience Mr H was 
caused. Prudential has already paid a total of £725 to Mr H in that regard. Having carefully 
thought about the matter I dont think any higher payment is warranted. 
Mr H has expressed concern about the various valuations of his pension benefits that he has 
received from Prudential. There do appear to have been some discrepancies in those 
valuations, and that would naturally lead Mr H to question Prudentials competence in 
performing those calculations.
As our investigator has explained, the calculation of the benefits due from Mr Hs pension 
plan is complex, and needs the support of Prudentials actuary. I am not in a position to 
check those calculations, given they are underpinned by what would be considered to be 
market sensitive information. But I am satisfied that Prudential has rechecked its calculations 
and is now satisfied that the information it has provided to Mr H is accurate.
I understand the frustration that Mr H will feel with my decision. There is no doubt that the 
service he has received from Prudential has fallen well short of what he might reasonably 
expect. But I am equally satisfied that the steps Prudential has taken to put things right are 
entirely in line with, or even perhaps in excess of, what I would have recommended. So 
I dont think there is anything more for Prudential to do in order to put things right for Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman