DRN-3582043
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt handle her chargeback claim correctly.
What happened
In July 2021 Mrs H purchased a ring from an auction house website using her Barclays debit 
card.
When Mrs H received the ring, she found that the emerald was dull, and the ring wasnt what 
she expected. She contacted the auction house and said she didnt want the ring.
The auction house reviewed the photos sent by Mrs H but said the ring matched the 
description on the website. They advised Mrs H that she would need to provide counter 
authorisation to prove that the ring wasnt as described and provided Mrs H with details of a 
gemstone laboratory that she could send the ring to.
Mrs H didnt obtain counter authorisation due to the cost. She contacted Barclays and asked 
to raise a chargeback dispute.
Barclays advised Mrs H not to return the ring until it had completed its investigation. It later 
told Mrs H that this advice was incorrect and that she needed to return the ring.
Mrs H says that by this time, the time period allowed by the auction house to return the ring 
had expired and she would need to have the ring verified before she could send it back.
Mrs H complained to Barclays. It acknowledged that it had provided her with incorrect 
information and offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs H remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that, irrespective of the incorrect 
advice given by Barclays not to return the ring, the requirements of the auction house for the 
ring to be verified before a refund could be initiated overrode the incorrect advice from 
Barclays.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said it wasnt the outcome of the chargeback claim that she was 
unhappy about, but the fact that the incorrect advice given by Barclays not to return the ring 
meant that the suppliers timeframe for returning the ring had expired. Mrs H said she was 
now stuck with a ring she didnt want because shed been advised badly by Barclays. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has said that she isnt complaining about the outcome of the chargeback dispute. So, 
Ive focussed on whether the incorrect advice given by Barclays impacted on Mrs Hs ability 
to return the ring.
Mrs H has said that if Barclays hadnt told her not to return the ring, she couldve returned it 
to the supplier for a refund without the need to have the ring verified.
Ive looked at the timeline of events. I can see that the auction house wrote to Mrs H on 27 
July 2021 advising her that it was submitting the information provided by Mrs H to its experts 
for assessment. I can see that the auction house wrote to Mrs H again on 30 July 2021 and 
stated that the ring conformed to the description provided to Mrs H and that additional 
verification disputing the rings description would need to be provided by Mrs H. 
I can see that Mrs H raised her chargeback dispute with Barclays on 15 August 2021. Based 
on what Ive seen, the auction house had already advised Mrs H that additional verification 
would be needed before the ring could be refunded. So, the incorrect advice given by 
Barclays not to return the ring didnt make any difference because at this point, Mrs H was 
already in a position where she had been advised that she needed to obtain verification 
before she could have a refund.  Because of this, Im not persuaded that the incorrect advice 
given by Barclays impacted on Mrs Hs ability to return the ring.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think the incorrect advice given by Barclays made any 
difference to the situation. And taking everything into account, Im unable to say that 
Barclays handled the chargeback claim unfairly. I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman