DRN-1473434
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Platform) dealt with his 
mortgage account after he separated from his ex-wife. He asks for £300,000 compensation 
for his costs and distress.
What happened
Mr B has a mortgage in his sole name, secured on the property that his ex-wife lives in.  A 
court order was issued as part of their divorce proceedings. The court order says Mr B will 
transfer title to the property to his ex-wife. His ex-wife has to try to release him from liability 
under the mortgage as soon as possible and make mortgage payments in the meantime. Mr 
B complains that: 
Platform told him it won't accept payments from his ex-wife, then decided it would.
Platform discussed his account with his ex-wife without informing him.
He's concerned Platform will record adverse information on his credit file if his ex-
wife misses payments.
Platform hasn't followed all aspects of the court order.
 
Mr B says Platform has deliberately withheld call recordings that support what he says.
Platform said it had given Mr B inconsistent information about whether it accepts payments 
from third parties, which it does allow in certain circumstances. It didn't agree it was 
responsible for Mr B being out-of-pocket as the court order allows him re-claim payments 
from his ex-wife. Platform offered £30 compensation for the inconvenience caused and 
waived the arrears balance (about £27).
Platform said it  discussed its process for accepting payments with Mr B's ex-wife, but no 
account specific information. It said Mr B is responsible for the account while it is in his 
name, and his credit file would be affected if payments are missed. It couldn't see it 
was required to do anything more by the court order.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said Platform took too long 
to make a decision about whether to accept payments from Mr B's ex-wife and to 
communicate its decision. He said Platform should pay compensation of £300, which it 
agreed to do. He didn't think Platform  acted unfairly in other respects.
Mr B didn't agree. He said Platform had broken regulations. He said it had taken sides and 
hadn't provided recordings of its calls with his ex-wife. Mr B said £300 isn't enough 
compensation, and he hadn't received any correspondence from Platform about his account 
in a year. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says Platform withheld recordings of calls. I think I have enough information and 
evidence from Mr B and Platform to reach a fair decision. If Mr B remains concerned about 
access to call recordings, he can contact the Information Commissioner's office. 
I think it's important to say that this mortgage is in Mr B's sole name and Mr B remains 
responsible for it. So I think Platform was correct to tell him that his credit file could be 
affected if payments are missed. And that it would chase him for any outstanding arrears.
The court order, issued as part of divorce proceedings, is binding on Mr B and his ex-wife. 
Platform wasn't a party to the proceedings or the court order. However, it agreed to 
accommodate the arrangement between Mr B and his ex-wife about monthly payments. 
Platform gave Mr B incorrect information when he first contacted it about his ex-wife making 
payments. It was several months before this was corrected. Platform agreed to pay £300 
compensation for the upset and trouble this caused. It waived arrears of about £27. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I don't think it's fair and reasonable to require Platform to refund any mortgage payments 
made by Mr B. Monthly payments are required by the terms of the mortgage. Whether Mr 
B's ex-wife should indemnify him for the payments is a matter they'll need to sort out 
between themselves.
Platform did have contact with Mr B's ex-wife. It received part of the court order from her and 
agreed she could set up a standing order for the monthly payments. While Mr B says 
Platform gave his ex-wife confidential information about his account, I haven't seen evidence 
of this. And I don't think Mr B was caused harm by the discussions, which were to enable his 
ex-wife to make monthly mortgage payments, in accordance with the court order. I don't 
think it's reasonable to require Platform to provide Mr B with recordings of its calls with his 
ex-wife.
There are parts of the court order yet to be fulfilled: Mr B has to transfer title to the property 
to his ex-wife, and she has to arrange for him to be released from his obligations under the 
mortgage (most likely by repaying the mortgage with proceeds raised by a new mortgage or 
the sale of the property). But these are matters for Mr B and his ex-wife to arrange. I don't 
think Platform has made an error here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay £300 
to Mr B (if it hasn't already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman