DRN-4264621
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way Funding Circle Ltd dealt with his request to change the bank 
account linked to the Peer-to-Peer (P2P) lending account he held on its platform. He says 
the process he had to follow has caused him stress in a situation that should have been 
straightforward and hassle free. 
What happened
Mr O holds a P2P lending account on Funding Circles platform. His P2P account has a 
linked bank account that is used for receiving and sending funds to and from Funding Circle. 
In September 2021, he made inquiries about changing bank accounts and then in October 
2021 made a request to change the linked bank account. As he had used a Current Account 
Switching Service, he expected this to be as straightforward as it had been with other 
businesses. 
Funding Circle explained it needed to do some additional checks to verify the new account. It 
asked Mr O to follow a link, which required him to provide live photos as part of the 
process. 
Mr O responded and said he felt that Funding Circle already had sufficient information to 
verify his account. He said he had no ability to take photos on his computer, and he 
questioned why a non-UK business was being used to verify his UK bank account. 
Funding Circle maintained its position that without the link being completed it couldnt 
proceed with verifying the account. It referenced its Investor terms and conditions (section 
7.3) to support that Mr O needed to comply with the instructions given. In relation to taking 
live photos, it said this can be done on a mobile device.
Following this Mr O raised a complaint as he felt he had provided the evidence required for 
the account to be validated without the further steps being required. He also maintained he 
didnt have the device Funding Circle required to allow him to complete the process.  
Funding Circle responded to the complaint. In summary it said:
- It must comply with its obligations to verify financial data such as a new nominated 
bank account. And while it understands Mr Os frustration regarding the bank 
validation process, it must complete its verification protocol.
- The Current Account Switching Service means some providers may not require Mr O 
to verify his new account, but its unable to process payments until he has completed 
its verification process.
- If offered an alternative option to send a cheque for the available funds. 
Mr O didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. One 
of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary she said:
She thought it was reasonable for Funding Circle to request further verification of Mr 
Os bank account in the circumstances. It was protecting the funds held on its 
platform from being sent to a bank account that wasnt his. So, she didnt consider 
that it did anything wrong when asking for further verification through its third-party 
verification provider. 
She appreciated Mr Os frustrations but was satisfied Funding Circle followed its 
business processes in making sure that the new bank account was correct. Funding 
Circle said it could only verify the account after Mr O had uploaded a live photograph. 
But when Mr O said this wouldnt be possible as he didnt have the equipment to do 
so, it offered help, but this wasnt taken up. 
She didnt think Mr O has lost out financially because until the new bank account was 
verified, he was still able to withdraw funds from Funding Circles platform to his old 
bank account, who would then forward to them to his new bank account. Funding 
Circle also offered to send a cheque for the funds. 
She didnt find that Funding Circle had unfairly applied the terms of the contract. She 
considered whether Mr O had been treated fairly taking into the Equality Act 2010. 
She noted Mr O hadnt told us or Funding Circle of any sight problems. So, she didnt 
think there was a reason for Funding Circle to adjust its process when requesting he 
provide a live photo.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision on his complaint. He provided further submissions too. In summary he said:
When changing his bank account, he used the Current Account Switching Service, 
which is supported by the main retail banks in the UK  and is a trusted mechanism 
whereby many thousands of people transfer accounts seamlessly each year. He has 
provided information to Funding Circle that met the requirements to verify a new bank 
account.  
The help Funding Circle offered was purely to complete the live photo process. Given 
his lack of equipment to proceed with this, there seemed no point in pursuing this 
offer of help. A live video feed is not a "document" and is thus not covered by 
Funding Circle's terms and conditions (paragraph 7.3) as something he needs to 
provide. The onus is on Funding Circle to provide an alternative mechanism in such 
circumstances  and no alternative was ever provided. 
His new account has never been verified by Funding Circle, nearly two years since 
opening it. He still has to withdraw via his old account (closed since 2021) and rely 
on the Current Account Switching Service to reroute his funds, but he doesnt regard 
this as satisfactory. 
The offer of a cheque is appreciated, though withdrawals are an ongoing matter, not 
a one-off one. If he could be assured that Funding Circle would honour that 
commitment to make withdrawal payments to him via cheque whenever he 
requested, with no additional fees or charges applied, that would be acceptable. 
He doesnt think it is necessary to inform Funding Circle of his health or that it should 
be necessary for him to do so to address the inadequate bank account verification 
process. He does have health issues which makes the video live streaming highly 
undesirable.
The requirement for a live video performance is not supported by the Terms and 
Conditions, not proportionate and not universally applicable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to acknowledge that the situation has caused Mr O a lot of frustration. I 
understand that he feels Funding Circles processes have made the situation more difficult that it should have been. I recognise that and have considered everything he has said in 
order to reach a fair and reasonable decision based on all the evidence provided. 
Ive reviewed Funding Circles terms and conditions. I note they dont explicitly cover the 
scenario of using live photos to verify bank accounts butut they do mention Mr O needs to 
ensure all documents Funding Circle requires are validated and that he will need to follow 
instructions in relation to the reviewing and approving of these documents. Mr O isnt 
objecting to the need for his account to be verify, but rather the exact method that is being 
used to do it  which isnt something that isnt covered within the terms. However, I can still 
consider whether Mr O has been treated fairly in the circumstances whilst having regard for 
terms. 
Funding Circle has obligations with regards to ensuring client funds are protected and kept 
safe. It has to look after the money and assets that its customers entrust to them. And it has 
to comply with things such as antimoney laundering requirements. Unfortunately, this can 
be frustrating for the customer, but there are good reasons for them to be done. Financial 
firms are required to take a risk-based approach and often use processes that try to 
minimise the inconvenience to customers. 
Funding Circle has explained that when it received Mr Os request, it did attempt to complete 
the verification using the information he initially supplied, but this wasnt possible. There can 
be a number of reasons why one of these checks might not be sufficient, for no fault of the 
customer. Broadly speaking, the check will match up personal data with other records to 
allow Funding Circle to have the confidence to verify the account. Whatever the reason was 
here, Funding Circle needed to do further checks and this is why it required additional 
information from Mr O. The requirement for more information in itself is a reasonable position 
to take, but it is what Funding Circle asked for that has led to Mr O raising a complaint. 
Funding Circle has explained that in situations where automated verification isnt possible, its 
process involves using a service provided by a third party. This is common practice, and I 
havent seen anything to suggest that this would put Mr Os personal data at risk. But I do 
appreciate that Mr O has raised concerns about his availability of a device that allows him to 
complete the requirements. I also acknowledge that due to his personal circumstances it is 
not desirable for him to follow a process that includes the use of photos, and that he doesnt 
feel he should have to provide medical information to support why using a photo isnt 
desirable for him. In the circumstances where a consumer has difficulty following the process 
adopted by a business, I think it is reasonable to expect that attempts should be made to 
support and provide potential alternatives. I can see that Funding Circle has done this, so I 
do think it has made attempts to help Mr O. 
I note Funding Circle did make an alternative offer to provide a cheque, so that Mr O could 
still withdraw funds. Mr O has indicated that this is acceptable, but he is concerned that this 
offer isnt guaranteed and could be withdrawn. Based on what Ive seen, I dont see why 
Funding Circle should not continue to make this as an alternative offer. Im aware the 
platform has closed to retail customers, so Mr O wont be needing to make deposits, only 
withdraw funds. I do appreciate it may take some time for all of his funds to be withdrawn 
due to the nature of P2P investments.  If in the future Funding Circle withdraws or places 
charges on providing cheques, then I would expect Mr O to able to raise any concerns he 
has at this point. 
Mr O says the help offered by Funding Circle was not taken up as it was in relation to the 
process he was unable to follow. There does seem to be some confusion about the precise 
requirements of the process. The information Ive seen indicates that it is not a video that is 
required, but rather a photo taken live, as in the moment of completing the process. But 
Funding Circle will be able to clarify this. If Mr O would like (and is able) to try to provide the verification in the format that Funding Circle has requested, I would expect it to support him 
in doing this. At present it doesnt appear Mr O is able to do this, but should the situation 
change then Funding Circle should see if there are other options that make it  possible for 
him to follow the verification process, for example whether it is possible for him to use the 
device of a friend or family member to provide a live photo in the format that it requires. 
I also note that while Mr Os bank account still isnt verified by Funding Circle, he has still 
been able to receive payments into his current account through the account switching 
service he used. I appreciate that this is a workaround, so not as smooth and desirable as 
having his bank account linked directly to his P2P account. But it does mean he hasnt been 
prevented from having access to his money. 
I appreciate Mr Os frustration that it hasnt been straightforward to verify his bank account. I 
also understand why he would prefer not to have to follow the process set out, and instead 
have his account verified based on what he was already provided. But in order to uphold the 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied there was an error made by Funding Circle. Ive 
accepted that it has acted reasonably in trying to complete a verification process, and it has 
also provided an alternative to allow Mr O access to his funds where he was unable to 
complete the requirements it set. For these reasons, Im not asking Funding Circle to do 
anything further.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman