DRN-3153789
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his preserved defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. Mr M says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes hes lost out as 
a result.
What happened
In 1996 Mr M discussed his pension and retirement needs with Utmost Life and Pensions  
Mr M says this came about as part of an existing client review.
Utmost Life and Pensions completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives. It also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, 
which it deemed to be moderately speculative.
In November 1996 Utmost Life and Pensions advised Mr M to transfer his preserved pension 
benefits in the DB scheme into a personal pension and to invest the proceeds in two 
separate plans a managed fund. The reason why letter said the reasons for this 
recommendation were:
The potential for greater fund growth;
The option to take a tax-free lump sum, which wasnt available in the current scheme;
A greater spouses pension and tax-free sum; and
In order to sever connections with Mr Ms previous employer.
Utmost Life and Pensions followed this up with a second reason why letter in January 1997 
to address some inaccuracies in the previous letter and to confirm Mr Ms understanding of 
the risks of transferring out of the DB scheme.
In 2020 Mr M complained to Utmost Life and Pensions about the suitability of the transfer 
advice because he says his pension has been devalued. He says that based on a recent 
pension statement value, he now believes he would have been better off remaining in his 
employers pension scheme. 
Utmost Life and Pensions didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary it said Mr M was 
visited on more than one occasion and it was explained to him  and documented  what he 
was giving up if he left his employers scheme, but that he wanted potential for greater 
benefits and the availability of earlier retirement. It said it had provided Mr M with the 
necessary information and that Mr M had signed a declaration to say the relevant points had 
been fully discussed and considered.
Mr M subsequently referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the 
complaint and required Utmost Life and Pensions to pay compensation. In summary they 
said they didnt think the advice Mr M was given to transfer was suitable based on his 
circumstances at the time, and because the critical yield required to match the benefits Mr M 
would receive from his employers scheme wasnt reasonably achievable  something 
Utmost Life and Pensions acknowledged itself at the time. They said Mr M didnt have the 
capacity for loss and the reasons for recommending the transfer didnt constitute appropriate 
advice and wasnt in Mr Ms best interests.
Utmost Life and Pensions disagreed. In summary it said that Mr M was made sufficiently 
aware of the benefits he was giving up and that he was provided with all the relevant 
information to make an informed decision as to what to do with his pension. It said Mr Ms 
decision to transfer to a personal pension plan was reasonable in the circumstances at the 
time.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator  I dont think the advice Mr M received to transfer out of his employers 
pension scheme was suitable. My reasoning is set out below.
The advice was provided by Utmost Life & Pensions in late 1996 and early 1997 (although it 
was known by another name then). At this time it was regulated by the Personal Investment 
Authority (PIA). As Utmost Life & Pensions was a previous member of the Life Assurance 
and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO), the PIA (LAUTRO) adopted rules applied 
at the time of the advice. 
The adopted LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This 
required advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. 
Paragraph 6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included 
that they should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr M with this in mind.
Financial viability Utmost Life & Pensions says that Mr M wanted to transfer out of his DB scheme because of 
the potential for greater fund growth through a personal pension. 
The advice was given during the period when the then regulator was publishing discount 
rates for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pension Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I think they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor when the advice was given in this case.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 65 was 10.9% if they took a full 
pension. The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given, which I can refer 
to was 9.9% for 34 years to retirement. However, the rate was 8.5% for 33 years to 
retirement at the point the transfer was made (there was delay between the advice being 
given and the transfer being finalised.) For further comparison, the regulators upper 
projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle projection rate 9%, and the lower projection 
rate 6% per year. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
On the point of Mr Ms attitude to risk, I can see the adviser has recorded this as being 
moderately speculative in the pension transfer questionnaire. Although this isnt defined, it 
seems to me that this would translate to a medium-high attitude to risk. Its not clear to me 
from the available evidence how this assessment of Mr Ms risk appetite was arrived at  in 
my view Mr M was not an experienced investor. It was recorded at the time that Mr M held a 
few thousand pounds in cash savings and had a couple of small endowment savings plans  
but neither of these things reasonably lead me to believe Mr M had sufficient knowledge or 
experience to be able to take a moderately speculative approach to investing his pension. 
However, Mr M was relatively young and he expected to work for around another 30 years, 
so he had time to accumulate additional pension funds and could afford to take some risk. 
With this in mind, a medium or balanced attitude to risk would appear to be more 
appropriate.
There would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the critical yield was 10.9%, which was higher than the regulators middle projection 
rate and the discount rate, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than his DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with a medium 
attitude to risk.
Im mindful too that internal paperwork from the time of the sale suggests that Utmost life 
and Pensions itself questioned the financial viability of the transfer. One document records: 
...critical yield is on the high side and could take some achieving.
It was partly for this reason that the adviser was instructed to produce a second reason 
why letter for Mr M. I note this second letter says:
Finally, you are aware that it may be difficult to achieve the critical yield figure over the 
period of 10.9%.
Utmost Life & Pensions adds that Mr M was told in the illustrations and key features 
document that the projected value of his personal pension wasnt guaranteed. 
So, overall, it believes Mr M understood that he might not get a higher pension by transferring out of his DB scheme. 
But Utmost Life and Pensions was under a duty to provide suitable advice  so if it didnt 
think the transfer was suitable for Mr M because of the difficulty in achieving the critical yield, 
the adviser should not have recommended he go ahead with it. It wasnt sufficient for Utmost 
Life & Pensions to simply ask Mr M to acknowledge that the critical yield wasnt achievable, 
or give him warnings that the projections werent guaranteed, particularly when it had told 
him in the first reason why letter that it was recommending the transfer because the 
personal pension had greater fund growth potential. But it was very unlikely that Mr M would 
be able to match, let alone exceed the benefits he was entitled to under the DB scheme 
through a personal pension. So, I think Utmost Life & Pensions ought to have told Mr M it 
wasnt in his best interests to transfer out.
Overall, I think its clear that Mr M would be worse off financially if he transferred out of his 
DB scheme. For this reason alone, I dont think the advice to transfer out was suitable. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. I accept 
there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash and early retirement
The first reasons why letter said that taking a tax-free lump sum was important to Mr M. It 
said the option to take a tax-free lump sum was available through a personal pension but it 
wasnt available to Mr M through the DB scheme. But another reason why the adviser was 
instructed to produce a second suitability letter was because Utmost Life and Pensions 
believed it was in fact highly likely that this would be available from the DB scheme. Internal 
records show they believed to be the case given that the guaranteed minimum pension 
should easily be covered.
So it appears that one of Mr Ms objectives, taking a tax-free lump sum, would in any case 
be met by remaining in the DB scheme - he did not need to transfer his benefits to a 
personal pension to achieve this.
But importantly in this case, Mr M was only 31 at the time of the advice, and based on what 
Ive seen, he didnt have any concrete retirement plans. The pension transfer questionnaire 
notes that Mr M wanted to work to age 60 at the latest. But Mr M didnt know at this stage 
what his income requirements might be and what, if any, need he had to access a lump sum. 
So, he couldnt have known whether he would be able to afford to retire early. As Mr M had 
around 30 years before he thought he might retire, I think it was too soon to make any kind 
of irreversible decision about transferring out of his DB scheme. 
So I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr M to give up his guaranteed benefits 
when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr M later had reason to 
transfer out of his deferred scheme  for example, to access to a tax-free lump sum because 
his deferred scheme didnt offer that, or because he needed to access a higher income than 
the scheme provided  he could have done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Utmost Life & Pensions says that Mr Ms other main objective, which justified the transfer, 
was to have access to a greater spouses pension through a personal pension  this was set 
out in the first reason why letter.
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his deferred DB scheme to a personal pension because of this. But the priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions, and a 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement.
In the second reason why letter Utmost Life & Pensions qualified that a 50% spouses 
pension was available through the DB scheme, and if Mr M wanted to provide for a spouses 
pension through the personal pension, it would reduce the benefits available to him.
So, it would appear that in fact, Utmost Life & Pensions recognised that Mr M probably 
wouldnt be able to achieve a higher spouses pension if he transferred out of the DB 
scheme. This is because it knew the critical yield was unlikely to be achieved, and the critical 
yield represented the investment growth required to purchase an annuity that provided Mr M 
with the same benefits available through the DB scheme, including a 50% spouses pension. 
So, I think that ought to have prompted the adviser to reconsider their recommendation  
one of Mr Ms main objectives wasnt likely to be met by transferring out.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the deferred scheme were underplayed. 
Mr M was married and had a child - so the spouses/dependents pension provided by the 
deferred scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse/dependents if Mr M predeceased them. 
I dont think Utmost Life and Pension made the value of this benefit clear enough to him. 
This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance. In 
any event, Utmost Life and Pensions should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
It isnt clear whether Mr M was interested in being able to leave a lump sum to his family in 
the event of his death, which was an option if he took out a personal pension. But if Mr M 
genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Utmost Life and 
Pensions shouldve instead explored life insurance  particularly given Mr Ms relatively 
young age. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I think Utmost Life & 
Pensions recognised that Mr M probably wouldnt be able to achieve a higher spouses 
pension by transferring to a personal pension. Again, asking Mr M to acknowledge that he 
understood this doesnt make the advice to transfer out suitable. 
Control and wanting to sever links with employer
While not a key objective recorded on the suitability letters, other paperwork from the time of 
the advice records that Mr M was attracted to the concept of controlling this part of his 
pension arrangements. But Im not persuaded by this  Mr M was not an experienced 
investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own (and I can see the fund choice was a managed fund.) So, I 
dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his deferred defined benefit scheme.
In any event, I dont think severing links with his previous employer was an objective reason 
for recommending the transfer to Mr M. I consider it was for the adviser to distance 
themselves from any emotion or feelings Mr M might have had about his previous employer - 
albeit I note Mr M says he parted with his previous employer on good terms)  and base 
their recommendation on Mr Ms broader retirement objectives and circumstances at the 
time. I dont think severing ties with an employer was an appropriate reason to recommend a 
transfer.Summary
I dont doubt that higher growth potential, control and potential for higher death benefits on 
offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But 
Utmost Life and Pensions wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend 
what was suitable.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. And in my view there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think Utmost Life and Pensions shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Utmost Life and 
Pensions advice. Utmost Life and Pensions appears to argue that this is the case because it 
says that Mr M was provided with all of the relevant information to make an informed 
decision  including that the critical yield may be difficult to achieve and that he was giving 
up certain guaranteed benefits.
Ive considered this carefully - but Im not persuaded by what Utmost Life and Pensions 
says. Utmost Life and Pensions wasnt just providing Mr M with information  it was advising 
him. So simply telling Mr M what he was giving up didnt make the recommendation to 
transfer suitable.
And if things had happened as they should have, I dont think Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of his DB scheme and gone ahead in any event. I say this because Mr was 
not in my view an inexperienced investor and I think he relied on the advice he was given. At 
the time this pension was the primary source of Mr Ms retirement provision. So, if Utmost 
Life and Pensions had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Utmost Life and Pensions should compensate Mr M for the 
unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology. 
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr M. Utmost Life and Pensions argues Mr M has not 
suffered given hes used a representative to bring his complaint. But compensation isnt 
awarded to recognise the inconvenience of making a complaint - instead it is to compensate 
the customer for the impact of any wrongdoing. And taking everything into account, including 
that Mr M is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him distress. And overall, I think an award of £250 is fair in all 
the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Utmost Life and Pensions unsuitable advice. I 
consider Mr M would have most likely remained in his deferred defined benefit scheme if 
suitable advice had been given.
Utmost Life and Pensions must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Utmost Life and Pensions may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr 
Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Utmost Life and Pensions 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Utmost Life 
and Pensions to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. I also award an amount of £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused Mr M.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Utmost 
Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman