DRN-4048933
The complaint
Mr C complains about British Gas Service Limited (British Gas) for work done by its agents. 
He wants them to reinstate a water supply which they disconnected during their work. 
What happened
I set out the background to this matter in a provisional decision issued in March 2023. That 
background is not in dispute so I will not repeat it in full here. 
In short, Mr C appeared to have a leak in underground pipes at his home. His home 
emergency cover with British Gas responded to this and set to replacing the pipe which led 
from the mains water supply to Mr Cs home. 
As part of that work, British Gass agents disconnected a secondary water supply which led 
off the replaced pipe, and up to an outbuilding. This stopped the water supply to the 
outbuilding and w/c inside it. The engineers did not advise Mr C about this.
Mr C complained, and he wants British Gas to reinstate his additional water supply by 
reconnecting the pipe to the outbuilding. British Gas declined to do so. 
In my provisional decision I set out that I thought that British Gas needed to reinstate the 
water supply, or pay for it to be done by another contractor. I also thought that British Gas 
should pay Mr C £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr C has indicated that he accepts the provisional decision. 
British Gas has responded that it has nothing more to add. i
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no additional evidence or arguments have been submitted, I remain of the view set out in 
my provisional decision and I adopt that decision and reasons as my final decision. 
I therefore uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and 
direct British Gas Services Limited to:
Reinstate the water supply to Mr Cs outbuilding, or arrange with Mr C to reimburse 
him for such reinstatement; and
Pay to Mr C £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman