DRN-3457178
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the service provided and settlement offered by Fairmead 
Insurance Limited (Fairmead) under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Following a storm, Miss Ss property suffered external and internal damage to the sunroom 
of her property in early February 2021. She made a claim on the insurance policy she held 
with Fairmead at the relevant time.
Fairmead arranged for an inspection of the damage to take place. The claim validation report 
identified a section of lead flashing that had been disturbed and noted that this may have 
allowed water to enter. The report also noted that the policy provided cover for damage 
caused by the actions of storm and that on the date given, the storm criteria were met. 
Initially, Fairmead wrote to Miss S and said that the loss had been accepted under the terms 
and conditions of the policy, so covering her for reinstatement of the damaged areas and 
items. It offered a sum of just under £400 to settle her claim, taking into account the relevant 
excess amount. Miss S initially accepted this sum and then rejected it, as she didnt feel that 
it was sufficient to cover the actual damage. Fairmead sent contractors to Miss Ss home, 
who indicated that they would only address the internal damage.
As Fairmead had already indicated that it would cover both the internal and external 
damage, it said it was willing to consider both elements, and instructed the contractor to 
discuss next steps with Miss S. Miss S remained unhappy as she hadnt received an update 
and wanted an accurate claim value to be provided or remedial works to be completed by 
Fairmead. She said that shed sent numerous emails to Fairmead but to no avail, and she 
referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ss complaint. She noted that Miss S had initially accepted 
Fairmeads cash settlement, however shortly afterwards changed her mind and asked 
Fairmead to arrange the work instead. As Fairmead had already provided the cash 
settlement amount to Miss S, it contacted the contractors to ensure it would still take on the 
work. It was agreed in March 2021 that the contractors would complete the repair work as 
soon as the cash settlement amount had been returned. Our investigator considered that 
Miss S should have been kept informed. As she wasnt, our investigator didnt think that 
Fairmead had acted fairly. It was her view that Fairmead should reopen the claim. She also 
thought that Miss S should be awarded compensation of £100 for Fairmeads 
communication failures.
Fairmead hasnt accepted this outcome. The matter has therefore been referred to me to 
make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive concluded that Fairmead hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the way 
in which its progressed this claim or in relation to its offer of settlement. Ill explain why.
Miss S told us that the storm caused a roof leak and damage to internal walls, electric lights 
and her sofa. She said that the storm had been registered as an official weather warning 
with the insurance company. Following inspection, she explained that Fairmead had said it 
would cover the cost of the damage. She disagreed with the cash offer and asked for 
another inspection to take place as she knew that sum offered wouldnt cover the cost of the 
actual damage. Miss S said that Fairmead then advised her to contact her own contractor to 
obtain a quote. She considered that shed suffered terrible hassle and she would like her 
roof repaired as agreed. The contractors havent contacted her to discuss or explain the 
matter.
Fairmead said that Miss S ultimately rejected the cash settlement offer and it then appointed 
contractors with the intention that they would carry out the necessary work. It said that the 
contractors reviewed Miss Ss property in more detail than the representative who carried 
out the initial inspection. It explained that the contractors had advised that only the internal 
damage would be covered. This was because they didnt consider that the damage was due 
to a one-off storm event, but was due to wear and tear and so, not covered by the policy. 
They also said that until the external repairs were completed by Miss S, they were unable to 
complete the internal repairs. 
Fairmead stated that it didnt have clarity on the cause of the damage or that storm 
conditions had been present at the relevant time. It acknowledged however that it had 
agreed at the outset to cover both the internal and external works. It also said in its final 
response letter that; Having reviewed all the information available to me, I do agree that the 
settlement offer we made to you was incorrect. Please accept my apologies for the error, 
which we accept is not what you will have come to expect from us. Fairmeads notes also 
show that it acknowledged that there had been communication failures. Finally, Fairmead 
stated that it no longer wishes to complete the works as; too much time has passed.
Having looked at all the available evidence, Im satisfied that Miss S hasnt been treated by 
Fairmead in a fair and reasonable manner. After accepting liability for both internal and 
external damage to Miss Ss sunroom due to storm damage, Fairmead didnt progress the 
matter satisfactorily and the claim still hasnt settled over a year later. 
As Miss S rejected Fairmeads cash settlement offer which included a sum for external and 
internal damage, I note that it then instructed contractors to proceed with the necessary 
work. Its fair to say that Fairmead had created the clear expectation that it would itself 
arrange both internal and external work within a reasonable timescale. Fairmead has stated 
that, as an insurer, it has the usual option to either settle a claim through a cash payment or 
by carrying out repairs. In this case however, as Fairmead had proceeded a significant way 
along a particular route, its reasonable to expect that it would fulfil its promises, even if the 
promises had been given in error. An error hasnt been evidenced in any event.
Its also noted that there appeared to have been confusion between Fairmead, its 
representatives and its contractors as to how to progress the matter. This shouldnt however 
affect the customers claim experience. In any event, Fairmead stated in its final response 
letter that it would honour both the internal and external repair work as this was what was 
originally agreed. Similarly, the fact that a considerable amount of time has passed due to 
any confusion and lack of communication by Fairmead shouldnt be used as a reason to 
continue to disadvantage Miss S by not progressing the claim.As to the total amount offered in cash settlement, I note that Fairmead accept that the 
settlement offer was incorrect. Ive seen no evidence however that a revised offer has been 
made to Miss S. I cant therefore say that Fairmead has treated Miss S fairly and reasonably.
I also agree with our investigator that Miss S wasnt kept informed. It appears that this lack of 
communication by Fairmead has continued, and I find that Miss S has been treated in an 
unfair and unreasonable manner in this respect also. I concur that Miss S should be 
awarded some compensation due to the service failure and lack of communication during 
the handling of this claim. Its clearly caused trouble and inconvenience for Miss S. I agree 
with our investigator that £100 would be fair and reasonable in this respect.
In the circumstances, I cant say that Fairmead has provided Miss S with a fair and 
reasonable service or settled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ss complaint against Fairmead Insurance 
Limited and, subject to the relevant excess amount, require it to either; -
- arrange for the internal and external repairs to Miss Ss sunroom to be carried out without 
further delay, or
- to pay Miss S the cost of repairs (following provision by Miss S of a receipt or invoice), 
within 28 days of her acceptance of this Final Decision and to pay interest on the cost of 
such repairs calculated from the date Miss S paid this amount to the date of settlement, at 
8% a year simple interest*.
- in any event, to pay Miss S compensation in the sum of £100 for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
*If Fairmead considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give Miss S a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman