DRN-3903306
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI at the same time as arranging a further advance on the 
mortgage in 1992. Nationwide has no records of how the policy was sold and Mr and Mrs M 
cant recall how it was sold to them. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just 
to cover Mr M for accident, sickness and unemployment.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I was thinking of upholding 
the complaint and inviting the parties to make any further comments they may have. 
Nationwide responded with some additional comments that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought it was more likely than not that the policy 
had been presented as optional and that Mr and Mrs M therefore probably decided to buy it 
knowing that they didnt have to. 
Nationwide didnt advise Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that 
it met their needs. But it did need to provide Mr and Mrs M with sufficient information for 
them to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for 
them.
The policy had a 90-day waiting period. So even if Mr M had made a successful claim, Mr 
and Mrs M would have had to carry on paying their mortgage repayments themselves for 
that initial period.
This information would have been important to Mr and Mrs M because, as Mr M was self- 
employed, he wouldnt have received any sick pay if he was unable to work due to accident 
or illness. And the couple didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So, I 
think theyd have quickly found themselves unable to pay the mortgage if Mr M wasnt 
working.
Nationwide says that, if Mr and Mrs M were unable to make their mortgage repayments 
following a claim being made, it would have agreed payment concessions, such as a 
payment holiday. Indeed, Nationwide has now explained that it did grant a three-month 
payment holiday in April 1999 when Mr M was out of work.
I appreciate what Nationwide has said about what would happen in practice. But Ive had to 
consider what Mr and Mrs M would have done if theyd been aware of the 90-day waiting 
period at the point of sale. Im not persuaded that they would have wanted to rely on the 
promise of an informal arrangement, even if they knew that such an arrangement might be 
available. And they would have still needed to make up those mortgage payments 
afterwards. Therefore, I dont think theyd have wanted a policy that would involve relying on 
the goodwill of Nationwide in the circumstances of Mr M being unable to work due to 
unemployment or illness.
In response to my provisional decision, Nationwide has said that, as it was a non-advised 
sale, it didnt need to tell Mr and Mrs M about policies available from other providers. I 
wouldnt expect them to do this even if it was an advised sale. 
But the 90-day waiting period was a significant term that Nationwide needed to bring to Mr 
and Mrs Ms attention. Nationwide says that, if it was sold during a meeting, the deferment 
period would have been explained verbally. Additionally, it has set out that the term was 
mentioned twice in the literature that would have been given to Mr and Mrs M. It thinks they 
would have taken the time to read the leaflet and therefore concluded that they would have 
been aware of the waiting period. 
Ive thought about what Nationwide has said. But Im still not persuaded that information 
about the waiting time was given to Mr and Mrs M in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Because, if it had been, I dont think they would have taken out the policy if 
theyd have understood that it would only start paying out after three months. 
I take Nationwides point that an alternative policy with a shorter waiting period would 
probably have been more expensive. But that doesnt persuade me that theyd have wanted 
to buy this policy just because it was cheaper. Thats because it didnt entirely meet their 
needs and so I dont think theyd have considered it to be good value for money in their 
circumstances. It follows that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. Therefore, Nationwide should:
 Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI
 Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs M.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and require Nationwide Building 
Society to pay fair compensation as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman