DRN-1437326
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) and its decision to decline 
their claim under a travel insurance policy.  Mr and Mrs H wants UKI to pay the costs of the 
unused element of a holiday they curtailed (£772) and the £109 paid for replacement flights 
to return home to be with a seriously ill relative, though they accept a £75 excess fee should 
be deducted.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy says it wont cover claims caused by a close relative who has been 
diagnosed with cancer in the twelve months prior to the booking of the trip; there are 
other parts to this exclusion are also likely to apply due to the relatives health issues. 
While Mrs H feels this is unfair as she says it would stop anyone going on holiday 
with a relative suffering with cancer, it isnt unfair for an insurer to set out what it will 
and wont cover; this affects the premium charged and there are many different types 
of policies.
I understand that Mrs H felt it was harrowing to ask for medical evidence about her 
relative. But its for Mr and Mrs H to prove that they had a valid claim, and given the 
reason for the curtailment of the holiday, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for UKI to 
ask for medical evidence. The information from the relatives GP is that a diagnosis 
was made of cancer in April 2019 and the trip was booked in June 2019. While the 
GP says Mr and Mrs H couldnt have predicted the worsening of the relatives health 
due to complications, that isnt what the policy requires. The relevant issue is that the 
trip was booked within twelve months of the relative being diagnosed with cancer, 
which is specifically excluded by the terms of the policy.
Im not bound by the terms and conditions of the policy, but must think about what is 
fair and reasonable. Ive looked at the policy and the exclusion is clear. And the 
medical evidence is that the worsening of the relatives health which caused Mr and 
Mrs H to return was a complication of the cancer so the exclusion is linked to the 
claim. I also note that the exclusion said if the close relative had been on a waiting 
list for treatment or given a terminal prognosis in the twelve months prior to the 
booking of the trip, the claim was excluded; I think from the medical evidence its 
likely that the close relative was in this position. In all the circumstances, I dont think 
UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the exclusion.
I note £45 compensation has been offered for the trouble and upset caused by not 
declining the claim earlier. Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset, but 
given most of Mr and Mrs Hs upset appears to be about the decline of the claim, for 
which I havent found UKI to be fault, I think the offer is fair and reasonable. I also havent found that UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it processed the 
claim.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about UK Insurance Limited and leave 
it up to Mr and Mrs H whether to accept the £45 offer if it remains available. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject 
my decision before 23 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman