DRN-3510281
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt reimbursed the money she lost after she fell 
victim to a purchase scam.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in July 2021 Miss L was browsing a genuine social 
media page that sells designer shoes, when she saw a pair she liked and left a comment on 
the picture. A few minutes later, Miss L received a private message on the same social 
media platform, from who she believed was the shoe seller, advising her the shoes were on 
sale and asking if she wished to purchase them. 
Unbeknownst to Miss L at the time, this contact was actually from a fraudster who had 
created an account to look the same as the genuine page Miss L had just been viewing. The 
name of the fraudsters page was the same as the genuine one, but with one additional letter 
in its name. The fraudsters profile photo was also the same logo as the genuine company, 
but a different colour. Miss L has explained that as the name and logo of the fraudsters 
page was so similar, and having just commented on the genuine page, she believed she 
was speaking to that same company. Miss L has also explained shed bought in the past 
from the genuine sellers website, so had no concerns of their legitimacy. 
Miss L didnt initially intend to purchase the trainers in question, but says the fraudster 
lowered the cost and said they wouldnt be sold at this price again. Miss L agreed on this 
basis to purchase the trainers and was given account details to transfer the funds to, with an 
account name that appeared to match that of the genuine business. After sending the funds, 
the fraudster offered Miss L other trainers for prices that seemed too good to be true. At this 
point, Miss L became suspicious and realised the discrepancy in the name of the page she 
was being contacted by. Miss L contacted Monzo straight away to raise a fraud claim.
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo considers Miss L didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a 
legitimate purchase or speaking to a genuine seller. Monzo has accepted it didnt provide 
Miss L with an effective warning, but as the payment Miss L made was relatively low value, 
doesnt consider it was required to. Miss L feels she should be refunded and so has referred 
her complaint to us. An investigator looked into the complaint and thought it ought to be 
upheld, with Monzo providing a full refund. As Monzo disagreed with the investigators view, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have fully refunded the money 
Miss L lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss L 
lost.
The money was taken from Miss Ls current account. It is not clear how she would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date it declined the claim under the Code to the date of payment.
I agree with Monzo that as the payment Miss L made was relatively unremarkable in value 
and there were therefore no clear risk indicators for fraud, it wasnt required to provide Miss 
L with an effective warning under the CRM Code. 
However, Ive also considered Monzos representations about whether Miss L had a 
reasonable basis for believing this transaction to be genuine and Im not persuaded that 
Miss L failed to take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
Monzo has said that Miss L completed no checks on the individual who contacted her until 
after sending the money. It says when Miss L did check the fraudsters social media page, 
she very quickly realised it was a scam but failed to do this before making the payment. 
While Miss L had bought from the genuine page before, Monzo considers that as this 
previous sale was conducted via the companys website, it ought to have raised red flags 
that Miss L was being asked to pay this time by bank transfer through the social media site. 
It also considered the way the fraudster interacted with Miss L and dropping the price 
shouldve raised concerns for a company that specialise in sourcing sought after goods. 
While it agreed that the timing of Miss Ls message on the genuine site added to the scam, it 
argued that anyone in the world couldve seen the comment Miss L left and responded.
While I appreciate the points Monzo has made, I dont think it takes the unfolding of the 
scam into context fully. Miss L had left a comment on the genuine sites page minutes before 
receiving contact from the scammer, who was clearly monitoring the page for opportunities 
to defraud. I think its fair to say that as Miss L had successfully used this company before, 
and not being an expert in fraud and scams, the notion that, by posting, she may have left 
herself more vulnerable to scammers wouldnt have crossed her mind. Therefore, when 
receiving contact from a page that had almost the exact same name and logo, and citing the 
trainers Miss L had just shown interest in, without already having some doubts about the 
pages legitimacy I dont think its unreasonable that Miss L assumed this was the same 
business she had just interacted with, without feeling the need to check.
Monzo has argued that the fraudsters interactions with Miss L are no different to anyone 
leaving a review on a large, established business website, then being hassled to buy 
products, but I disagree with this logic. Firstly I dont consider the business models are 
comparable  there are thousands of smaller businesses now using social media as their 
largest method of advertisement and sales and for these businesses that rely on this method 
of sale more heavily, I dont think its wholly unusual for them to make contact with a 
customer after interest is shown in a product. The price Ive seen Miss L paid for the trainers also wasnt unrealistic  being similar to what Ive seen the trainers being sold for on other 
genuine, online luxury websites.
I appreciate that when Miss L previously bought from the genuine seller, she did so directly 
through its website, but as Ive mentioned, I dont think its unusual for smaller businesses to 
accept payments also directly through its social media. From reviewing the genuine sellers 
page, I can see it also encourages social media messages, mobile phone instant 
messaging, as well as website contact. Miss L was also given an account name similar to 
the genuine business name to send funds to. Unfortunately the account she sent funds to 
didnt support the recently introduced Confirmation of Payee service that allows banks to 
confirm whether account names match the intended recipient. Miss L was therefore unable 
to know that the account details she entered didnt match the recipient account.
In summary, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown Miss L didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing she was making a genuine purchase. Monzo should therefore refund the funds 
Miss L lost to the fraudster in full.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund the £245 Miss L lost to the scammer
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Monzo declined Miss Ls claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman