DRN-4330927
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim made on his travel insurance policy 
(the policy).
What happened
Mr H had the benefit of a travel insurance policy as part of a packaged bank account. 
In or around June 2022, hed booked to go on holiday in September 2022, but a few weeks 
before his intended holiday, he cancelled and claimed on the policy. 
AWP declined the claim on the basis that Mr H hadnt declared his pre-existing medical 
condition before booking the trip. If he had, it says it wouldve excluded claims for those pre-
existing medical conditions which were the reason for holiday being cancelled.
Unhappy, Mr H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked 
into what happened and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr H disagreed. So, his complaint has 
now been passed to me to look at everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has an obligation to handle insurance claims promptly and fairly - and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. 
I know Mr H will be very disappointed but, for the reasons set out below, Im satisfied AWP 
has acted fairly and reasonably by declining his claim.
The terms and conditions of the policy reflect that the policy doesnt automatically include 
cover for pre-existing medical conditions. 
Pre-existing medical condition is defined as:
Any disease, illness or injury for which you have experienced symptoms, consulted a 
doctor or been diagnosed withwhen renewing your medical screening declaration 
on the health check date
The health check date is defined as: 
Before booking a trip if your health has changed (your pre-existing medical condition 
has deteriorated, your dosage or number of prescribed medication has increased or 
you have developed a new medical condition)
The health declaration and health exclusions section of the policy (starting page 15) says:
You must provide us with further details about your pre-existing medical condition if:
You answer yes to any of the following medical screening questions; and
The pre-existing condition is not one of the No screen medical conditions listed in 
this section
It explains how Mr H can provide AWP with further details of his pre-existing medical 
conditions (by email or by calling) and if he failed to do this it may mean you will not be 
covered for related claims.
From what Mr H has said and the information from around the time, Im satisfied the main 
reason for Mr H cancelling his holiday was due to anxiety. 
During a phone call with one of AWPs representatives towards the end of August 2022, he 
explains that his anxiety levels had increased to the extent that he doesnt feel confident. He 
also lists anxiety as a reason on his claim form for not being able to travel. Theres also a 
letter from his GP dated September 2022 that Mr H is suffering from extreme anxiety and 
worsening low mood that has recently deteriorated.  The letter explains that he wouldnt be 
able to go on holiday as a result. 
Anxiety isnt on the list of No screen medical conditions in the policy terms and conditions. 
So, Ive considered whether any of the medical screening questions shouldve been 
answered yes. The questions include:
In the last six months have/are you
1. Been prescribed medication?
2. Received treatment for or consulted a doctor about any medical condition?
The medical certificate completed by Mr Hs GP in September 2022 reflects that the onset of 
symptoms for his anxiety started in December 2021 and he started anti-depressant 
medication which hed taken intermittently. But his anxiety deteriorated in August 2022.  
Mr H says that he only mentioned to his GP (who was also a friend) early in 2022 that he 
was apprehensive about going away (on a separate trip with family in March 2022). He was 
prescribed anti-depressant medication for good measure in case he needed to take them. 
But he didnt. He then when on other holidays without issue. 
However, thats not entirely consistent with another letter received from his GP in April 2023 
which reflects that Mr H reported feeling anxious in January 2022 and he was prescribed 
anti-depressant medication. When he was reviewed a few weeks later he reported feeling 
better, more positive. And that hed only taken two days of the tablets before stopping them 
due to nausea.  
I know the GP goes on to say that they dont think Mr Hs anxiety amounts to a pre-existing 
medical condition. But there are specific terms and definitions in the policy that need to be 
met. 
In light of the overall evidence, Im satisfied that AWP has fairly concluded that Mr H had 
been prescribed medication in the last six months before booking his holiday and had 
consulted a doctor about anxiety. Im also satisfied that Mr H ought to have contacted AWP before making the booking for the 
holiday starting September 2022  which was cancelled - before booking it in June 2022. 
AWP says if Mr H had contacted it to declare anxiety before booking his holiday, anxiety 
wouldnt have been covered. On the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied thats likely to 
have been the decision made. 
Thats because Mr H did contact AWP towards the end of August 2022, before cancelling his 
holiday (but after it was booked), to tell them about his anxiety and that he didnt think hed 
be able to travel. He was asked to make medical declarations at that stage and answered 
questions about his anxiety and another medical condition. He was notified by AWP that, 
based on his answers, the policy wouldnt cover any claims relating to anxiety (or the other 
condition).
Ive got no reason to doubt that the same outcome wouldnt have been reached had Mr H 
contacted AWP before booking his holiday in June 2022 to make the same medical 
declarations. And so, Im satisfied AWP has fairly concluded that the claim isnt covered as it 
relates to a pre-existing medical condition, which Mr H should have told it about before 
booking his holiday but didnt. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman