The complaint
Mr B says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan MYJAR provided to Mr B in June 2018. The loan 
was for £550 and was repaid over six monthly instalments of £160. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and thought MYJARs checks for the loans 
went far enough. Mr B disagreed and asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for review. He didnt think MYJARs checks were sufficient  and had it done 
proportionate checks it would have found he had other short-term loans and was struggling 
financially. 
As Mr B asked for am ombudsmans review, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
DRN-1932234There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought MYJARs checks didnt go far 
enough and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially. So, it shouldnt 
have lent to him.
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr B about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £1,500. MYJAR also checked Mr Bs normal 
monthly living costs. Mr B declared these as £1,081 per month. MYJAR says it also 
searched Mr Bs credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any 
recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the 
time the loan was taken out. 
As this was the first loan Mr B had borrowed from MYJAR, he was very early on in his 
lending relationship with it. And even though he had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
MYJAR. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr B provided at the time which would 
have given MYJAR cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of MYJAR to have relied 
on what Mr B gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact on what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
MYJAR to carry out. Given these, I think the checks MYJAR did before lending the loan went 
far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Mr B declared to MYJAR at the time of the loan may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think MYJAR was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what MYJAR knew about Mr B, 
I wouldnt have expected MYJAR to verify the information Mr B gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that MYJAR has done something wrong in lending Mr B this loan.
I appreciate my findings are likely to disappoint Mr B. But I hope my explanation will help him 
understand why Ive reached this conclusion.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman