DRN-3781901
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) 
declined to renew their non-negligent liability cover under their home insurance policy.
For ease, I will normally only refer to Mr W, as he dealt with the complaint.
What happened
Mr W took out a home insurance policy through Hiscox. As part of this, he needed cover for 
building works, which Hiscox provided under its Renovations and Extensions cover. This 
was an add-on to the policy and included non-negligent liability cover. A claim was made 
under the non-negligent liability cover. When the policy came up for renewal Hiscox said it 
could continue to provide a home insurance policy. However, it couldnt confirm at that time 
whether it could extend the Renovations and Extensions cover, including the non-negligent 
liability cover.
Mr W complained about the delay in confirming the cover offered. When Hiscox replied it 
said the underwriting team werent able to offer cover until the cause of the claim was 
established. When this had been investigated, it decided it wasnt able to offer non-negligent 
liability cover. It said when a period of insurance lapses, the risk was underwritten again and 
it wasnt obliged to extend cover.
Mr W complained again, as the non-negligent liability cover hadnt renewed. His 
understanding was that Hiscox had agreed to provide this cover for a 10-year period. When 
Hiscox replied, it quoted previous email exchanges about the policy cover. It said the 
emphasis had been on potential claims made by a neighbour. It had not confirmed cover for 
a 10-year period or that the policy would renew annually for 10 years. It said the insurance 
schedule had clearly set out the terms of cover.
When Mr W complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the policy 
was for one year. Each year was a separate contract. The correspondence with Hiscox was 
about the extent of the non-negligent liability cover in relation to neighbours properties. 
Hiscox wasnt asked to provide cover for 10 years and it hadnt agreed to do so. He said 
Hiscox didnt need to do anything further.
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr W is concerned that because Hiscox wasnt willing to renew the non-negligent liability 
cover not only did he not have cover, but this also meant he had broken a court order 
requiring him to have this cover in place for a 10-year period. 
Ive looked at the policy schedule. This gave the period of insurance, which was one year. 
The non-negligent liability cover was part of the Renovation and Extensions add-on cover. 
The policy schedule included a section about this cover and said:
If the building work at your home continues after the expiry date of your Hiscox Insurance 
policy and you choose not to renew your policy with us or we are unable to offer renewal, the 
cover provided under this restoration and renovation extension will
automatically come to an end.
So, I think this explained Hiscox might be unable to renew this cover.
Mr W also told this service "We acknowledge that we had not specifically asked Hiscox to 
confirm that they would renew the non-neg insurance for 10 years, but the clause in the 
agreement made it clear that this was what would be required."
From what Ive seen, the court order put an obligation on Mr W to maintain cover. I cant see 
that the court order said this had to be through one policy for the whole 10-year period. A 10-
year policy wouldnt be a standard requirement or something that was commonly offered. I 
would expect this issue to be specifically discussed if it was a key requirement for the policy. 
Ive looked at the email exchanges about the policy. I can see that Hiscox was aware of the 
wording from the court order requiring Mr W to maintain liability insurance for 10 years. 
Hiscox provided Mr W with the policy details. Following a discussion with Mr Ws barristers 
and builders, Mr Ws broker asked for confirmation the policy provided cover if a neighbour 
wanted to claim. Hiscox replied and explained the types of claims covered.
I havent seen evidence Mr W requested policy cover for a 10-year period or that Hiscox said 
the cover would be in place for that period. When queries were raised about the cover under 
the non-negligent liability part of the policy, this focussed on claims made by neighbours. 
The policy said the time period it covered, which was one year. It also said Hiscox might be 
unable to renew the cover beyond the policy expiry date. An insurer is entitled to review the 
cover it is willing or able to provide when a policy is due to renew. In this instance, Hiscox 
advised Mr W it was unable to continue to offer non-negligent liability insurance because the 
reinsurer wouldnt provide cover due to the claim made under the policy.
Im aware this left Mr W without non-negligent liability cover, despite a court order requiring 
him to have this in place. I think Hiscox was clear about the terms of the policy. I also havent 
seen evidence to show Hiscox acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to continue to offer 
this cover. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Hiscox to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman