DRN-2393399
The complaint
Mr T complains that Financial Claims Made Simple Ltd (trading as Reclaim PPI) didnt do 
enough to progress his claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). He believes 
hes lost out on the opportunity of bringing his complaint against the lender to the financial 
ombudsman service as a result.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr T instructed Reclaim PPI to act on his behalf in a claim for mis-sold PPI 
against a lender. 
In September 2019, Mr T told Reclaim PPI hed received a call from someone claiming to be 
the lender, but he wasnt sure it was legitimate. He asked Reclaim PPI to contact the lender 
to find out what the query was and if the caller was genuine.
 
In response Reclaim PPI told Mr T it couldnt stop lenders contacting him directly. The PPI 
questionnaire Mr T had completed in July 2019, should provide the information necessary for 
the lender to fully investigate his claim. He could answer the lenders questions if he felt 
comfortable or direct them to Reclaim PPI.
In June 2020 Reclaim PPI received correspondence from the lender with their final decision 
to Mr Ts complaint. The final decision was dated September 2019. Reclaim PPI emailed the 
lenders final decision letter to Mr T a few days after receiving it. 
Mr T asked Reclaim PPI to take his complaint against the lender to the financial ombudsman 
service. Reclaim PPI said it was unable to take things further, because the lenders decision 
letter only gave six months to bring the complaint to the ombudsman service.
Mr T complained to Reclaim PPI that he wasnt able to appeal the final decision sent by the 
lender because it was time-barred. He said he hadnt received the final decision letter the 
lender said theyd sent in September 2019. He believed hed lost out because of Reclaim 
PPIs mismanagement of his claim.
Reclaim PPI said it had done all it could to progress Mr Ts complaint with the lender. It 
submitted his complaint in a timely manner. It chased for a response in October 2019. 
Although there was a gap before chasing them again (in April 2020), this was because it was 
following instructions from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to postpone chases with 
lenders. It could see the lenders letter of September 2019 was sent directly to Mr T.
Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He understood Mr T didnt 
receive the final response from the lender when it was issued in September 2019, but he 
didnt think Reclaim PPI was responsible for this.
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view. He felt Reclaim PPI should have done more to 
follow up with the lender when they didnt respond to it. Leaving it until another few months 
had passed was not acceptable.
As Mr T disagrees with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require Reclaim PPI to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its customers.
Mr T believes he lost out on bringing his PPI claim to the financial ombudsman service and a 
potential settlement because Reclaim PPI didnt proactively pursue his claim.
 
Its unfortunate that Mr T didnt receive the lenders final decision letter dated September 
2019. I dont know why it didnt reach him, but I can see the address on it is the same as the 
one Mr T has given us. And I havent seen any evidence that a copy of this letter was sent to 
Reclaim PPI before June 2020. 
Reclaim PPIs records show it chased the lender for an updated on Mr Ts claim in October 
2019. When Mr T asked Reclaim PPI for a further update in December 2019, it told him the 
FCA had asked claims management companies (CMCs) not to chase lenders for a few 
months while they dealt with backlogs. It didnt chase them again until April 2020.
I appreciate this was a big gap and Mr T is also unhappy that Reclaim PPI wasnt more 
proactive in pursuing the lender for an outcome to his claim by trying different methods of 
contact. But the FCA sent a letter to CMCs in October 2019 which referred to lenders facing 
very significant operational challenges because of the unprecedented volume of PPI 
checking enquiries and complaints theyd received in August. It said typical response times 
to complaints may sometimes stretch well beyond 24 weeks. And it asked CMCs to 
recognise this and allow lenders a reasonable amount of time to give a final response. 
While Reclaim PPI might have chased the lender a bit sooner, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to have allowed them more time to respond before doing so. 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing to Mr T who feels he might have lost out 
because he wasnt able to bring his PPI complaint to the financial ombudsman service within 
the relevant time limits. But having considered everything, I dont think Reclaim PPI is 
responsible for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman