DRN-3825714
The complaint
Mr T complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) has unfairly declined 
a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 and set out the background to the 
complaint as:
The background to this complaint is quite straightforward and well known to both parties, so 
Ill only summarise it here.
Mr T tells us he purchased a watch from a jeweler based in the United States of 
America in February 2021.
He imported the watch via a well-known courier service and paid import duties and 
taxes.
In September 2021 he insured the watch as a specified personal item.
In January 2022 Mr T noticed his watch was missing after a night out, he reported 
this to the police and notified Gresham in order to make a claim.
Gresham declined the claim, and in its final response dated 5 April 2022 it said as Mr 
T had only recently taken out the policy it felt extra investigation was required. 
Gresham obtained an invoice from the jeweler in the USA and said the serial number 
on it related to a different watch. It said as Mr T had been unable to provide 
substantiation for the watch and given the serial number is incorrect it would need 
further evidence of the model of watch before proceeding.
Mr T brought his complaint to this service and our investigator upheld it. She said 
there was no doubt Mr T owned the watch, she was satisfied hed lost it and was 
covered for that peril. She didnt think it was fair for Gresham to rely only on the need 
for a serial number to decline the claim when this wasnt specified in the terms of the 
policy.
Gresham disagreed and asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
And I set out my reasoning as:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator and Ill explain 
why.
Given the value of the watch, and that the loss occurred within months of the insurance 
being taken out its not unreasonable for Gresham to investigate the claim and seek 
evidence that Mr T owned the watch specified in the schedule.
Under the general conditions of the policy it says:
To help us settle your claim It is your responsibility to prove any loss and therefore we 
may ask you to provide receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and 
guarantee cards and any other relevant information, documents and assistance we may 
require to help with your claim
As part of its investigation Gresham contacted the watch manufacturer and it said the 
serial number of the watch belongs to a different model to what Mr T had said it was. So 
the serial number doesnt relate to the model of watch described in the policy schedule. 
Therefore, I can understand why Gresham has doubts as to the authenticity and value of 
the watch and why it said it needs further evidence of the model of watch claimed for.
The only explanation Ive seen as to why the incorrect serial number is quoted in the sales 
invoice and reciept Mr T has provided is that the jewelers in the USA made a mistake. And 
Ive seen the same incorrect serial number was noted on the transaction form when the 
jeweler acquired the watch in 2020. Given the importance of the unique serial number for 
authentication of this brand of watch, Im not entirely satisfied the watch is genuine. And, 
importantly the correct serial number for a watch of the make and model Mr T is claiming 
for has not been provided.
In its investigation Gresham raised concerns as to the circumstances of the loss which it 
says havent been addressed by Mr T. It states a genuine watch of the make Mr T is 
claiming for has a substantial bracelet and a security clasp system. And it fails to 
understand how the watch would have been lost or someone removed it from Mr Ts wrist 
without him being aware. Whilst unpredictable things can and do happen, and that is one 
reason to insure personal items, it again causes doubt as to whether Mr T owned an 
authentic watch of the value claimed. And the burden of proof falls on him to evidence that 
he owned the specific item he insured and is claiming for.
Mr T has provided no evidence of him having made enquiries about the serial number 
when purchasing the watch. He has provided pictures and videos sent to him by the 
jeweler in the USA in response to his enquiry that he was looking to purchase a specific 
make and model of watch. The video appears to show a watch of that make and model 
but isnt conclusive evidence that Mr T purchased a genuine watch.  
A basic online check of the serial number indicates it relates to a watch manufactured in 
1999. The item described in the schedule is a 2001 model, again causing doubts as to the 
authenticity of the watch. And without the correct serial number Gresham would not be 
able to recover the watch even if it was found.
Mr T tells us he took the watch to a local jeweller in the UK to have some links taken out, 
and has provided pictures of the watch and the links. There is testimony, but no evidence 
that he asked the jeweller to check the serial number to establish if it was a genuine item 
or that it matched the paperwork he said he was given. Mr T is supported in his complaint 
by a legally qualified consultant who tells us he has spoken to the jeweller who removed 
the link, and that they confirmed the make and model. But Ive not seen verifiable 
evidence of this from the jeweller.
Given the propensity for imitations of this brand its not unreasonable to expect Mr T to 
have made some enquiries as to the authenticity of the watch, particularly considering its 
value. And I note Mr T has some experience with this brand having initially offered to use 
another watch as part payment. 
On the evidence Ive seen, Im more persauded that Mr T didnt own a genuine watch of 
the make model and value he insured and has claimed for. And I find it unreasonable to 
expect Gresham to settle a claim for a lost or stolen watch if that watch wasnt as 
described in the schedule of insurance. 
In the overall circustances of this case Im satisfied Gresham has acted reasonably in 
declining the claim.I invited both parties to let me have their further comments.
Replies to the provisional findings
Mr T responded and provided an email exchange with the jeweler in the USA who he 
purchased the watch from and a letter from the UK based jeweller who removed the link 
from the watch. Hes also provided pictures of him wearing the watch and offered to 
provide testimony from another UK based jeweller who saw the watch but didnt carry out 
any formal verification.
Gresham responded and advised it had no further submissions it wished me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, including Mr Ts submissions following the provisional 
decision, Ive reached the same conclusion as in my provisional decision and largely for the 
same reasons.
Its important to note that this service doesnt provide expert opinion on watches, it relies on 
evidence provided by both parties to determine what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. Ive viewed the pictures Mr T has provided and whilst Mr T 
is wearing a watch that may well be of the make and model Mr T has insured, I cannot be 
certain it is. And the pictures do not show the unique serial number as they are located on 
the hub of the watch, concealed by the bracelet.
Ive now seen evidence from the UK jeweller who removed the link in August 2021, it 
confirms that in their opinion it is a genuine watch. This evidence wasnt provided to 
Gresham at the time of the claim and has only now been obtained despite Gresham asking 
Mr T for a letter or invoice from the jeweller when it was investigating the claim. And 
importantly the letter doesnt confirm the unique serial number of the watch. 
The jeweler in the USA says it hasnt made a mistake with the serial number so cannot 
change the invoice it provided to Mr T. It adds that it physically inspected the watch, and the 
serial number was checked against the manufacturers stolen database. The serial number 
of this make is engraved on the watch, and Ive seen evidence from the manufacturer that 
the serial number quoted on the invoice, and therefore presumably the number checked on 
the stolen database, does not belong to the model of watch Mr T insured.
This is a finely balanced case, and I cant be certain if the watch was or wasnt a genuine 
watch of the make and model Mr T insured in September 2021. However, its evidentially not 
the right watch. The unique serial number doesnt match that model of watch and I find this 
persuasive. 
On balance, Im persuaded Gresham has acted reasonably in declining the claim without 
further evidence of the authenticity of the watch or the correct serial number for the watch 
that was lost or stolen. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman