DRN-2726534
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Zenith Insurance plc sold his van without his consent when he 
made a claim for damage under his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr A made a claim for damage to his van to his insurer, Zenith. His van had 
been heavily damaged as a result of a falling tree. 
Zenith arranged for Mr As van to be collected for inspection by an approved repairer. In 
August 2020 Zenith said it wasnt economical to repair Mr As van. Mr A wanted to retain his 
van and so Zenith made a settlement offer taking this into account. 
However, in September 2020 Zenith told Mr A that it had arranged for his car to be sold to a 
salvage agent. So Zenith paid Mr A a total loss settlement of £3,400 for his van (minus the 
excess of £650). 
Mr A raised a complaint with Zenith. He wanted to keep the van until the end of the year until 
he could afford to buy a new one. He wanted Zenith to compensate him for his losses as he 
used the van for work  and for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Zenith apologised for its mistake in selling Mr As van to a salvage agent  as it knew Mr A 
wanted to keep it. For the distress and inconvenience caused, it offered Mr A £500 
compensation. 
Mr A said this wasnt enough and rejected Zeniths offer. He asked us to look at his 
complaint. He said he lost earnings as a result of not having a van to carry out his work.
The investigator asked Mr A if he could provide evidence of loss of earnings. Mr A explained 
that his business had only recently started  and so he couldnt provide any. And he 
explained that the impact of the pandemic had had an effect too. When asked why Mr A 
didnt buy a replacement van with the total loss settlement, he said he had overheads to pay. 
Mr A accepts he had to pay them in any event, but he said he was without a van from 5 July 
2020 until he received a cheque on14 September 2020. 
Our investigator explained that we look at what a business did wrong and whether it put a 
customer back in the position they would have been in, had the error not happened. In this 
case, as Mr As van was sold, Zenith couldnt return it as he wanted. 
So he considered what Zenith had done instead  as it accepted it made a mistake. It paid 
Mr A a total loss settlement reflecting a fair market value to replace the van. And for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim, it paid him £500 
compensation. 
The investigator pointed out that as Mr As van was categorised as having structural 
damage, Mr A would have had to arrange repairs and re-registered the van with the DVLA 
as it was deemed unroadworthy even if Zenith had returned it to him. So overall the 
investigator thought Zenith had done enough to resolve the complaint.
Mr A didnt agree and believed some of the information relating to his case hadnt been 
taken into account. Our investigator assured Mr A that it had, when reaching his view. 
Mr A wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Zeniths handling of the claim was poor. It acknowledged Mr As 
request to retain the van  but it failed to act on this until it was too late. The salvage agent 
advised Zenith the van had been sold. So Zenith couldnt return Mr As van to him. 
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact of the mistake was and what a business 
did to put things right and whether it was fair and reasonable. 
In this case, as Zenith couldnt return Mr As van to him, it settled his claim by paying him a 
fair market value for it. I think this was the only reasonable approach for Zenith to take as a 
starting point.
I cant consider Mr As claim for financial loss. Ive considered what hes told us about his 
business. I sympathise with him in that some of the impact on his business was related to 
the pandemic. These effects would have been outside of Zeniths control. When Zenith paid 
Mr A a total loss settlement, I think Mr A was in a position to mitigate his losses by buying a 
replacement vehicle to enable him to continue working.
From the engineers report, the damage to Mr As van was significant. The categorisation of 
the damage was recorded as structural. So this means that  even if Mr A had retained his 
van  he would have been put to the time and trouble of arranging extensive repairs in order 
for make his van roadworthy again. 
Its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience when having to make a claim. The 
damage to Mr As van meant he would have had to arrange for extensive repairs before he 
could use it again  or spend time looking to buy a replacement van. Unfortunately some 
inconvenience would have been unavoidable either way.
But Ive no doubt that Zeniths error in failing to return Mr As van to him caused Mr A 
inconvenience over and above what would be reasonably expected when having to make a 
claim. However, in line with awards we give for similar cases, I think the compensation 
Zenith offered Mr A of £500 for its poor handling was fair and reasonable. 
I understand Mr A will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think Zenith needs to increase the compensation amount of £500 it already offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think the compensation Zenith Insurance plc offered Mr A to 
resolve his complaint is reasonable. This means Im not upholding his complaint. If it hasnt already paid the £500 compensation, Zenith Insurance plc must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Zenith Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman