DRN-1199152
 Complaint
Mrs H complained that mistakes made by Barclays Bank plc (Barclays) in security questions 
led to stress and inconvenience and its offer of compensation was too low. 
 Background
Mrs H complained that Barclays blocked her bank account due to the fact it had incorrectly 
said that she failed security questions. This led her to having to visit the branch to identify 
herself causing stress and inconvenience.   
Mrs H was trying to obtain a code for a new card. On ringing Barclays she was asked a 
series of questions as part of its identification process. Barclays, during the call couldnt 
satisfy itself  that she was the account holder saying she had failed two security questions. 
Barclays then blocked her account.
Mrs H was upset with this decision and was told she needed to visit her local branch to 
complete the verification and have the account unblocked. This she did the following day.
Barclays has since accepted that it made an error in her getting one of the security questions 
wrong and overall it could have handled things better. It offered a compensation payment of 
£75 to cover the inconvenience and a further £25 to cover the costs of having to visit the 
branch.  Mrs H feels this is not enough and doesnt reflect the stress and inconvenience she 
went through. The matter was then referred to this service. 
The investigator gathered all the relevant information available in considering this case.
The investigator didnt uphold the claim feeling that while Barclays had made some errors, it 
had apologized and offered a fair compensation payment to Mrs H. She felt that Barclays 
had the right to ask security questions as part of their terms and conditions but recognized 
that Barclays on this occasion had not handled the situation as well as it might.
She explained that she felt the offer of compensation was in line with what she would expect 
to see given the circumstances.
Mrs H was upset with the outcome and the matter was referred to an Ombudsman for a 
decision.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman