DRN-4449296
Complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued allowing him to 
use an overdraft even when he was trapped into continually using the facility.
Background
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ms complaint and he thought that HSBC hadnt acted 
unfairly in relation to Mr Ms overdraft. So he didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
My provisional decision of 30 October 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 30 October 2023 - setting out why I was intending to 
partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
In summary, I thought that Mr Ms complaint should be partially upheld because HSBC ought 
reasonably to have realised that Mr Ms overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable 
for him by July 2018 and therefore should not have continued offering the facility on the 
same terms. 
HSBC continuing to offer the overdraft to Mr M in this way, was a reason why it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr M.
I then set out a method of putting things right which I considered addressed HSBCs 
shortcomings and Mr Ms resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M confirmed that he accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide anything further 
to me to consider.
HSBC disagreed with my provisional decision stating:
There was evidence to suggest that much of Mr Ms spending was non-essential.
On review of the transactions, it did not believe that Mr M was a hardcore borrower 
but rather that he was spending in a manner that prevented him from repaying his 
overdraft.
It referred to another ombudsman decision where a similar complaint had been 
rejected.
HSBC has no control over how a customer chooses to use their overdraft facility, it 
advises customers that an overdraft is a short-term facility and its multiple attempts to 
contact Mr M indicate that it recognised his usage. And as Mr M didnt get in touch 
despite the letters, HSBC should not be held responsible for his spending choices.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered HSBCs response to my provisional decision. But having done so, as well as 
considering everything else provided from the outset, Ive not been persuaded to depart from 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and Im still partially upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im satisfied that HSBC acted unfairly when 
it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from July 2018 onwards. While 
Mr M might not have got in touch to confirm this, nonetheless his overdraft usage by this 
point made it evident that the facility had become demonstrably unsustainable for him. 
A cursory look at his statements leading up to this period shows that Mr M had been 
hardcore borrowing for an extended period. And the transactions taking place on Mr Ms 
account indicated that there was little prospect of him being able to repay what he owed 
without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
I primarily say this because he barely spent any time in a credit balance even after hed 
received his salary. And his pattern of borrowing showed that Mr M had no strategy to exit 
using his overdraft, which was meant to be for short -term use, over the longer term.
HSBC has now referred to particular transactions on Mr Ms accounts. Ive reviewed 
transactions in question. The first of which was already three months after I think HSBC 
should have stepped in and corrected Mr Ms overdraft. The next time was some two years 
after this and following this the rest of the transactions are in 2021 and 2022. So even if it 
could be argued that when taken individually and isolation some of the transactions HSBC 
has referred to can be questioned this all happened after the period in question. 
And notwithstanding the fact that I dont agree with HSBCs arguments, in my view, the 
sporadic nature of the transactions referred to suggest that they are unlikely to be the 
problem here given just how long Mr M had stayed overdrawn, I nonetheless fail to see how 
and why these transactions make a difference to what happened before then.
Ive also seen that HSBC is relying on having sent Mr M a number of letters telling him that 
he was using an overdraft in a way that was expensive and that he should get in contact if 
he was experiencing difficulty. As I understand it, it then sent further letters and 
communications from 2020 onwards as a result of the regulators repeat overdraft use rules. 
HSBC says that Mr M should have reached out if he was struggling.
Ive thought about what HSBC has said. But the mere fact that it felt the need to send Mr M 
so many letters within such a period means that it recognised that there was a problem with 
Mr Ms overdraft usage. Since my provisional decision HSBC has confirmed that this is the 
case.
If I take HSBCs argument to its logical conclusion here, I see it as being that it acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr M because it sent him letters as it had identified that his 
overdraft usage had become a problem. But because Mr M didnt respond to the letters it was reasonable to continue allowing him to use his overdraft in the same way, 
notwithstanding that it had identified his use of his overdraft as being problematic. 
Indeed, HSBC goes even further than that in its response to my provisional decision. It says 
Mr M wasnt a hardcore borrower, he was merely spending in a way that prevented him from 
repaying his overdraft. Im not sure I necessarily agree with HSBC on this matter. But even 
leaving my concern to one side, HSBC accepts that Mr M was providing unable to repay his 
overdraft. And given that this had gone on for some time, its clear that he was failing to 
repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of time, which is what he was required to do 
under the regulators rules.
 
Simply continuing to send letters in the same way, regardless of the unfolding 
circumstances, ignores the fact that there comes a point where a lender cannot continue 
simply relying on a borrower not wanting to discuss the situation. After all there are many 
reasons why a consumer might not want to get into discussions about their finances even 
though theyre in a situation where theyre struggling, or they may even go further and say 
they can and will make payment when the reality is they cant. 
While Mr M didnt contact HSBC, most likely because he didnt realise the impact failing to 
deal with the matter at hand was having, I dont think it was reasonable for HSBC to 
conclude that hed be able to clear the unsustainable debt he appeared to be in. And in 
these circumstances, as a responsible lender, while HSBC couldnt control what Mr M was 
spending the money on, as it was HSBCs money that Mr M was spending, which he was 
then proving unable to repay within a reasonable period of time as required to, it was 
incumbent upon HSBC to take action. 
Ive seen what HSBC has said about receiving a contradictory decision from a different 
ombudsman on another case. I dont know whether the decision contradicts the final 
decision I have reached on this case. But in any event, each case is considered individually 
and on its own merits. And Im satisfied that the outcome I have reached on this case is 
compatible with the rules, guidance and good industry practice in place at the time Mr M was 
borrowing from HSBC. 
So notwithstanding what HSBC might have been told on another case, Im satisfied that this 
should not and does not change my mind on this particular case which has been brought by 
Mr M.
Overall and having considered HSBCs further arguments, I remain satisfied that it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards Mr M by not taking corrective action in relation to his 
overdraft, when it ought to have realised he was struggling to repay what had become a 
problem debt by July 2018 at the latest. 
Mr M ended up paying interest, fees and charges at a time when his overdraft was already 
unsustainable. So Im satisfied that Mr M lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and 
therefore HSBC needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from July 2018 onwards are removed.
ANDIf an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan,     
Mr M is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ms credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in July 2018. 
HSBC can also reduce Mr Ms overdraft limit by the amount of any refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over his 
limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr Ms overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman