DRN-4332050
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr H was in a car accident in December 2022, and he made a claim to LV. Mr H explained 
to LV what happened - he reversed out of his drive, waited for a break in the traffic and then 
continued to move out slowly to join the main road. This is when the third party hit his vehicle 
as she came from a side road onto the main road Mr H was reversing onto. Mr H said there 
was no damage to his vehicle, and hes been told by two separate garages that he visited 
with the third party that her car wouldnt have been damage to that extent without some 
damage being present on his vehicle. He also says the third-party told him she was on her 
way to work but when he saw the certificate of insurance it didnt cover commuting. 
LV was also given the third-party drivers version from her insurer which stated Mr H 
reversed from his driveway and it was Mr H who was at fault.
LV was satisfied the third party had right of way and Mr H had the greater duty of care 
reversing off his drive onto the main road. It considered the Highway Code in reaching this 
conclusion. Further, as the damage to the third partys vehicle was on the nearside front 
door, it considered the third party must have been almost fully established in the lane. As a 
result of this, and the vehicle damage, LV accepted liability for the third partys claim.
Mr H complained about this to LV as he felt he was being harshly penalised. He considers 
the greater duty of care was owed by the third party pulling onto a main road and didnt 
agree the third party had right of way as he was already off his drive, over the pavement 
area in line with the grass verge with his reversing lights on. LV didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint, so he came to this service for an independent review.
The Investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They explained LV 
was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit, in accordance with the policy terms. And they 
hadnt seen any evidence to show the action taken by LV was unfair. Mr H disagreed. He 
says the third party wouldnt have been fully established in the lane and sent videos showing 
vehicles making the same manoeuvre as the third party had in the same location. The third 
party failed to see his car - he reverses in the same way every day and doesnt agree they 
had the right of way. 
This matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
consider are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, Im satisfied the 
Investigator reached a fair outcome here. So, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in this matter. 
Ill explain why.
Firstly, I acknowledge Mr H has strong views about what happened in the accident. But its 
not the role of this Service to determine who is responsible for an accident  decisions on 
this are best dealt with by a court of law. 
What Im deciding in this matter is whether LV has acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy which set out the agreement between the parties. And Im satisfied it 
did. I say this because the terms allow LV to conduct, defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. 
It therefore doesnt need Mr Hs approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or 
make a payment to a third party. That might mean it makes a decision the policyholder 
disagrees with. For example, it may not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the 
third party or their insurer. I have, however, gone onto to consider whether LV made a fair 
and reasonable decision in settling the claim as it did, based on the evidence it had and the 
circumstances of the case.
LV explained it accepted liability for the third partys claim on Mr Hs policy based on the 
vehicles damage and what each party said, including the evidence from Mr H. Having taken 
this into account, along with the Highway Code, it was satisfied the greater duty of care was 
on Mr H as the party reversing onto the main road. It also has experience of how courts view 
such matters and the likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case and wouldve taken this 
into account. Whilst Mr H doesnt agree with this approach, LV didnt consider it was a case 
it would win so accepted liability. And, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded LV 
was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it did this.
I understand Mr H is concerned the damaged being claimed for isnt wholly as a result of the 
accident he had with the third party as he was told this by two garages. But I havent seen 
any independent evidence of this. And, as explained above, its ultimately for LV to decide 
how to settle the claim, acting fairly and reasonably. Even so, LV confirmed it has taken 
these comments on board and would consider them alongside the vehicle damage being 
claimed. I consider this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
In summary, I wont be asking LV to do anything to put things right in relation to this matter.
Finally, Im aware Mr H refers to the third party not being insured for commuting. But this is 
an issue for the third party (and their insurer) rather than one which impacts Mr Hs 
complaint in this matter against LV and its handling of the third partys claim on his policy.
I recognise Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with LV  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman