DRN-4374822
The complaint
Mr O complains about Finance Advice Group Limited (FAG) who declined his claim under 
his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O purchased a policy with the assistance of his broker FAG (that was annually renewed) 
since 2019. His partner lost a ring inside their home and despite their best efforts, they were 
unable to locate it. Mr O made a claim against his policy. During the investigation of the 
claim, it was found that Mr O had lost the ring inside his home.  Mr Os insurers said that as 
the ring was lost inside the home and Mr O hadnt selected personal possession cover 
(PPC), the claim would be declined. 
Mr O said that during the sales process he was led to believe that PPC, was covered. He felt 
that the decision to decline his claim was unjust and unfair, so he complained to FAG on the 
basis that the policy was mis-sold. In its final response, although it sympathised with Mr O, it 
said that as he hadnt chosen to upgrade his policy with PPC and pay the additional 
premium, there was no cover for the loss of the ring. So, its decision to decline was correct. 
As Mr O had been given his referral rights, he referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that the 
evidence that he reviewed, didnt support that the policy was mis-sold. He said that the 
policy documents made it clear that as Mr O hadnt selected PPC and as the ring was lost, 
there was no cover under the policy. He agreed that the decision to decline the claim was 
reasonable. 
FAG accepted the view, Mr O did not. He believed that he had selected PPC. He said that in 
any event, the policy allowed cover for items that were valued up to £2,500. And as FAG had 
specifically mentioned to him that any item under the value of £2,500, would be included, 
regardless of whether he selected PPC or not, he felt it was unfair that the claim was 
declined. He also said that as the ring was valued less than the £2,500, it ought to be 
covered. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr O, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. I think the main 
issue of this complaint is whether FAG mis-sold the policy.
Mr O explained that his partners ring was lost inside their home. Despite their best efforts, 
they were unable to find the ring and made a claim under the policy. FAG said that the policy 
terms and conditions dont cover loss of the ring, as Mr O didnt purchase the additional 
PPC. 
Ive had a look at the policy terms and conditions to see what is and is not covered under the 
policy. Its fair to say that Mr O didnt select PPC, which I understand wouldve attracted an 
increased premium. 
FAG said that had Mr O selected the PPC, the ring wouldve been covered under the policy. 
But as he hadnt, he wouldve had to prove that the loss occurred under another insured 
peril, for example, theft. The policy states:
Your contents are covered for loss or damage by the following causes: 1 Fire, smoke, 
explosion, lightning or earthquake. 2 Riots, civil commotion, labour and political disturbances 
or strikes 3 Malicious damage or vandalism, theft, storm or flood.
I note that Mr O had initially taken the policy out in 2019 and had renewed the policy each 
year. I have reviewed the policy documents and I cant see that Mr O selected the additional 
cover of PPC or any other additional cover.  
I think that the policy terms are clear and unambiguous and meant that unless that additional 
cover is selected, only the listed insured perils, are covered for items up to a value of £2,500. 
I understand that Mr O said that he believed that he selected the additional cover. However, 
none of the policy documents indicate this. Furthermore, I can see that Mr O was sent those 
documents annually, at renewal. And we would expect a consumer to check the policy at 
each renewal, to ensure that it was sufficient for their needs. I cant see any evidence to 
support that Mr O did this. 
Ive asked FAG for a copy of the sales call in 2019, to see whether Mr O asked for PPC. 
FAG said that given the passage of time, there was no copy of the sales call. Given that Mr 
O was sent the policy documents on an annual basis, over several years, and I wouldve 
expected Mr O to check his documents on receipt,  Im not persuaded that Mr O has 
provided me with enough evidence to support that he was mis-sold the policy. 
Accordingly, as Im not persuaded that there was enough evidence to conclude that the 
policy was mis-sold, I dont think that the claim was unreasonably or unfairly declined. Given 
that the loss occurred inside the home, which wasnt covered under the policy. 
I acknowledge Mr Os strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he 
referred it to our service. I understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to 
Mr O. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to 
show that FAG acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman