DRN-3167845
The complaint
Mr L says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr L took out two guarantor loans from TFS. A summary of his borrowing follows.
loan taken outvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 27/04/2018 7,500 48 288.13 13,830.24
2 06/05/2019 10,000 48 384.17 18,440.16
He says the lender did not carry out effective checks and had it done so it would have seen
the loans were not affordable.
The investigator said TFS was wrong to give both loans to Mr L. She said the credit checks 
the lender completed showed Mr L was having financial difficulties and would be unlikely to 
be able to sustainably repay either loan.
TFS disagreed saying, in summary, it had asked Mr L about his previous defaults and 
County Court Judgments (CCJ) and taken into account all the related payments. And with 
loan 2 Mr L was going to repay another more expensive loan thus decreasing his 
expenditure on debt.
As an agreement wasnt reached the case was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when TFS lent to Mr L required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr L. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr L. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ls loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did TFS make fair lending decisions?
- did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see TFS asked for some information from Mr L before it approved the loans. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It completed income verification
with a third party to check his minimum income for the first loan, and it checked it against 
recent payslips for his second loan. It added a 15% buffer to his declared expenses for loan 
1 and £100 for loan 2. For loan 2 it also checked his declared expenses against national 
statistics. 
It then checked Mr Ls credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments at 
the time of both applications and his credit history. It asked about the purpose of the loans 
which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined TFS concluded Mr L had 
sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford the loans.
Given the term, values and monthly repayments of the loans I dont think these checks were 
proportionate. Mr L was making a long-term commitment and given the size of the loans and 
the results of the credit checks l think TFS needed to do more to independently verify the 
actual state of Mr Ls finances before agreeing to lend. However I wont comment further on 
this as even based on the information it gathered I dont think TFS made fair lending 
decisions. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
The results from the credit check showed TFS that Mr L had two CCJs registered against 
him, one as recently as 9 January 2018. There were also three defaulted accounts and 
whilst two were historic and settled, one had defaulted as recently as 21 January 2018 and 
remained unpaid. He had also entered into an arrangement to pay for the overdraft on his 
current account in March 2018. And he was in arrears on a mail order account. So there were clear signs his finances were under pressure as he was failing to make timely 
repayments to multiple existing credit commitments. 
TFS argues that it asked about this adverse information and Mr L gave reasons, but Im not 
persuaded this means it was fair for it to go ahead and lend. I cant see it verified his 
explanations in anyway: it hasnt evidenced that it quantified his temporary reduction in 
income due to illness, or the cost of the unexpected car repairs, to make sure these were 
valid reasons for his poor repayment history on certain debts. It seems once it had 
Mr L's explanation it was happy to proceed, without checking the credibility and plausibility of 
his answers. I dont find this to be responsible in the circumstances of this case.  
I note the purpose of loan 1 was to repay a more expensive loan that it seems Mr L was 
currently repaying at £374 a month. But he would still be left with repayments on another 
loan, a home credit agreement and a hire purchase agreement that in addition to this loan 
would mean he had to commit a significant proportion of his income to service his debt. 
So I think in the round the results of the credit check ought to have alerted TFS to the fact 
there was a high risk Mr L would be unable to sustainably repay loan 1. It follows I think TFS 
was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr L.
Loan 2    
Mr L applied to refinance and increase his borrowing from TFS only around a year after loan 
1. In this time the results from the credit check showed Mr Ls overall unsecured 
indebtedness had increased from £14,739 to £17,212. Whilst Mr L had settled one of the 
CCJs registered against him, he had defaulted on two additional accounts: his current 
account in May 2018 and a mail order account in July 2018. He had also entered into two 
new arrangements to pay, one on his hire purchase agreement between February and 
March 2019 and one on his home credit agreement in December 2018. So I think it was 
clear that Mr L was still having problems managing his money.
TFS argues that Mr L was going to use the money for debt consolidation so he was 
decreasing his expenditure, but this was also the purpose of loan 1 and it could clearly see 
that his overall financial position had not improved as a result. Whilst loan 2 may have 
reduced his monthly outgoings on credit, it was prolonging his use of high cost credit and 
significantly increasing his total indebtedness, so I think TFS ought to have been concerned 
that this would be harmful for Mr L given the indicators of financial difficulties that were 
already evident on his credit check.
So, as with loan 1, I think the results of the credit check ought to have alerted TFS to the fact 
there was a high risk Mr L would be unable to sustainably repay loan 2. It follows I think TFS 
was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr L.
I havent found any evidence that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
towards Mr L.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It should:Add up the total amount Mr L received as result of being given loans 1 and 2. The 
repayments Mr L made should be deducted from this amount. 
If reworking Mr Ls loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ls loan accounts results in there being an outstanding capital
balance the lender should agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ls complaint. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman