DRN-2135769
The complaint
Mr Es complaint concerns a request he made to Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Rosinca 
Mortgages) to extend the term of two of his buy to let (BTL) mortgages.
What Ive decided  and why 
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020, the findings of which were:
Im conscious Ive condensed the events of the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by 
this; its merely a reflection of the informal nature of our service. I assure Mr E and 
Rosinca that Ive thoroughly reviewed everything theyve both said.
The root of the complaint is that Mr E doesnt want to repay two of his BTL mortgages at 
the end of the agreed mortgage terms. Although he has the means to repay the 
mortgages (by selling the properties) he wants to extend the terms for another six years. 
In resolving complaints, we determine whats fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of the case. Its important to bear in mind that Mr E agreed to repay the 
mortgages at the end of the terms when he took them out. Hes obliged to do so, and 
thats the starting point in determining whats fair in this case.
Its also important to bear in mind that Mr E isnt living in either of these properties so hes 
not going to be made homeless if the properties have to be sold. Financial hardship isnt 
what drives Mr Es desire for the term extensions. He has the BTL properties he can sell - 
or he can remortgage to a new lender - to repay the money he owes; its just that he 
prefers not to. I can understand that, but not allowing him to do this isnt unfair treatment 
by Rosinca. Put simply, Mr E doesnt have a right or an entitlement to a term extension for 
the two BTL mortgages.
That said, I agree that Rosinca should have told Mr E that in its letters replying to his 
request, rather than telling him to phone and thus raising his expectations. Having 
considered everything Im satisfied Rosincas offer of £50 is fair and reasonable for that 
mistake.
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party made any new submissions. Ive reviewed everything carefully and considered 
the case afresh, but my opinion hasnt changed. Ive reached the same findings and for the 
same reasons as I set out in my provisional decision
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman