DRN-2347769
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with his complaint about a survey for his property. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr A bought a property with the help of a mortgage from Nationwide in 2018. A surveyor was 
used as part of the process, who said that the roof needed repair, but it wasnt urgent or 
serious. Within 18 months of the purchase, Mr A noticed that the roof had holes, which was 
causing various issues, including a drop in temperature. Mr A got quotes for the repair work 
and asked Nationwide to complain to the surveyor on his behalf in 2020. He said that 
Nationwide said it had done this, but Mr A believed that it hadnt. Mr A felt lots of time had 
been lost where the roof couldve been repaired. 
Mr A complained. Nationwide said it did raise a complaint for Mr M in February 2020 but it 
was for Mr A to pursue the matter. It explained that while Mr A had both a mortgage 
valuation and a HomeBuyers report, Nationwide only received the mortgage valuation as 
that was all that was relevant for its purposes. It explained that the HomeBuyers report was 
a separate agreement between Mr A and the surveyor, so Nationwide wasnt at fault. It paid 
£50 compensation to failing to call Mr A as he expected; Nationwide paid a further £25 as an 
apology.
Mr A complained to us and explained that his health was worsened by the cold. The 
investigators view was that Nationwide relied on an independent expert surveyors view 
when dealing with the mortgage application as it was a lender, not a surveyor. She said that 
the surveyor used was suitably qualified and Nationwide wasnt responsible for his actions. 
The mortgage valuation was the only report Nationwide saw, which didnt highlight any 
issues, so the investigator said it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to rely on it. She 
also thought Nationwide had raised Mr As complaint with the surveyor when it said, and 
didnt think it was at fault.
Mr A disagreed. He said that the surveyor had now agreed to compensate him, but he felt 
Nationwide had acted dishonestly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained to Mr A, this service cant look into complaints handling as 
it isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service, though I will look at whether 
Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Nationwide as a lender acted fairly and reasonably in relying on the opinion of an 
independent expert surveyor who was suitably qualified  it isnt responsible if the surveyor 
was incorrect in his advice. Nationwide only saw the mortgage valuation report, which didnt 
highlight any concerns  the HomeBuyers report was an additional arrangement between 
Mr A and the surveyor. I cant say that Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying 
on the mortgage valuation report or is responsible for the surveyors actions.
Following Mr As complaint to Nationwide, I can see from the notes written at the time (on 
which I place weight as they were written at that time), Nationwide did pass on the complaint 
to the surveyor in February 2020. This was a courtesy as Mr As arrangement for the 
HomeBuyers report was with the surveyor and not Nationwide. I can see Nationwide chased 
again in April. I dont see any evidence that its been dishonest. 
I also think the £75 compensation paid for the service issues is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances as Mr A is much more upset about his roof, something for which I havent 
found Nationwide to be at fault; these failings caused minor trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
29 December 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman