DRN-1303603
 
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr R complain about problems when they applied to re-mortgage with Nationwide 
Building Society. They ask that Nationwide pays compensation and refunds the product fee 
they paid to their current lender.
What happened
In mid-2019 Mrs F and Mr R applied to Nationwide for a mortgage. They say Nationwide 
caused delays. They say it searched their credit files without their consent, which had an 
adverse effect on their credit score. They say it reduced the amount it would lend without 
explanation.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Nationwide didnt 
cause any unnecessary delays with Mrs F and Mr Rs mortgage application. Its required to 
check that repayments are affordable. It reduced the amount it was prepared to lend based 
on information it received about Mrs F and Mr Rs income and outgoings. The investigator 
said Nationwide had agreed to remove the additional credit searches and paid £200 
compensation for the inconvenience caused, which was fair. It wasnt fair to require 
Nationwide to compensate Mrs F and Mr R for the fee they paid to their current lender.
Mrs F and Mr R didnt agree. Mrs F said Nationwide didnt tell them why it reduced what it 
would lend or give them an opportunity to provide additional information. Mrs F said when 
she called Nationwide it was unable to explain what was happening and was patronising and 
rude. She says they provided evidence their income was higher than theyd said when they 
were issued with the decision in principle, so they cant understand why Nationwide reduced 
the amount it would lend.
When the complaint was passed to me, Mrs F said the searches still showed on her credit 
record. I asked Nationwide about this. It updated Mrs F and Mr Rs credit files and offered a 
further £100 compensation. Mrs F and Mr R didnt accept this. Mrs F said the unreasonable 
number of searches was a data breach, and not rectifying this was a further breach. She 
said the compensation offered wasnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mrs F and Mr Rs mortgage product with their current lender was due to end. They applied to 
Nationwide in mid July 2019 for a mortgage. Nationwide declined to lend them the amount 
they needed to borrow. 
Mrs F and Mr R applied to Nationwide online and received a decision in principle (DIP) for 
£145,000. The DIP says its not an offer of a mortgage and is subject to Nationwides lending 
criteria. Mrs F and Mr R were asked to provide documents evidencing their income.
Nationwide reduced the amount it said it would lend and asked for further documents as 
evidence of income. On 12 August 2019, it told Mrs F and Mr R that the loan amount theyd 
asked for wasnt affordable. It said the maximum amount it would lend was £116,000. 
Mrs F says, if anything, she under-declared their income in the application. I appreciate her 
frustration that they were not offered the loan they wanted, despite providing documents. But 
Nationwide has criteria for assessing affordability, including how it treats different types of 
income, such as basic salary, second incomes, bonuses and profit shares, and what 
evidence it accepts.
Mrs F disputes how Nationwide assessed their income and affordability. But the difference 
between the amount Nationwide was prepared to lend (£116,000) and the amount Mrs F and 
Mr R needed to borrow (£145,000) was significant. Nationwide is entitled to assess the 
application using its own criteria. But even if (as Mrs F says it should) Nationwide assessed 
some of their income or outgoings differently it seems unlikely it would have offered the 
amount they want.
Nationwide told Mrs F and Mr R the amount they wanted to borrow wasnt affordable. Mrs F 
doesnt agree with this. But I dont think its fair to say Nationwide didnt give them an 
explanation for not offering the loan they wanted.
Nationwide accepts there were delays in some of the documents Mrs F uploaded being 
added to her application, resulting in her loading them more than once. But I dont think, 
overall, Nationwide took an unreasonable amount of time to assess Mrs F and Mr Rs 
application and tell them it couldnt lend the amount they needed.
Mrs F and Mr R only expected one search to be recorded on their credit files. Nationwide 
said it would remove the additional searches from Mrs F and Mr Rs credit files. 
Whether the searches breached relevant laws is a matter for a court to decide. Or Mrs F and 
Mr R could consider contacting the Information Commissioners office. We offer an informal 
dispute resolution service. If we think a business has made an error, we ask it to put matters 
right. In doing so, we consider what effect the error had on the customer and what 
compensation (if any) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs F says theyve lost out financially. But the available evidence doesnt support this. 
Mrs F and Mr R took out a new mortgage product with their current lender. They paid a 
product fee to their lender so that they would have the benefit of the product rate. I dont 
consider this to be a loss, and I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
require Nationwide to pay compensation for the product fee.
I havent seen evidence that Mrs F and Mr R suffered financial loss due to problems loading 
documents during the application process, or due to the searches on their credit files. But I 
can understand that this caused inconvenience and upset. I think Nationwides offer of £200 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The additional searches werent removed from Mrs F and Mr Rs credit files until mid-2020. 
Nationwide says it cant say with certainty who was responsible for the delay. Its now 
confirmed the searches have been removed and offered £100 additional compensation, 
which I think is fair and reasonable. I know Mrs F doesnt think the compensation offered by 
Nationwide is enough. But its now for Mrs F and Mr R to decide whether to accept this.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman