DRN-4109990
The complaint
Mr J complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited has declined his insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
Mr J had a Home and Contents insurance policy with Fairmead, that hed renewed for the 
period of September 2021 to September 2022. In early September 2022 Mr J said the ceiling 
in his dining room fell down. Mr J said the cause of this was from an escape of water that his  
plumber said was from a cracked tile in his shower. He said the plumber replaced the tile to 
prevent further damage. Mr J said he made a claim against his insurance policy for the 
damage to his ceiling to be repaired. Fairmead declined Mr Js claim as they said the escape  
of water was caused by failed sealant/grout which was excluded under the policy. Mr J 
complained to Fairmead as he said the cause of the water escape was a cracked tile that 
had been accidentally damaged and so should be covered under his policy. 
Fairmead said the claim was declined because of failed sealant/grout which was excluded 
from Mr Js policy. And for them to be able to consider Mr Js claim under another section of 
the policy they needed to see the damage prior to repair. But they acknowledged there had 
been some unnecessary delay and offered Mr J £100 to compensate him for this.
Mr J wasnt happy with Fairmeads response as he reiterated the cracked tile was the cause 
of the water escape, and he was covered under his policy for accidental damage. He 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr J hadnt shown the cause of the escape of water was from an  
insured risk, and so the indirect loss from the damage this caused wasnt covered under    
Mr Js policy. He said the £100 offered for the delay was fair and reasonable.
Mr J didnt agree, he said he had to get the cracked tile replaced to prevent further damage, 
and it wasnt fair that his claim was declined as he hadnt kept the damaged tile after it was 
repaired. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr J, while I empathise with the position he finds 
himself in, for me to say Fairmead must do something different I must first be satisfied they 
declined his claim unfairly I cant see that they have here which is why I wont be asking 
them to do anything else. Ill explain why.
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must show they have a valid 
claim, meaning an insured event happened that caused them damage or a loss. Insurable 
events are listed in the policy and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might 
happen. Only damage caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will 
be covered. If the damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer 
must pay the claim unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. 
Having looked at everything, I dont think Mr J has shown, on balance, that the damage was 
most likely caused by a one-off insured event. 
I can see from Fairmeads records that when Mr J made his claim against his insurance 
policy it was for the collapse of his dining room ceiling. On first reporting the incident Mr J 
said the most likely cause of the ceiling collapse was water escaping from faulty bath seals. 
He also said hed had a plumber repair the seals.  Fairmead advised Mr J that damage 
caused by wear & tear, maintenance and age-related issues werent covered. They also said 
Mr J should get a report from the plumber and plasterer for them to be able to determine the 
cause of the ceiling collapse for them to consider his claim.
I can see  from Mr Js policy that under his building cover he was insured for loss or damage 
caused by:
Escape of water from any washing machine, dishwasher or plumbed in domestic water or 
heating installation.
So an escape of water is covered under Mr Js policy but there are a number of exclusions 
that can be applied. One of which is:
Loss or damage caused by the failure or lack of grout and/or sealant in your home
And its this exclusion that Fairmead has relied on in declining Mr Js claim. I dont think this 
term is unusual for policies of this type and I can see from Fairmeads records that when    
Mr J made his claim against his insurance policy in mid-September 2022, he said hed had a 
plumber come out whod repaired the seals and that this was the probable cause. 
After Mr J was asked to provide a report from the plumber, I can see the invoice for the 
repair work to Mr Js shower said there wasnt any leak from the pipework. And that the most 
likely source of the water leak was from a cracked tile which was replaced. I can also see the 
plumber applied new sealant.
I dont think Fairmead acted unreasonably by basing their declinature on Mr Js account that 
failed seals were the cause and the plumber applying new sealant.  But  Mr J has since said 
the leak wasnt caused by failed sealant or grout but from the cracked tile. The invoice from 
the plumber gave the most likely cause of the water leak was from the cracked tile. 
Mr J said the damage to the tile happened accidentally when hed dropped something whilst 
in the shower. Accidental damage is covered under Mr Js policy and is defined as Sudden, 
unintentional and unexpected physical damage that can be seen.. So, to validate his claim 
Mr J would need to show the damage was caused accidentally as defined. But Mr J doesnt 
know precisely how the cracked tile was damaged only saying it was most likely caused by 
his dropping something in the shower.
I can see that Fairmead said that although Mr Js account of what the cause had changed 
they would be willing to reassess the claim under another policy term, accidental damage, if 
they were provided with evidence of the damage before the repair. As Mr J doesnt know 
when or how the damage happened, I dont think its unfair of Fairmead to ask for evidence 
that could show the damage was caused by an insured event (accidental damage). Under 
Mr Js policy there are obligations he has when making a claim to:
tell Fairmead as soon as reasonably possible and to give them the full details;as soon as reasonably possible after the damage, to provide Fairmead with details of
the claim, including any detailed particulars, proofs or certificates, or original 
valuations, receipts or proofs of purchases pre-dating the loss, or other documents 
that they may reasonably require;
retain any damaged contents or parts of buildings so that they can be inspected by 
Fairmead; and 
give Fairmead any information and assistance that they might reasonably require.
I can understand Mr J instructing his own plumber as he said the repair was an emergency 
replacement of the cracked tile, to prevent further leakage and to avoid further damage to 
the property. I can see from the records that this wasnt Mr Js only shower, so he did have 
the option not to use the shower thereby preventing any further escape of water while an 
insurance claim was assessed. I can also see that Mr J had the repairs done several days 
before he reported the incident to Fairmead which meant they didnt have the opportunity to 
assess the cause of the damage before repair. 
As mentioned previously for an insurance claim to be successful it would be for Mr J to show 
an insured event had happened that caused the damage. While the most likely cause of the 
leak was a cracked tile, Im not satisfied that Mr J has shown the damage was caused 
accidentally, as there could be some other cause such as gradual wear and tear, which is an 
exclusion under the policy terms.. So, I dont think Fairmead has acted unfairly by not 
considering Mr Js claim under the insured event  accidental damage as Mr J hasnt shown 
hed a valid claim. And I dont think Fairmead has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining 
Mr Js claim on the basis of his first account that the escape of water was caused by failing 
seals. 
Fairmead has said there had been delays of several days in responding to Mr Js emails and 
hed been kept waiting for over an hour when he tried to call them. Fairmead offered    Mr J 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused which I think is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Fairmead Insurance Limited has offered  Mr J £100 to settle this complaint. I think thats fair 
in all the circumstances, so I dont require Fairmead to do anything more to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman