DRN-3221779
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Lloyds Insurance Company SA (Lloyds) has declined their 
travel insurance claim.  
Any reference to Lloyds includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out an annual travel insurance policy on 9 April 2019 through a broker. 
The policy is underwritten by Lloyds Insurance Company SA. They paid a premium of 
£117.98 for the policy.
They booked a trip on 27 January 2020. The intended dates of travel were from 8 April 2020 
to 17 April 2020.
On 14 March 2020, the government of the country Mr and Mrs B were intending to travel to, 
declared a state of emergency and introduced a series of measures which included 
significant restrictions on movement in response to the Covid-19 outbreak. 
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to that 
same country. 
On 16 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Bs trip was cancelled by the travel provider due to the travel 
restrictions imposed by the destination country and due to the change in the FCDO advice. 
Their travel provider refunded 70% of the cost of their trip. So, Mr and Mrs B submitted a 
claim on their travel insurance policy for the remaining 30% of the cost of cancellation which 
hadnt been refunded. Lloyds responded and said Mr and Mrs B had no cover under their 
policy for their circumstances. It declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and upheld it. She said, overall, the way the travel policy documents were 
presented meant that the combined effect of the policy wasnt clear to Mr and Mrs B. She 
didnt think it was fair for Lloyds to decline Mr and Mrs Bs claim and it should treat the claim 
as covered under the policy and reassess it.
Lloyds responded. It didnt agree with the investigators findings asked for the complaint to 
be looked at by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The key issue for me to decide is whether Lloyds fairly declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim on 
the basis that they werent covered for a change in the FCDO advice.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain
things  including excluded risks.
Regulatory guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair
Treatment of Customers) from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says businesses
should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the customer throughout the
lifecycle of the service being provided. 
The policy terms and conditions and the IPID
Section 1 of the policy document, on page 17, sets out what cover is available if a trip is 
cancelled:
Section 1  Cancellation And Disruption
What is Covered
1.1 If You are required to cancel or curtail a Trip as a result of any of the Specified
Occurrences below We will pay any irrecoverable or unused travel and 
accommodation expenses for which You have paid in advance or for which You 
have contracted to pay, up to the sum insured shown on Your Schedule of 
Insurance.
.
Specified Occurrences:
a) Your death or sustaining Bodily Injury or becoming Ill.
b) the death, Bodily Injury or Illness of Your Relative or business colleague or of any 
person with whom You had arranged to travel, reside or conduct business or the 
immediate Relative or business colleague of such person.
c) You or any person with whom You had arranged to travel, reside or conduct 
business being:
(i) quarantined or called for witness or jury service.
(ii) made redundant, provided that such redundancy qualifies for payment under Your
Country of Residences Redundancy Payments Act.
(iii) called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, the defense or civil
administration, the police force, or the fire, rescue, public utility or medical services.
(iv) required to be present at Your home or place of business in the Country of 
Residence following a burglary or major damage caused by storm, flood or fire.
d) the cancellation or delayed departure for 24 hours or more of an aircraft, sea 
vessel or other publicly licensed form of passenger transport in which You had 
previously booked to travel, resulting from any of the following contingencies: strike, 
industrial action, avalanche, volcanic eruption, adverse weather conditions, or accident or mechanical breakdown provided always that such contingency had not 
occurred, commenced or been announced before the booking was made in respect 
of the flight, voyage or journey thus affected.
e) major damage caused by storm, flood or fire rendering uninhabitable the 
accommodation in which You had previously booked to reside during the Trip, 
excluding any waterborne vessel or craft.
Mr and Mrs Bs trip was cancelled due to FCDO advising against all but essential travel to 
their intended destination. Based on the above, this isnt a listed insured event so looking at 
this alone, Mr and Mrs Bs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy. 
On page 15 of the policy document, theres a list of General Exclusions that apply to all 
sections of the policy. This says:
What is not covered
A. We will not pay any claim directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by:
.
15. You travelling to an area that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (or its 
equivalent in other EU countries) have advised against all, or all but, essential travel.
In looking at the IPID, its important to note that the IPID doesnt refer to this general 
exclusion whatsoever. This means that if Mr and Mrs B had travelled abroad, they would 
have been acting against the advice of the FCDO and therefore would have been left with no 
cover at all under their policy. The policy would therefore have been of no use to them.
So, the effect of the general exclusion would be that Mr and Mrs B werent covered for the 
cancelled trip by following the FCDO advice. But if they had travelled and the trip hadnt 
been cancelled, and therefore, not followed the FCDO advice, they still would have been left 
with no cover. 
Taking the relevant law, guidance and industry regulations into consideration, as well as
whats fair and reasonable, I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims due to the FCDO
advice was easily understandable from the policy documents. The cancellation section of the
policy doesnt include changes in FCDO advice as an exclusion. And this exclusion wasnt 
clearly highlighted to them in the IPID either as it hasnt been stated anywhere on this. 
Im therefore not satisfied the exclusion thats applied on their policy relating to travelling 
against FCDO advice was prominent or transparent. Mr and Mrs B would have been 
required to read the policy terms and conditions all the way through to understand the full 
effect of it. I dont think its unreasonable to expect such an exclusion to have been brought 
to their attention in a more prominent and transparent way.
The way Mr and Mrs Bs policy was designed and presented to them meant that the true
effect of the policy wasnt made clear to them. It created the effect of them having no cover
whatsoever for when the FCDO changed its advice. This created a significant imbalance
between the rights of Lloyds and Mr and Mrs B. And this meant that this shifted the rights
and obligations under the contract significantly in Lloyds favour.
I think the way the cancellation section of the cover and the FCDO exclusion under the 
general exclusions section of the policy are presented separately  and the lack of this being 
presented in the IPID - means the combined effect isnt clear.
Overall therefore Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B wouldve agreed to a policy that left themwithout any cover in these circumstances if theyd understood the true effect. So, I think the
way the information about the cover available under this policy is presented is not fair and I
dont think Lloyds was acting in the best interests of consumers like Mr and Mrs B when
presenting the information in this way. I dont think this is fair or reasonable in all the
circumstances of this complaint.
Conclusion
Taking account of all the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has declined Mr 
and Mrs Bs claim fairly and reasonably. The overall effect of the policy left them with no 
cover on their policy when the FCDO advice changed. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should now consider the claim as covered under the policy and re-assess Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Lloyds 
Insurance Company SA.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman