DRN-3425553
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the information available when he made a windscreen claim 
under a car insurance policy he bought with U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line 
(UKI).
What happened
In November 2021 Mr M contacted UKI to make a windscreen damage claim. UKIs 
authorised supplier couldnt provide an appointment until nine days later. UKI told Mr M he 
could make alternative arrangements to have the windscreen repaired sooner, but the policy 
had limits as to the costs UKI would cover if he did this. 
Mr M made the decision to arrange for the windscreen to be repaired. He was unhappy 
about the risk of leaving his car with a damaged windscreen for nine days  and he said he 
needed to use his car. 
Mr M raised a complaint with UKI. 
UKI contacted Mr M to say the date its suppler could replace the windscreen was brought 
forward to four days. But Mr M said hed already made alternative arrangements. He said 
UKI hadnt been clear enough about the policy terms and limits when he bought the policy 
and its website was unclear about making a windscreen repair. He wanted UKI to provide a 
refund of the full costs he paid to have the windscreen replaced minus the excess of £75 
under the policy. 
UKI upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. It said the timescale given to Mr M of nine days was 
outside the period its supplier aims to resolve windscreen claims, being seven days. UKI 
said this was brought forward to four days, but only when Mr M raised a complaint, which 
UKI apologised for. 
After listening to calls Mr M made to UKI, it said it was satisfied they were handled well 
overall  but there were one or two points where the information UKI gave Mr M was 
contradictory and confusing. So for the poor service Mr M received, UKI paid him £100 
compensation. 
UKI said the policy clearly set out the terms under which UKI would deal with windscreen 
claims  and so it said it correctly applied a limit of up to £125 for the claim (after the excess 
has been deducted) as Mr M didnt use UKIs supplier. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had been clear about the policy 
limits under a windscreen claim. And he thought it reasonable that UKI offered to arrange for 
Mr Ms car to be put into storage until its supplier could carry out the replacement works.
Mr M didnt agree. In summary he remains of the view that UKI wasnt clear enough about 
the policy limits.  
So Mr M wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says UKI only provided summary information on its website and when he bought the 
policy online. This information told him an excess of £75 would apply for a windscreen 
damage (replacement) claim.
I can see that the Certificate Of Motor Insurance and Motor Insurance Schedule provided by 
UKI highlights its process for windscreen damage claims. It sets out the limits and excess 
that applies when Mr M uses its approved supplier. It goes on to say:
If you do not deal with (name of approved supplier) our maximum payment will be 
£125 for replacement and £40 for a repair after deducting the excess. 
When Mr M bought the policy he agreed to accept the terms and conditions. Im satisfied 
that UKI sent Mr M his policy booklet along with his Motor Insurance Schedule and 
Certificate. Under the Schedule, UKI wrote:
This schedule forms part of the policy. Please read it in conjunction with the Motor 
Certificate and Policy booklet, and keep it in a safe place.
So I dont think UKI was unclear when it sold the policy to Mr M about how it would deal with 
a windscreen damage claim. 
UKI incorrectly told Mr M he wouldnt need to pay the £75 excess which it accepts. But it 
correctly told him that the limit if he used a non-approved supplier for the costs would be 
£125. UKI offered to put Mr Ms car in storage until its approved supplier could replace the 
windscreen. 
So I think Mr M was made aware when he bought the policy  and when he made a claim  
that if he didnt use UKIs supplier the costs he could claim back would be limited to £125. 
For the error in the information provided about the excess  and for the timescale first given 
to carry out the replacement, UKI paid Mr M £100 compensation. I think this was a fair 
resolution to his complaint, taking into account UKIs offer to arrange storage of Mr Ms car in 
the meantime.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed. But I think UKI has done enough to put things right. 
And this means Im not asking it to do anymore.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman