DRN-2863016
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited increased his credit limit without making the
relevant checks that they should have completed.
What happened
Vanquis offered to increase Mr Hs credit limit from £1,500 to £2,500 in November 2019.
They asked Mr H his income and expenditure prior to increasing the credit limit. Mr H told
them he was employed, living with his parents and his living costs were £400 a month.
Vanquis approved the increase to his credit limit in December 2019.
Mr H complained to Vanquis in September 2020. He said that they were irresponsible to
increase his credit limit as he was unemployed at the time of the credit limit increase which
meant he was unable to afford the payments to the card.
Vanquis did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said that relevant checks were completed to
ensure that a responsible lending decision was being made. Vanquis added that Mr H had
no CCJs or previous defaults. They also said that his external debt was £3,830 at the time
they offered to increase his credit limit and that Mr H had been up to date on all of his
payments for the previous seven months. Finally, Vanquis said that he was able to reject the
credit increase offer, particularly if he was in possession of information unknown to them at
the time of the increase. Vanquis said that they had carried out appropriate checks which
were proportionate to the increase in his credit limit.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
He highlighted the existing external debt that Mr H had at the time of the credit limit increase
based on information from Mr H which totalled to £3,300 and the monthly repayments were
£230 a month. Our investigator said this was consistent with the checks that Vanquis had
completed, with the information also given to them by Mr H and that Vanquis undertook
affordability checks that were proportionate to the credit limit increase. Mr H asked for an
Ombudsman to review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before offering and agreeing to increase Mr Hs credit limit, Vanquis needed to make
proportionate checks to determine whether the credit increase was affordable and
sustainable for him. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind
of things I expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of
credit, the borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments,
as well the consumer's personal circumstances.
So Ive thought about what checks Vanquis have said theyve done. They considered what
external debt Mr H already had. While they didnt look at each debt individually, they looked
at the total of the outstanding debt he had elsewhere. But they didnt ask how much Mr H
was spending on servicing this debt each month. They looked at his credit history and had
noted he hadnt missed a payment in seven months prior to the credit limit increase being
offered. Vanquis willve seen that Mr H was often making payments higher than his minimum
payment, so they may have been persuaded that Mr H could afford an increase in his credit
limit. They also asked Mr H to complete an income and expenditure form. They used all of
this information to decide that they were able to increase Mr Hs credit limit, but Im not
persuaded that they did everything they couldve done here and Ill explain why.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said about being unemployed at the time Vanquis offered
the credit limit increase. I asked him why he told Vanquis he was employed when he was
unemployed. Mr H said that he thinks he told Vanquis this as he was afraid that Vanquis
would suspend or close his account.
Although Vanquis asked Mr H to complete his income and expenditure, Ive considered 
what the rules and guidance for lenders, set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook
(CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook says under CONC. 5.2.A.16 (3)
- it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by the
customer without independent evidence.
As Vanquis didnt check how much Mr H was paying on a monthly basis for his external debt
and this wasnt showing on the expenditure he submitted to Vanquis, I think it wouldve been
reasonable for them to verify this. I say this as the offer for the credit limit increase would
increase his credit limit by over 50% which is a fairly substantial increase. So Ive considered
what would have likely happened if Vanquis would have verified his income and expenditure
to see how much he was spending servicing his external debt. This would help them assess
if the increase to his credit limit would be affordable and sustainable.
Vanquis werent aware that Mr H was unemployed as he didnt inform them of this as he said
he was employed. So I dont think its reasonable for Vanquis to have known this at the time
of the credit limit increase. I looked at Mr Hs bank statements he provided and his last
income from his employment was paid into his bank account on 21 November 2019. So, as
Vanquis offered the credit limit increase on 25 November 2019 and Mr H submitted his
income and expenditure details to them on 30 November 2019 then Im satisfied that Mr Hs
statements wouldve shown Vanquis a weekly income from his employer and Vanquis still
wouldnt have been aware that Mr H was unemployed even if they did ask for his bank
statements.
Looking at Mr Hs personal circumstances at the time of the credit limit increase, he lived at
home with his parents and reported his living costs as £400. The external debt he was
paying each month (based on what he told our investigator) was £230. So, as he told
Vanquis he was earning £1,100 and his bank account statements wouldve broadly
confirmed this was his income over the last couple of months. Mr Hs bank statements show
a high level of discretionary outgoings, which arent fixed. So if Vanquis had asked further
questions or sought further information from Mr H, without him telling them he was
unemployed, which he didnt at any point of the credit limit increase, Im satisfied they would
have still reached the same outcome and increased Mr Hs credit limit for the reasons Ive
already given. So while Im persuaded the checks Vanquis made were not proportionate, Im
not persuaded that the decision to lend to Mr H was unfair and so it follows that Ill not be
asking Vanquis to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr H said he had nothing to add but his disappointment. Vanquis did not respond 
to my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party added any further information for me to consider my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr H will be disappointed 
with the decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman