DRN-2060643
The complaint
Mr J is complaining that esure Insurance Limited have undervalued his car.
What happened
Mr Js car was stolen and not recovered. His insurer, esure, said the car was worth £7,700. 
Mr J wasnt happy with this amount  he said they had undervalued the car. esure revisited 
their valuation and in their final response letter said they would increase it to £7,797. They 
also explained how theyd arrived at that valuation, saying theyd used the motor trade 
guides and taken an average of the figures in the motor trade guides. They said the trade 
guides showed:
CAP £7,064
Parkers £7,500
Cazana £7,875
Glass £8,750
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. He said he cant replace his car for the amount 
esure offered him. He said hed been looking at selling prices for the same car online, and 
sent us a number of screenshots of adverts on selling platforms. He said it was a rare, high 
spec version of the car and that he could only find the same car from the same year starting 
from around £10,000. As a result he said he didnt think esure had treated him fairly. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Js complaint. His view was that esure had followed the 
guidance and used accepted industry guides when valuing Mr Js car. He also commented 
that the high mileage on Mr Js car was likely to have significantly impacted the valuation.
Mr J wasnt happy with the investigators view. He said hed found two further adverts for the 
same car with more comparable mileage. These advertised prices of £9,000 and £10,999. 
He asked for a second opinion so his case came to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 June 2020. In that provisional decision I explained that I 
was inclined to uphold Mr Js complaint. I said: 
My role is not to value Mr Js car but to look at whether esure have acted fairly and 
reasonably when carrying out their valuation. Mr Js policy booklet defines market value 
as the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open 
market immediately before your accident or loss.
Esure have taken values from each of the four guides and offered the average price. As 
they said in their final response letter, this is in line with our services published 
approach and wed often say this was fair and reasonable. And it is often the case that 
market values are lower than advertised prices  thats because the valuation guides 
reflect the likely selling price and dont include the margin for negotiation and 
commission thats often built into the advertised price for a car. 
But in this case the values from the guides were quite widely spread with the difference 
between the highest and lowest being over 20% of the value offered. And when I looked 
at the examples of cars sent by Mr J it seemed to me that the higher end of the trade 
valuations might more accurately reflect the market value.
Because of the wide range of values Ive looked at Cazana again. Cazana update their 
valuation model from time to time and theyve increased their valuation (as at the date of 
the theft) of Mr Js car to £8,692. This would bring the figures to:
CAP £7,064
Parkers £7,500
Cazana £8,692
Glass £8,750
Ive also looked at the advertised prices for the same type of car sold within the last 12 
months. Although all of these have a lower mileage than Mr Js car, most of them are 
also a year older. Most of these were advertised at around £10,000 - £10,500, which 
seems to support the updated Cazana valuation and the Glass valuation.
Taking into account all of the information Im inclined to say the CAP and Parkers 
valuations are too low and esure should value Mr Js car in the range of the updated 
Cazana and Glass values. Provisionally, Im suggesting £8,721, as the average of these 
two. This would be an increase of £924 over esures current valuation. 
I appreciate that at the time of making their valuation, esure didnt have access to the 
latest Cazana value. But it is the range of values and the discrepancy from advertised 
prices that I think should have alerted them to the need to use a value towards the 
higher end of the range.
Im also minded to ask esure to pay Mr J some compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience this has caused him. Hes told us of the difficulties he was having in 
finding an affordable replacement car and the inconvenience not having a vehicle was 
causing him and his family. At this stage Id suggest a payment of £150 for this. 
Mr J hasnt commented on my provisional decision, and esure have accepted it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As esure have accepted my provisional decision, and Mr J hasnt provided any further 
comments to change my mind, Ive nothing further to add. So, my final decision is 
unchanged from my provisional decision and Im upholding Mr Js complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, esure need to increase their valuation of Mr Js car to £8,721 and 
pay him the £924 difference. Im asking them to pay interest on this amount and to pay an 
additional £150 compensation to Mr J for the upset and inconvenience their low valuation 
caused him.My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Im directing esure Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr J:
the £924 difference arising from the uplift in valuation;
simple interest on that amount at a rate of 8% per year, calculated from the date they 
originally settled Mr Js claim to the date of payment; and
£150 as compensation for the upset and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman