DRN-3757087
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not action his international transfer 
instruction correctly.
What happened
Mr L says that on 29 December 2021, he contacted Barclays to transfer £25,000 from his 
Barclays account to an overseas account and he paid a fee to do this. He said he provided 
Barclays with the transfer address requirements of the recipient bank, the name of the 
clearing bank, the banks Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications 
(SWIFT) code, account number and the International Bank Account Number (IBAN).
Mr L travelled overseas and visited the bank on 6 January 2022, who should have received 
the funds and he provided them with the receipt of the transfer, however, they had not 
received the funds and the money could not be traced. He says the overseas bank informed 
him that the address on the receipt was incorrect and incomplete. He says they sent 
Barclays an interbank message for them to trace the transfer, but Barclays responded to say 
the transfer could not be located. Mr L made a complaint to Barclays. 
Barclays did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said it is the responsibility of the receiving 
bank to ensure all their standard settlement instructions for payment routing remained up to 
date in the SWIFT register and they are advised of any updates. They explained how the 
transfer was routed. Barclays said that even if they were able to add a correspondent bank 
to the payment instruction, this did not guarantee that the payment will be routed via that 
bank and that is why it is so important for the receiving bank to keep the payment routing up 
to date. Barclays said that the funds were returned to them by one of the banks involved in 
the transfer on 7 January with the reason internal policy, Barclays said they were unable to 
provide him with any further information on this. 
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He said he wanted compensation for his 
expenses, stress and inconvenience caused and he would like a full refund of his financial 
losses during his overseas trip and compensation for the psychological trauma he suffered.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said Barclays confirmed that they sent 
the payment correctly and using the information they had available to them. He said the 
money needed to be sent to a correspondent bank for the recipient bank, but for this to 
happen, they needed to transfer the funds through a third party UK bank, which Barclays did, 
who returned the funds due to their internal policy. He said the third party bank returning the 
funds was not in Barclays control. Our investigator said that Barclays also provided 
additional evidence in the form of screenshots from the SWIFT register, which confirms that 
the corresponding bank for transfers from the UK was the bank they had routed it to. 
Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that Barclays claimed that they followed the right procedure in line with 
their internal system, but if the information input was wrong then the outcome of the process 
would be wrong. He said if the information he gave them was not in line with what they 
claimed they had on their system then that should have flagged up at the point of transaction 
and he said that Barclays failed to use the SWIFT address that he gave them on the day of 
the transfer. He said the recipient bank undertook an interbank communication directly 
referencing the transfer with the same reference that was reflected on the customer 
confirmation receipt, but Barclays said they couldnt locate the item to which the recipient 
bank referred to.
Mr L said that SWIFT addresses, swift codes and IBAN numbers are a standard format of 
Bank Identifier codes (BIC) and it is a unique identification code for a particular bank. He 
says his friend sent him $225 to the same details from a different UK bank when Mr L was 
overseas and it reached his account, therefore if a different bank can process the payment 
successfully, this proves that Barclays got it wrong. He said the recipient bank had signed 
and stamped correspondence to him confirming they have been using the SWIFT process 
for over ten years without strong challenges or default. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I must make it clear that I will only be able to look into the actions of Barclays here as this is 
who Mr Ls complaint is solely about. So I wont be able to make any finding against any 
other bank who may have been involved here, including any correspondent banks, recipient 
banks or any other financial institutions who may have been involved.
Ive looked at the customer confirmation receipt that Barclays provided to Mr L. Im satisfied 
that the details of the beneficiary bank including the address, the SWIFT/BIC account 
number/IBAN etc all match the details of the recipient bank and the recipient bank details Mr 
L says he gave Barclays. He has also placed his initials next to each section and he has 
signed the form to confirm that he has checked the payment details and he confirms they are 
correct and he understands that a failure to provide the correct details could lead to the 
payment being delayed, cancelled or incur additional costs. 
So if Mr L was in any doubt that Barclays had not used any correct details or were missing 
any specific details, he shouldnt have initialled and signed to confirm the details were 
correct. As there is no confirmation of payee system for international payments, Barclays 
would not be aware if any information that Mr L gave them was incorrect. Ive looked at the 
original SWIFT message and this also confirms the correct details of the recipient.
So Im not persuaded that a different SWIFT code/recipient bank address etc has been used 
to what should have been used. But the funds did not reach the intended account. So Ive 
considered why the funds did not reach their intended destination. 
Not every bank has a direct business relationship with all other banks, and so in some 
cases, there may need to be one or more intermediary banks, known as correspondent 
banks, used during the process to join up the sending and receiving bank. This is what has 
happened here as Barclays and the recipient bank did not have a direct business 
relationship in order to send the money from Barclays direct to them without any other bank 
involved. 
So Ive looked at the route that Barclays have sent the payment. Barclays have provided me 
screenshots of the SWIFT register, which is an industry standard of how financial institutions instruct international transfers to be routed. The SWIFT register shows that for the SWIFT 
code Mr L gave Barclays that when the payment is made in Pound Sterling (GBP) that a 
different bank is used to the one Mr L was told by the recipient bank that it would need to go 
through. 
It is only if the payment was sent in United States Dollars (USD), that the SWIFT register 
shows that the payment could be routed through the correspondent bank that the recipient 
bank had told Mr L that the payment needed to go through. Ive noted the photograph that 
Mr L provided us dated 11 December 2021, which is a printout of the recipients details, does 
not show a currency in how this money should be sent to them, so if they thought the 
payment was going to be sent in USD then this would match up with the SWIFT register. As 
the recipient bank would be responsible for the information on the SWIFT register to be 
accurate, Im not persuaded that Barclays have made an error by routing the payment 
through the route that the SWIFT register shows for the currency the money was sent in. 
While the recipient bank had sent Barclays a message with details of how the funds should 
be routed after the payment had not been received by them, and Barclays couldnt initially 
locate the reference and told them to use a different reference when they responded to 
them, this was after the funds had been sent back to Barclays by a bank who was involved 
in the transfer. So I would not expect Barclays to make another international transfer (which 
could incur fees) without Mr Ls instruction. Barclays would have no control over the payment 
when it left them, so if a correspondent bank had returned the payment due to their internal 
policy, it wouldnt be proportionate to hold Barclays responsible for this when they had 
processed Mr Ls signed instructions and they used the SWIFT register to route the payment 
as it is industry standard to do so. 
Ive considered what Mr L has said about his friend sending him $225 to the same details 
from a different UK bank which proves that Barclays got it wrong. But here, I can only focus 
on this specific transfer, as this is the crux of his complaint. But I would point out that the 
photograph he sent us on 16 December shows the currency as USD, so that is why it could 
have been routed a different way to his GBP payment he is complaining about here. So as 
Im satisfied that Barclays acted in line with Mr Ls signed instructions and routed the money 
in the way I would expect them to for a GBP payment, it follows I dont require Barclays to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman