DRN-3695357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Society of Lloyds has made an unfair claim decision when 
considering their claim made on their buildings policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F hold a commercial buildings insurance policy for their property which is 
underwritten by Society of Lloyds. Theyve brought this complaint with the assistance of their 
representative.
In late 2019, Mr and Mrs F say their property was damaged by strong winds. They initially 
decided to cover the repairs directly but these turned out to be more expensive than first 
anticipated and a claim was raised in February 2020.
Society of Lloyds declined the claim. It said it hadnt been able to investigate the damage 
and determine that it was something that the policy was covered  in short, its position had 
been prejudiced. It directed Mr and Mrs F to the policy and the requirement within that meant 
claims needed to be raised as soon as damage was noticed.
Mr and Mrs Fs said their tenant was away from December 2019 and was then unwell in 
January 2020. Their representative has also said both Mr and Mrs F are elderly and 
majority illiterate so placing the same expectations on them to understand what they 
needed to do in line with the policy terms when a claim is raised is unfair. As a result, he 
didnt think it was fair that Society of Lloyds declined the claim simple because it had been 
brought late. 
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in part.
He didnt think it was fair to expect Society of Lloyds to meet the claim for the external 
damage caused. He didnt think it had been given a chance to assess the damage ahead of 
any repairs and although he understood the reasons for the claim being raised late, this had 
prejudiced the position of the business. It couldnt be confirmed if the damage caused was 
consistent with storm damage and as a result, he didnt think it had made an unfair claim 
decision to decline the claim.
But our investigator felt Society of Lloyds should have gone further when looking into the 
claim. Although there had been no mention of the internal damage within the claim and the 
invoices submitted for payment all related to the external damage and costs involved, he felt 
the internal damage was implied as part of the claim. He felt the photos provided 
demonstrated there to be internal damage and Society of Lloyds should have gone on to 
consider this..
He said it was fair to expect  Society of Lloyds to cover this damage as he felt it was clear 
damage had occurred and this would likely be covered under the policy. So he asked that it 
cover any costs that could be demonstrated by Mr and Mrs F.
Society of Lloyds disagreed with this part of the assessment. It said no claim for internal 
damage had been considered as it had not been raised. It isnt in the business of 
investigating claims not raised and it didnt think it was fair to expect it to infer what claims 
are being raised by its customers. It said it would need the opportunity to investigate a claim 
for internal damage if this has been raised but it and the response to this, isnt something 
that forms part of the claim or complaint brought to this service.
Our investigator spoke with Mr and Mrs Fs representative who confirmed that no claim for 
internal damage had been raised. Because of the decline of the external damage, they 
hadnt submitted this and it was clear they didnt think this was implied as part of their 
original claim.
The society of Lloyds maintained that this part of the claim shouldnt be considered. Despite 
the confirmation from Mr and Mrs F that no claim for internal damage had been raised, our 
investigator still felt this should have been considered.
As a result the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is disappointing for Mr and Mrs F but Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
This service has a set and published approach to storm damage set out by our investigator 
in his view. Ive applied this when thinking about whether the actions taken by The Society of 
Lloyds where fair when it assessed the claim made by Mr and Mrs F.
For much the same reasons as our investigator, I dont think it has done anything wrong 
when thinking about the external damage.  Although it can be said that there was a storm at 
or around the time the damage is said to have occurred - some caution is needed on when, 
exactly this happened due to the delay in the claim being reported - it isnt possible to 
determine if the damage caused is consistent with and most likely caused by a storm. So in 
the absence of this, I dont think it is fair to say that it was, or that it would be fair to expect 
Society of Lloyds to cover this under the claim.
In reference to the internal damage, based on Mr and Mrs F confirming that no internal 
damage was claimed for - or implied as part of the claim in their opinion either. And that 
Society of Lloyds has said it has not considered this or had the chance to, I dont think it is 
fair say this is part of the claim complained about.
While a business should consider the wider parts of a claim, Mr and Mrs F had been quite 
specific in what it was they wanted in response to their claim. Theyd submitted the invoices 
that they felt it was fair to ask their insurer to pay and what damage this covered. This all 
relates to external damage and works and doesnt give or imply an issue with the internal 
damage. Although pictures show damage was evident in the property, it doesnt show the 
cause of this and I dont think it is fair that this service gives a direction on this when the 
business hasnt had the chance to consider the complaint. 
As Mr and Mrs F accept this claim hadnt been made before, I think theyll understand why I 
think it is fair they raise this directly if they wish to do so. Society of Lloyds will need to 
decide whether it agrees to the claim or not. If unhappy with the decision Mr and Mrs F can 
bring a complaint to this service.Overall, based on the claim made and considered by the Society of Lloyds, I dont think an 
unfair claim decision has been made. So I see no reason to ask Society of Lloyds to 
anything further with this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman