DRN-2150665
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt send annual statements for his 
loan, and it didnt send a copy of his loan agreement when he asked for it. He says RBS isnt 
allowed to charge interest for a large part of the loan period as a result. He wants a refund.
What happened
In summer 2019, Mr T complained to RBS that the interest rate on a loan he took out in 2017 
loan was too high. And he said he hadnt been sent a copy of his loan agreement when he 
asked for it, in July 2018. He also told us he hadnt received annual statements for this loan.
Mr T said the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) provides that when a statement isnt sent for a 
loan like this, then the bank isnt allowed to charge interest on the loan. He said he hadnt 
received statements from February 2018 or 2019. Mr T thought RBS should refund all the 
interest it had charged between March 2018 and July 2019. 
Mr T paid off the loan in October 2019, and it was closed. 
RBS said that Mr Ts interest rate was as set out on his loan before he agreed to take it out. 
RBS said it couldnt find an earlier request from Mr T for a copy of his loan agreement. But it 
accepted that he had asked for this, as he said, and it sent this in July 2019. It apologised 
that it had taken so long to get a copy of his loan agreement to him. 
RBS said that none of this meant that Mr T was entitled to a refund of interest on his loan. It 
said it couldnt now evidence that it had sent Mr T the statements, because his loan was 
closed, but it thought they had been sent. It said it held the right address for him. 
RBS said Mr T had complained about the interest rate on this loan in early 2017, so he knew 
what that rate was. It pointed out that our service had looked at this point in 2017, when we 
had not upheld his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought it was most likely 
that RBS had sent Mr Ts annual statements, as it is required to do so by law. He said it 
wasnt unreasonable for RBS no longer to have copies of the statements, as the loan was 
closed. And our investigator didnt think there was any adverse impact on Mr T from not 
having the statements. He thought Mr T had enough information to make an informed 
decision about continuing with the monthly repayments under the terms of the loan 
agreement or settling early. 
Our investigator didnt think RBS had to pay back any interest. He noted Mr T had referred to 
the CCA. He explained that we do consider the law, but our decisions are based on what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Because Mr T hadnt suffered any financial loss, 
he didnt think it would be reasonable to ask RBS to refund interest. He knew RBS had taken 
some time to get a copy of Mr Ts credit agreement to him, but this was information Mr T was 
given before he took out the loan. So our investigator said that an apology seemed a 
reasonable way of resolving Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T didnt agree with that. He said our service is required to take the law into account. He 
said it made no sense to depart from the law to swing the balance in favour of the financial 
institution, as he thought we had done. He said a challenge to this in court was likely to 
succeed, and departure from the law was almost always used in favour of the complainant. 
Mr T thought the sanctions set out in the CCA were intended to be punitive. He wanted us to 
apply those, and make RBS pay him back interest hed paid when he thought it wasnt due. 
Mr T thought that by accepting that RBS had sent statements, although he said he didnt 
receive them, wed put greater weight on the banks word than on his. He thought that the 
bank shouldve kept proof of posting, at least. Mr T expected the bank to keep statements for 
five years. Mr T thought that if he said hed posted a document, we would ask him to prove 
it, but we werent asking the bank to do that. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He still thought that it was most likely that RBS had 
sent the statements and complied with the CCA.
Mr T still disagreed. He said that if we thought the CCA only meant no interest was payable 
while the statements were outstanding, and it became due again once these were supplied, 
then we were wrong. He argued that provisions in the FCA handbook meant RBS had to 
keep statements. 
Our investigator still didnt think Mr T had experienced any loss, so even if he thought RBS 
had breached the CCA, he didnt think that caused financial loss. And the rules Mr T referred 
to werent relevant to his complaint, they dealt with a totally different area of financial 
services. 
Mr T then pointed to a different part of the FCA handbook, which he said meant RBS had to 
keep all records. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Although I have only summarised briefly the detailed representations that Mr T has made to 
our service, I have considered those in full. 
Mr T has previously complained to our service about the interest rate on his loan. And hes 
told us that this is separate to the issues considered here. So I wont consider whether Mr T 
was given the right interest rate on his loan as part of this complaint. 
But, like our investigator, I do think its relevant to this case that Mr T has complained about 
this in the past. It means that he was, after this earlier complaint, clearly aware of the interest 
he was paying on this loan. Mr T says that he didnt receive an annual statement in 2018 or 2019. He thinks that RBS 
should have proof that these were sent.
I wouldnt expect RBS to provide proof of posting for a routine document like a loan 
statement. Its not usual for a bank to obtain proof of posting for routine correspondence. So 
I dont think I can draw any conclusions if RBS doesnt have this.
Mr T also says that were taking RBS word for it over his, because our investigator accepted 
that the statements were sent, although Mr T told us they werent received. I dont think 
thats right.
Our service often hears from people who say they havent received important documents or 
letters in the post. Some of those people have overlooked post which has been delivered, 
perhaps because they didnt realise it was important at the time. Others have never received 
the letter. For various reasons post does sometimes go astray. 
But in both cases, that doesnt mean that a letter wasnt sent. And, like our investigator, I 
think that in this case it is simply more likely that statements were sent to Mr T. Any high-
level duty on a business to maintain records doesnt change my view on that. 
RBS has shown us it holds the right address for Mr T. So if Mr T didnt get statements for 
2018 and 2019, I dont think that is RBS fault.
I havent seen anything in this case that makes me think its most likely that RBS has failed 
to comply with the provisions of the CCA that Mr T has identified. Because I dont think RBS 
has breached this law, I dont think its relevant to this case to discuss how our service 
balances out the relevant law with whats fair and reasonable, or what I might have done if I 
thought RBS had breached the CCA.
I know that Mr T will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
Mr T may wish to take the matter further through other means. But my decision brings to an 
end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with RBS informally, can do for him. Im sorry 
were not able to help Mr T any further on this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman