DRN-2384793
The complaint
 Mr W complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here 
was around six years old and had completed about 58,400 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would expect an engine management light to be 
illuminated and for there to be faults with the air injection system which could impact on the 
engine performance of a luxury car.  
Im persuaded there was a fault with this car reported very early on as Ive seen an email 
from the garage who attended to Mr Ws car at that point and the email confirms the 
presence of a fault code relating to an air injection system malfunction.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a fault that was present 
at the point of supply and given that this fault was reported so soon after Mr W took receipt 
of the car I think MotoNovo were right to take responsibility and fix it for him.
If that repair isnt successful the law would suggest Mr W is allowed to reject the car.
When Mr W complained that the repair hadnt worked MotoNovo arranged an independent 
inspection. Whilst the inspector wasnt able to replicate the issues Mr W complained of I 
dont think that suggests the issues werent present. 
I say that because Mr W subsequently provided a diagnostic from a garage specialising in 
his make of performance vehicle. That report confirms the presence of exactly the same air 
injection system malfunction that was present when the car failed in November 2019 and 
suggests the fault has deteriorated. 
Our investigator discussed the issue with the mechanic who produced the report and the 
mechanic confirmed he believed the earlier repair had been unsuccessful.
I think the second independent inspection confirms the report from the diagnostic Mr W 
provided as it notes the presence of the fault codes referred to by that mechanic. 
So, as its clear the fault that was reported in November 2019 was not repaired correctly 
MotoNovo should now allow Mr W to reject the car.
Putting things right
 MotoNovo should collect the car and end the finance agreement with Mr W. Theyll need to 
refund his deposit and add interest to that refund as Mr W has been deprived of his deposit 
whilst funding a vehicle that was of unsatisfactory quality.
I have considered the investigators suggestion that two monthly instalments are refunded, 
and I think hes right as that would fairly compensate Mr W for the time hes had the car in 
the garage when he wasnt kept mobile.
Mr W has been inconvenienced by these matters. I can see hes been without the car during 
the festive period and that he had a real need for a vehicle to transport his father who wasnt 
in good health. Hes had to take the car to the garage to be fixed on a few occasions and to 
obtain specialist reports to support the claims that MotoNovo rejected. I think the complaint 
could have been resolved earlier without the need to refer it to this service. 
I also think that its clear Mr Ws enjoyment of the car would have been impacted and I think 
MotoNovo should pay him £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
been caused and his loss of enjoyment in the vehicle.
Mr W says he incurred charges for the diagnostics he commissioned to prove the fault with 
the car hadnt been resolved. They are costs he would not have had to incur had MotoNovo 
accepted his position. So MotoNovo should refund those costs and they should add interest 
to the refund as Mr W has been deprived of that money.
Mr W has explained that he had to put new tyres on the car and service the vehicle. But Ive 
not been persuaded to tell MotoNovo to refund these costs as I think they were wear and 
tear items and not related to the fault Mr W had with the car.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr W;
refund Mr Ws deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund two monthly instalments in respect of the lack of use Mr W experienced;
pay Mr W £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced and the loss of enjoyment hes suffered;
refund the cost of the diagnostics that were commissioned, on provision of the 
receipts from Mr W. 
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman