DRN-3943195
The complaint and what happened
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse payments he didnt make or otherwise 
authorise. This decision only concerns Mr Ms personal losses. The business losses were 
dealt with separately. As both losses were incurred as a result of the same scam neither 
party should be surprised by any repetition in the decisions. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In February 2022, Mr M received a call from someone purporting to be Monzo, they 
knew details of the accounts held, name and address etc. He was asked if some 
transactions had been made by him, which he confirmed he didnt recognise. He was 
asked to confirm the long card number of his personal card, and the last eight digits 
of his business card. He was then told to delete the app, redownload it and log in 
again. He was also told that hed receive a notification about Apple Pay, which hed 
need to accept. The text confirming the addition of Apple Pay appeared in his usual 
text line from Monzo. 
Mr M was told an email and new card would be sent. But that didnt happen. Rather 
£1,290 was spent from his personal account, over seven separate transactions, in a 
supermarket (in addition to other transactions on the business account). Mr M 
reported the matter, but Monzo declined to refund the transactions as it said he didnt 
keep his security credentials safe and didnt do enough to verify the caller. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and asked for a full refund and interest  she 
didnt think Mr M had failed with gross negligence or intent to keep his security 
credentials safe. 
Monzo disagreed, but the investigator wasnt persuaded to alter her findings. Monzo 
asked for a weeks extension to respond further, but so far hasnt done, not even 
when notified the matter was being referred to an ombudsman. 
Im satisfied Monzo has had ample opportunity to reply but hasnt done so; its now 
appropriate to move this complaint to our final stage. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise or consent to, unless he failed with gross negligence or 
intent to comply with the terms of the account and keep personalised security details 
safe. 
Monzo accepts Mr M didnt carry out, authorise or consent to the transactions in 
question. Under the PSRs the transactions are therefore considered unauthorised. 
I dont find Mr M failed with intent to keep his security details safe. He followed the 
instructions to prevent unauthorised transactions from his account. I also dont find 
Mr M failed with gross negligence. He believed he was speaking with his bank, and I 
understand why. The caller knew details about Mr Ms accounts, including the 
business account, and address information. And when told to expect an Apple Pay 
notification, that appeared in the text line of other genuine texts from Monzo. 
I accept Mr M provided card information when perhaps he ought not to. And that he 
evidently went through some of the steps that enabled Apple Pay to be set up on 
another device. But I dont think that means he seriously disregarded an obvious risk, 
and therefore failed with gross negligence. 
Mr M believed the steps he took were to stop unauthorised transactions. He 
questioned the caller when he couldnt see the attempted transactions on his banking 
app. Monzo has argued that all transactions would show whether fraudulent or not. 
But Mr M might not be aware of that, and I find the explanation given by the caller to 
be entirely plausible  that the transactions had been spotted as potentially 
fraudulent and stopped before reaching the account. Im not persuaded that Mr M 
knew that providing his long card number to who he thought was his bank, could 
enable someone else to make transactions from his account. Furthermore, Im not 
persuaded that by completing the Apple Pay steps Mr M realised he was allowing it 
to be set up on another device  there is nothing within the screen shots provided, or 
the text confirmation, that tell him that. So whilst the screen information may have 
told the customer to contact Monzo if it wasnt them setting up Apple Pay, as he was 
told to expect this as part of the process to prevent transactions, there wouldnt have 
been a reason for him to contact the bank about that. In any event, Mr M thought he 
was already speaking with and following the instructions of his bank. 
Overall, I can see how Mr M was tricked into believing the steps he took were to 
prevent fraud on the account. I think a lot of people would have been tricked into 
doing the same or something similar. I dont find his actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person would do, that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude Mr 
M isnt liable for the transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to reimburse Mr M £1,290 and add 8% simple interest per year on that sum from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman