DRN-2796770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society (trading at the time as Derbyshire) mis-sold 
them two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1986, which covered both of them.
In 2002, they took out a new PPI policy with some further secured lending, which covered 
Mr G only.
Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI with regular premiums, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
The 1986 sale
Ive decided this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G applied for the PPI separately to applying for the mortgage itself. They chose 
what kind of cover they wanted, and signed specifically for the policy. The PPIs cost was set 
out separately to the cost of the mortgage itself  it wasnt part and parcel of the lending. It 
was not a condition of their mortgage either. And Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Nationwides sales process from the time, nor any evidence which makes me think that Mr or 
Mrs G were misled into buying this policy. So I think that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs G 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time. 
Its not clear whether Nationwide recommended this policy to Mr and Mrs G, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Nationwide if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr and 
Mrs G as possible, Ive assumed it did. That means Nationwide had to check the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs G were eligible for the cover and werent affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations  back in 1986, they didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions that wouldve been excluded. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of their 
work benefits and savings and covered them for far longer. It also meant they could 
effectively protect their savings and use them for other things. And ultimately, if Mr and 
Mrs G had fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI 
couldve really been useful for them in protecting their home.
The cost and benefit of the policy were set out clearly. So I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve 
understood how much they would need to pay for it and what it could pay out.
Lastly, its possible that Nationwide didnt point out all the main things the 1986 policy 
wouldnt cover. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs G dont appear to have been affected 
by any of those things  so I dont think it wouldve changed their minds if theyd been given 
better information about that.
So I do not think the 1986 policy was mis-sold, and so Nationwide do not need to refund any 
of the premiums that Mr and Mrs G paid for it.
The 2002 sale
In the 2002 sale, Mr and Mrs G again applied for the PPI separately to the lending. Indeed, it 
looks like they asked for PPI after theyd already been offered the loan  so they wouldve 
known they didnt have to take out PPI to get approved for the lending. Mr and Mrs G signed 
and submitted an application specifically for PPI, and again its cost was set out as being 
separate to the cost of the loan itself. So I think it wouldve been clear that the PPI was 
optional, and I think Mr and Mrs G chose to buy it at the time.
Nationwide recommended this policy for Mr G, so they had to check it was right for him.
I think the unemployment cover was right for him, as Mr G was eligible for it, was not 
affected by any of its key exclusions or limitations, and it wouldve paid out on top of his 
existing benefits and savings and offered him more comprehensive cover.
However, I dont think the accident and sickness cover was right for Mr G. By 2002, Mr G 
had been diagnosed with a medical condition which would not have been covered. And 
I think this wouldve mattered to him, given its significance in his life and the potentially 
severe complications that meant he mightve needed to claim for it.
After our adjudicator raised this with Nationwide, they offered to refund what Mr and Mrs G 
had paid for the accident and sickness elements of the 2002 policy. And I think that this is a 
fair offer, since its only the accident and sickness elements that were mis-sold. Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should put Mr and Mrs G in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out the accident and sickness elements of the 2002 PPI policy. That means 
Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs G back the amount they paid each month for the accident and sickness 
part of the 2002 PPI policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr G made a successful accident or sickness claim under the 2002 PPI policy, 
Nationwide can take off what Mr and Mrs G got for the claim from the amount it owes 
them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
Mr and Mrs G can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in part, and direct 
Nationwide Building Society to put things right in the way I set out above  as I understand it 
has already offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman