DRN-2086674
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have turned down their 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 17 July 2015, Mr and Mrs B took out an annual travel insurance policy with UKI, which 
renewed each year. They arranged to go on a cruise in July 2018, but after booking the trip 
Mrs B was sadly diagnosed with skin cancer. The lesion was removed, but Mrs B then 
developed an infection which prevented her from travelling.  They therefore cancelled the trip 
and submitted a claim to UKI.
UKI turned down the claim. It was concerned that Mr and Mrs B couldnt provide a booking 
invoice to show the trip had been booked for them. It also said that Mrs Bs claim was linked 
to an existing condition of cellulitis, which wasnt declared to UKI before the trip was booked. 
UKI said if it had been told that Mrs B had cellulitis it wouldve still offered her cover, but for 
an additional premium. Unhappy with UKIs decision to turn down the claim, Mr and Mrs B 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought UKI ought to pay the 
claim in full, as it hadnt provided evidence to show that it wouldve charged a higher 
premium if it had known of Mrs Bs condition of cellulitis.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 July 2020. My provisional findings were:
The policy says
You must tell us immediately after booking our trip if any of the following extra 
cover is required (an additional premium may apply):
Medical endorsement: if any insured person has any pre-existing 
medical conditions. You may then have to pay an additional premium to 
cover those conditions for the coming year. For some conditions, cover 
may not be available but we will tell you this when you call, and we will 
confirm this to you in writing.
And
Medical Declaration
Please read this section carefully. Failure to provide correct information or 
inform us of any changes could adversely affect your policy  see General 
Condition 1 on page 38. When you become an insured person or when you 
book your trip (whichever is later):
You must tell us about each pre-existing medical condition for any insured 
person. This is any medical condition for which you:
 have received advice, treatment or a prescription for medication (whether 
taking it or not) from a doctor during the last 12 months;
 have a heart or cancer related condition;
 are under investigation or awaiting diagnosis;
 are on a waiting list for treatment as an in-patient or were aware of the 
need for treatment as an in-patient;
 have received a terminal prognosis
Between the date you booked your trip and the start date of your trip:
You must tell us about any new serious injury or serious illness 
affecting any insured person.
 If you still wish to go on your trip your policy will continue to operate 
normally.

Where we agree to cover a medical condition we will apply those terms for the 
following 12 months (or until the expiry of any existing upgrade or endorsement, 
whichever is sooner) so long as there is a valid [account] under which you are 
entitled to receive the benefit of this policy and you have paid any premium due. 
At the end of this period we will send you a letter; you must then call in again so 
that we can ensure your policy continues to meet your needs.
Mrs Bs GP and her specialist have provided information about her medical conditions.
On 10 November 2017 Mrs B was seen by her GP with long term cellulitis of her lower 
leg, and received treatment for this.
Then in January 2018, Mrs B was seen for a dressing of her lower leg. At this time, she 
noticed an ulcer on her shin. A biopsy was carried out which confirmed it was a 
squamous cell carcinoma, and excision of the lesion took place in April 2018.
Mrs B then had a wound infection from the excision area, and this prevented her 
from travelling.
When Mrs Bs GP completed a medical certificate for UKI, the GP explained that Mrs Bs 
leg ulcer was the condition that caused the claim. When asked if Mrs Bs condition, or 
anything directly related to it, had been suffered before - the GP confirmed it had been, 
and gave the date of 10 November 2017.
It therefore seems that Mrs Bs previous diagnosis of cellulitis on 10 November 2017 
was directly related to the leg ulcer (which was later confirmed as skin cancer) and the 
infection that led to the claim.
The next point for me to consider is whether Mrs B had her condition of cellulitis before 
the trip was booked, and so needed to declare this.
The difficulty here is that we dont know when the trip was booked. The trip was being 
arranged through Mr and Mrs Bs priest for a number of people, and he arranged it with 
a travel agency outside the UK.
Mr and Mrs B say they paid their priest a deposit on 25 November 2017, and he says he 
paid the deposit (with everyone elses) to the travel agency on 8 December 2017.Theres 
no written confirmation of when the booking was actually made.
However, given that Mrs B had been diagnosed with cellulitis before either date of 
25 November 2017 and 8 December 2017, I think she should have told UKI about 
this.UKI says that if Mrs B had told it of her cellulitis, it wouldve still offered her cover, but for 
an additional premium.
In cases such as this, we usually say it would be appropriate for an insurer to pay a 
proportionate settlement based on the premium actually paid. Although UKI hadnt shown 
us evidence that it wouldve charged an additional premium before the investigator 
reached her view, Im satisfied it has since done so.
However, before I require UKI to pay a proportionate settlement of the claim, Id like to 
see further evidence of Mr and Mrs Bs financial loss. Ill explain why.
The policy says
Section A Cancelling Your Trip (before you are due to start your trip) What is 
covered
We will cover you for your:
 unused deposits;
 accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities); and
 unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges that you have 
paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your trip for one of 
the following reasons:
 One of the following people dies, is seriously injured or is seriously ill:
 any insured person;

Mr and Mrs B say they paid £500 deposit to their priest on 25 November 2017. And that 
after Mrs Bs lesion had been removed in April 2018, they thought they could still go on the 
trip.
So they paid the balance of £2,690 (presumably to their priest) on 22 May 2018. 
However, after Mrs B developed the infection she was told not to travel. Mr and Mrs B 
say they had to pay a penalty of £730. Theyre claiming for this and the loss of £500 
deposit  so £1,230 in total.
For the claim to be payable, the onus is on Mr and Mrs B to prove they have a valid claim. 
In other words, they need to show that they booked a trip and incurred a financial loss as 
a result of cancelling that trip.
Ive seen a payment details form dated 8 December 2017 which confirms that £7,000 
was paid to an account. However, this doesnt show that the cruise had been booked in 
Mr and Mrs Bs names, and so we dont know that this £7,000 included Mr and Mrs Bs 
£500 deposit.
Theres an email from the travel agency dated 31 May 2018. It isnt written in English but it 
seems to say that Mr and Mrs B (it names their surname) need to pay the penalty of 
£1,230. Handwritten under this is a deduction of £500, presumably written by the priest in 
relation to the deposit theyd paid. This email also refers to the outstanding balance for the 
rest of the travelling party, and refers to the £7,000 deposit paid.
Theres also a document from the travel agency which names Mr B and which refers to a 
penalty for two people of £1,230, which it says has been settled.
Mr and Mrs B have provided a statement from their priest which says he received their £500 
deposit on 25 November 2017 and sent it to the travel agency on 8 December 2017. He then says Mr and Mrs B paid him £730 which he sent to the travel agency on 4 June 2018, 
for the penalty incurred for cancellation.
This is confusing, as its not clear what happened to the £2,690 remaining balance that Mr 
and Mrs B say that they paid on 22 May 2018. If this had been paid, Id expect the £730 
penalty to be deducted by the travel agency from that amount and the rest refunded to Mr 
and Mrs B. Id appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs explanation for this in response to this 
provisional decision.
Given that the trip was booked for a number of people, I appreciate there may not be a 
booking invoice that names Mr and Mrs B. However, based on the information Ive seen 
from the travel agency, I think its apparent that Mr and Mrs B were included as two of the 
travelling party. Im also satisfied that the references to the penalty is sufficient evidence of 
their cancellation and that this was a cost that needed to be paid.
However, Id like to see Mr and Mrs Bs bank statements showing the date they took 
out/transferred the £500 deposit, as well as the £2,690 remaining balance/and or the £730 
penalty.
If Mr and Mrs B can provide the above, I think this would be sufficient evidence that 
payments were made from them to the travel agency (even though these payments were 
made via their priest), and that they therefore incurred a financial loss. Once Im satisfied 
on this point, I intend to require UKI to pay the cancellation claim on a proportionate 
basis."
UKI responded to my provisional decision to say that it had not declined the claim when it 
had issued its final response letter, as it had not received all the documents needed to make 
a decision at that point. 
Mr and Mrs B responded and provided a bank statement to support their claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI says that it had not declined the claim when it issued its final response letter, as it hadnt 
received all the documents needed to make a decision. 
Whilst I appreciate that UKIs final response letter didnt say it had declined the claim, when 
UKI submitted its file to this service, it explained it had decided to decline the claim based on 
the information received from the GP. It also said the booking invoice hadnt been received. 
If UKI didnt want this service to take into account its claims decision, it should have made 
this clear in its file submissions. 
My provisional findings took UKIs claims decision into account and I agreed with it that 
Mrs B should have declared her condition of cellulitis before booking the trip. As she didnt 
do so, I thought the claim should be settled on a proportionate basis. 
However, I also explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think Mr and Mrs B had 
provided sufficient evidence of their loss. Mr and Mrs B said their total losses were £1,230. 
This was made up of £500 lost deposit, and a £730 penalty they said they had paid. 
I asked Mr and Mrs B to provide their bank statements showing the date they took 
out/transferred the £500 deposit, as well as the £730 penalty. I said if they could do so, Id be satisfied that these payments were made to the travel agency (even though they were 
made via their priest), and that theyd incurred a financial loss. 
In response, Mr and Mrs B have only been able to provide a bank statement which shows 
that they paid out £500 by cheque on 7 December 2017.
Im satisfied from this that Mr and Mrs B have shown they incurred a £500 loss of deposit, 
but they havent shown that they incurred a financial loss in respect of the £730 penalty. 
I therefore require UKI to settle the claim for £500 on a proportionate basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to 
settle the claim for £500 on a proportionate basis. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman