DRN-3477580
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr F was given 3 loans by Bamboo. He borrowed £3000 in August 2017 and agreed to 
repay this over 36 months. He refinanced that loan in January 2019 and took additional 
borrowing. In total he was due to repay £3048.69 over 36 months. Mr F then refinanced 
again for a second time in October 2019 and again added some additional borrowing on top. 
In total he borrowed £3978.63 and agreed to repay this back over 60 monthly instalments. 
When Mr F made his complaint to Bamboo, he had a balance to repay.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr F before it agreed to the first loan. It asked Mr 
F about his income and his contribution to accommodation. It says it verified his income 
using an online tool. It then used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess his living 
expenses. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out his credit commitments. 
Those checks suggested Mr F had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan 
repayments. 
Mr F was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 3 years. So, I think it is right that Bamboo wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Fs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think Bamboos checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what the Bamboo gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a 
fair lending decision. 
Bamboos credit check showed that Mr F was making use of other credit at the time he 
applied for loan 1. He had 4 loans and a large overdraft with his bank. It looks like 3 of his 4 
loans were short term or payday loans and these were taken within 2 months of him applying 
to Bamboo for this loan. So, I think it would have been right for Bamboo to
be concerned at this early stage that Mr F might be facing some problems managing his 
money.
In total Mr Fs outstanding loan and overdraft debts amounted to around £2465, and due to 
the short-term nature of some of the loans, his typical monthly repayments were £535. Due 
to the amount of short term finance, if Mr F had told Bamboo that he was using the loan for 
something other than debt consolidation, I would have concluded on seeing this, that it ought 
to have sought further information from Mr F to see if he could sustainably afford the loan 
repayments. But Mr F told Bamboo that he wanted to use its loan to refinance those other 
debts. Since the amount that Mr F asked to borrow was a little more than his total 
outstanding credit, I think it would have been reasonable for Bamboo to accept his 
explanation of how he would use the loan at this stage. And by using the loan in
that way Mr F would be able to reduce his credit expenditure from the current £535 per
month to around £146 per month. The loan term was clearly a lot longer, being 3 years, for 
him to be indebted by. But Mr F had a chance at this stage to clear all of his outstanding 
debts and reduce his monthly repayment.
So, at this stage I think it was reasonable for Bamboo to accept Mr Fs reason for applying 
for loan 1. And by doing so Mr F could significantly reduce his monthly outgoings and pay of 
his outstanding other debt. So, I currently dont think Bamboo did anything wrong when it 
agreed to give him loan 1.
Mr F then came back and asked Bamboo for a second loan in January 2019. He had made 
16 monthly repayments on the first loan and was looking to refinance and also have an 
additional £890.07 on top. Bamboo says he told it he was going to use the capital coming to 
him for a car. I think Mr F coming back, not even halfway through his first loan repayments, 
asking for more finance should have caused Bamboo concern.
As before, Bamboo asked Mr F for information about his income and his contribution to 
accommodation. It says it couldnt verify Mr Fs income using an online tool on this occasion 
as Mr F had recently changed employment. So, it asked him for recent payslips. It then 
verified Mr Fs income this way. It used ONS data again to assess Mr Fs living expenses 
and carried out a credit check. The checks again suggested that Mr F had enough 
disposable income each month to afford the second loan repayments. And, although I think it 
ought to have had some concerns as I have already mentioned, I think on balance, its 
checks were also proportionate. But again, I think it would need to react to what these 
checks showed, and I dont think it did for loan 2. I think it should have not agreed to lend 
and I will explain why.    
The credit check that Bamboo carried out showed that Mr F had taken out several lines of 
new credit since it had last carried out a check on his finances for the application for loan 1. 
The credit search for loan 1 had 9 accounts in total listed, whereas the check for loan 2 only 
16 months later listed 37 accounts. Mr F had 9 active accounts on this check and so it is 
clear on seeing this, that he had taken out and repaid many loans in the period of time 
between loan 1 and Mr F coming back and asking for his second loan. In short, the debt 
consolidation from loan 1 didnt work.
Mr Fs outstanding debt had significantly increased around £2500 to slightly over £12,000 
and he now had 6 existing loans, a credit card and the same overdraft as before. Seeing all 
of the settled loans on Mr Fs credit report that he took out after loan 1 and also his existing 
credit commitments, demonstrate to me, on balance, that Mr F had become reliant on credit 
and was taking out loans to repay existing debt. He was now paying over half of his monthly 
income to service his debt and this loan would do nothing to alleviate that or improve the 
situation he found himself in. By agreeing to loan 2, all that Bamboo were doing were 
extending the terms of his first loan and agreeing to lend a bit more, that would in turn add to 
Mr Fs growing debt burden. For all the reasons I have just mentioned, I dont think the loan 
repayments for loan 2 were sustainably affordable for Mr F and Bamboo shouldnt have 
agreed to it.  
Mr F then came back 9 months later and asked for a third loan for £3978.63. This would be 
repaid over 5 years this time with most of the loan being used to repay loan 2 and a further 
£1281.46 going to Mr F. Bamboo carried out similar checks than he did for the first two loans, although at this stage it was able to verify Mr Fs income again. I dont think the 
checks it carried out here were proportionate, due to the findings I have already made and 
also because he had been indebted to Bamboo now for 26 months. I think by now, it ought 
to have been looking to carrying out a complete review of Mr Fs finances. But I think with 
the information it did have in front of it, it shouldnt have given Mr F the loan anyway. 
The credit search results that Bamboo gathered for loan 3, showed that in only 9 months Mr 
F had increased his overall indebtedness to almost £30,000. He had taken out several new 
lines of credit including a significant loan for £12,500. Bamboo calculated that Mr Fs overall 
monthly credit commitment, with the repayment for loan 3 would be around £940. Well over 
half his monthly income and this time Mr F was asking for the loan to be set over 5 years. It 
is clear to me at this stage that Mr Fs debts were increasing at a considerable rate and he 
continued to borrow more to repay what he already owed. This loan repayment was also not 
sustainably affordable for Mr F and Bamboo shouldnt have agreed to this loan either.
In addition, as I have already mentioned, Mr F had been indebted to Bamboo for 26 months, 
when he came back and asked for another loan. I think Bamboo ought to have had serious 
concerns about the pattern of lending that had developed here and Mr Fs reliance on it for 
credit. I say this because the amount he had asked to borrow over this time had not 
decreased at all. Mr F was paying large amounts of interest to service a debt to Bamboo 
over an extended period of time and this had become harmful to him. 
In conclusion, I think Bamboo made proportionate checks when it agreed to loan 1 and on 
balance didnt do anything wrong when it agreed to lend at that stage. But by the time Mr F 
asked for loan 2, his circumstances had changed and Bamboo ought to have seen this 
through the checks it made. I am currently minded to think it didnt make a fair lending 
decision when it agreed to loan 2 and his finances deteriorated further when it agreed to loan 
3, so I dont think it should have given him that loan either. I also am minded to conclude that 
Mr F had become reliant on credit from Bamboo by the time he had asked for loan 3 and this 
was harmful to him. So, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and Bamboo need to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Bamboo responded and said it had no further comments. Mr Fs 
representatives confirmed it received the provisional decision but did not provide any 
additional information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bamboo and Mr F have not made any new points for me to respond to. So, as neither party 
has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will change the outcome 
of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional 
decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Fs complaint.  
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr F to repay the principal amount that he borrowed for 
loans 2 and 3, because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has been indebted 
with interest and charges on loans 2 and 3 that shouldnt have been provided to him.
Bamboo should:Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 2-3 and treat all the payments Mr F 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Fs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Discuss with Mr F an affordable repayment plan if there is still an outstanding 
balance to repay.
Remove all negative information about Loan 2 on Mr Fs credit file. Remove all 
entries on Mr Fs credit report relating to loan 3. Any information about this loan was 
likely to be adverse for Mr F.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things 
right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman