DRN-4146405
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money he lost when 
someone he knew encouraged him to invest in a scheme he was running. 
What happened
Mr L says that someone who had been a classmate of his for one semester (who Ill refer to 
as A) approached him and asked him to get involved in a savings/investment scheme. A 
came from the same country as Mr L which gave him confidence in the scheme. Mr L and 
others would pay into the scheme and then each of the savers would receive a payment of 
twice what they paid in. 
Mr L made the following payments by bank transfer because A said this meant there was a 
record of what each individual had paid:
Date Amount Recipient
19/04/21 £540 1
29/04/21 £540 2
14/05/21 £540 3
14/05/21 £1,080 4
15/05/21 £1,080 4
Total £3,780
 
When it came to his turn to receive funds Mr L didnt receive anything and was then unable 
to contact A.  
Mr L contacted Barclays on 11 November 2021 and explained what had happened. Barclays 
said Mr L has a civil dispute with A, as he knew A and had discussed the investment 
opportunity with him. Barclays contacted the banks that received Mr Ls funds but were 
unable to recover anything. Mr L was unhappy with this response and brought a complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He felt 
Mr L was the victim of a scam, but he didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
scheme he was paying into was genuine. The investigator also said that Barclays didnt 
need to intervene when the payments were made, as the warnings it provided went far 
enough.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to 
consider. He said he thought that because he paid by bank transfer his funds were safe and 
he cant understand why Barclays arent questioning A and making him return Mr Ls funds. 
Mr L also referred to the difficult financial position he is now in. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 September 2023. I said I was provisionally minded not 
to uphold Mr Ls complaint as I thought he had a civil dispute with A. In the What Ive 
provisionally decided  and why section of my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
in other words on what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im sorry Mr L has lost money in these circumstances. I understand the huge impact the loss 
has had on him. The issue here though is not whether Mr L received what he expected, but 
whether Barclays is responsible for the loss.
A bank has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers give it. 
As a starting point, a customer is therefore assumed liable for a payment they have 
instructed to be made. 
Under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), 
the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP 
scam (except in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code does not apply to private civil 
disputes. It only applies where the customer has been the victim of an APP (authorised push 
payment) scam, which is defined in the CRM Code as:
 a transfer of fundswhere 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
Its difficult to establish whether Mr L was the victim of a scam and I do not have the power 
to compel A and the other recipients to testify to their versions of events or instruct a police 
investigation into the matter. Instead, Im restricted to considering what I think is more likely 
than not based on the evidence available to me. 
To decide the payments Mr L made were part of an APP scam Id need to be satisfied that A 
intended to defraud Mr L from the outset. I dont have any evidence to persuade me this is 
most likely what happened here. The fact that Mr L paid someone he knew doesnt in itself 
mean that he hasnt been scammed. But theres just no evidence in this case except what 
Mr L has told us and based on this the scheme sounds similar to the chit system. But Mr Ls 
description of how he was meant to receive a return doesnt fit with it so its not possible to 
say its more likely than not that this was what was happening. 
Ive also seen confidential information from the banks that received Mr Ls funds, including 
from As bank. I cant share any detail about this information but cant say it leads me to 
believe its more likely than not Mr L was the victim of an APP scam. 
Even if I did think Mr L was the victim of an APP scam, I still wouldnt be asking Barclays to 
provide him with a refund. After considering Mr Ls previous account activity I dont consider 
any of the payments were so unusual or out of character that Barclays should have done 
anything more. Mr L had made payments for similar and larger amounts in the months 
before the scam so I dont think any of the payments Mr L made would have stood out or led 
Barclays to take any additional steps. 
Im also satisfied Mr L didnt take any steps to satisfy himself that what A told him was right 
or had any reason to believe he would receive twice the amount he paid in back. There was 
no written agreement to set out what the parties agreed to and no understanding of why Mr L 
would receive a return, particularly as funds paid in werent invested. I think Mr L placed a lot of trust in someone he didnt know very well. So even if I considered that Mr L was the victim 
of an APP scam that the CRM Code applied to, I wouldnt be upholding this complaint.
Although Barclays said Mr L wasnt the victim of a scam it tried to recover his funds from the 
receiving accounts, but no funds remained. I think Barclays acted reasonably in trying to 
recover the funds. 
Mr L told this service he thought Barclays would provide protection because he transferred 
funds from his account with Barclays. Paying by faster payment is like paying by cash in that 
protections offered when you pay by card arent available.  
I realise that Mr L will be disappointed with my decision but overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to refund the money he lost.
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr L said he had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing my provisional decision neither party has raised any further points for me to 
consider. For the same reasons as I set out in my provisional decision (and reproduced 
above) I consider that Mr L has a civil dispute with A. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman