DRN-3270895
The complaint
Mr L complains that Zopa Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. 
In my decision I said;
Mr L was given a single loan by Zopa in April 2019. The loan was funded through a 
peer to peer lending arrangement, however it was Zopa that had the regulatory 
responsibility to ensure that the loan was lent responsibly. Mr L borrowed £3,000 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Mr L repaid the loan earlier than 
planned, in March 2021.
Zopa gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal housing costs. And it checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed 
credit in the past. But Zopa doesnt appear to have asked Mr L about, or derived an 
estimate of, the remainder of his normal living costs.
Mr L was entering into a significant commitment with Zopa. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I would expect that Zopa would 
want to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ls 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I dont think that the checks it 
did were enough  although Zopa was aware of what Mr L earned, and how much he 
paid on his mortgage and other loans, it didnt account for his other normal 
expenditure. I think it would have been proportionate for Zopa to gather more 
information about Mr Ls finances before agreeing the loan.
But although I dont think the checks Zopa did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, that in itself doesnt mean that Mr Ls complaint should succeed. Id also 
need to be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have 
shown Zopa that Mr L couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
In this case, I dont think proportionate checks would have resulted in Zopa asking 
Mr L for copies of his bank statements to verify his expenditure. I think it would have 
been reasonable for Zopa to rely on information provided by Mr L about his living 
costs  or even to have relied on industry statistical data to estimate that expenditure.
 
The credit check showed that Mr L had a number of other active accounts. But, 
importantly, those accounts all appeared to have been managed well in the past with 
no evidence of missed payments, or more serious issues such as defaults, county 
court judgements, or bankruptcy. And the checks that Zopa performed showed that it 
had been almost a year since Mr L had last taken any new borrowing.
Mr L told Zopa that he wanted to use the loan to consolidate some of his other 
borrowing. I think it was reasonable for Zopa to rely on Mr Ls explanation. Zopa 
could see from its checks that Mr L had two other credit accounts whose balances 
added up to around the same value as the loan he was taking. And although by 
consolidating those debts Mr L would be repaying his borrowing for much longer, the 
amount he needed to pay each month would be greatly reduced.
The results of Zopas checks, even allowing for the addition of further expenditure as 
Ive described above, suggested that Mr L had sufficient disposable income to afford 
the repayments on his new borrowing. And that disposable income would have 
increased still further when Mr L consolidated his other borrowing as hed told Zopa 
he would. So I dont think the results of proportionate checks should have led Zopa to 
decline Mr Ls application.
Mr L has provided us with copies of his bank statements. And those statements show 
that his finances were in a significantly worse state than Zopas checks showed. He 
has told us that he was suffering from a gambling addiction at the time, and I can see 
that he regularly spent many times his normal income on what appear to be 
transactions of that nature. But as Ive said earlier I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for Zopa to request copies of these bank statements when it made its 
lending decision. And Mr L didnt give Zopa any indication of the problems he was 
facing when he applied for the loan. I dont think it was unreasonable for Zopa to rely 
on what Mr L said.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr L. But I dont currently think 
that what I consider to be proportionate checks should have led Zopa to decline his 
loan application. So I dont currently think his complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Neither Mr L nor Zopa have provided me with any new evidence, or 
additional comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
think that what I would consider to be proportionate checks should have led Zopa to decline 
Mr Ls loan application. So I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Zopa Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman