DRN-3921094
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS)
was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr B is being represented in this complaint by Miss A. However, for ease of reference, my 
decision refers to any actions or comments by either Mr B or Miss A as being from Mr B.
What happened
On 23 October 2017, Mr B was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £15,031.29, and the agreement was for 
£22,721.35 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £270 and a final optional 
payment of £12,500. The car was supplied with a three-year warranty and the agreement 
limited Mr B to 5,000 miles a year.
Mr B returned the car to the supplying dealership in February 2018, due to a mark on the 
windscreen; and again in July 2018 due to a noise from the brakes, the boot not shutting 
properly, and the car not charging his phone. The dealership also replaced the battery on the 
car in 2019, as it had a low voltage and was causing starting difficulties and warning lights to 
illuminate.
In July 2021 the car broke down, and Mr B said the same warning lights were illuminated as 
those in 2019. The car broke down again in October 2021, with the recovery company 
providing reports that showed numerous fault codes.
Mr B wasnt happy with the dealership, and he said hed been promised an extended 
warranty which wouldve covered any repairs that were needed. So, he complained to VWFS 
about this. But they didnt think the issues Mr B was having with the car were present or 
developing when the car was originally supplied. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
Mr B wasnt happy with VWFSs response, and he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said he was satisfied there was something currently wrong with the car. But 
Mr B had had the car for around four years before these faults occurred. And the reports 
from the breakdown company didnt provide any indication of what caused the faults, or how 
long there had been a problem with the car.
While the investigator said there were previous issues with the car, Mr B had accepted 
repairs from the dealership, and hed seen nothing to show these repairs were unsuccessful. 
And, from the evidence supplied, he thought it was likely the current faults were caused by 
an incompatible fuel being used, rather than something that was present or developing when 
the car was supplied. So, he didnt think he needed to ask VWFS to do anything.
The investigator also said that the issue with the additional warranty was a dispute between 
Mr B and the supplying dealership. As such, this wasnt something we were able to consider, 
and Mr B would need to raise the issue directly with the dealership.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said that hed been promised an extended 
warranty, that hadnt been provided. And the vehicle could have been fixed because it broke 
down before the promised extended warranty ran out. Because of this, Mr B has asked for 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it implies that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless VWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after the 
first six months, it implies that its for Mr B to show that it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr B took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
From what Ive seen, its clear Mr B had some problems with the car after it was supplied to 
him. However, he accepted repairs from the dealership relating to the windscreen, brakes, 
boot closure, phone charging, and battery. And these faults with the car were all resolved by 
April 2019.
However, in 2021, Mr B had further issues with the car. Ive seen the breakdown reports for 
October 2021, when the car had done between 17,052 and 17,124 miles. These show that 
the car has various fault codes relating to the oil and fuel. They also show that the 
breakdown company noted the car had insufficient engine oil, and that they recovered the 
car to the dealership. Where it remains.
While the mileage the car has done seems relatively low, its within the range of what Mr B 
expected to do as per the agreement  up to 5,000 miles a year.The car was also inspected by the dealership in November 2022. The diagnostic report they 
produced shows that the fault codes were still present, whereas the health check noted there 
was a coolant leak, an issue with a sensor in the oil sump, and that the fuel was 
contaminated. Ive seen that the investigator recommended an independent engineers 
report be done on the cat, but neither VWFS nor Mr B were willing to pay for this.
As such, my decision is based on the evidence I have. Ive also noted that Mr B referred this 
matter to the Motor Ombudsman in 2021. Ive contacted the Motor Ombudsman and theyve 
confirmed that they didnt make any determination on Mr Bs complaint, and its not 
something theyre still looking into. As such, Im satisfied that our rules dont stop me from 
issuing my decision.
While there are fault codes with the car, Ive not seen anything to show me that they are 
historic. Nor have I seen anything that indicates the faults they relate to were present or 
developing at the point of sale. Whats more, due to the time elapsed since Mr B was 
supplied with the car, and from when the repairs were carried out in 2018/2019, I consider it 
highly unlikely that the current faults with the car date back to when it was supplied.
In addition to this, theres no evidence that the car has ever been serviced. And the codes 
and reports instead point to a lack of maintenance and/or the incorrect fuel being used in the 
car as the likely cause of the current faults. As such, Im satisfied that the car was of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B. And, as the faults that happened in 
2018/19 have been resolved, with no evidence or indication that theyve reoccurred, I dont 
think that Mr B is due any remedy under the CRA. So, I wont be asking VWFS to do 
anything more.
Turning to the matter of the warranty, Ive seen an email dated 23 August 2018, where the 
dealership asked Mr B if he wanted them to extend the warranty for an additional year, after 
the issues hed had with the windscreen and brakes. However, I havent seen anything to 
show me that Mr B accepted this offer. However, regardless of whether Mr B accepted or 
not, the offer to extend the warranty was made almost a year after the finance agreement 
with VWFS was taken out.
As such, Im satisfied that the matter of the extended warranty was separate to the finance 
agreement. And VWFS werent involved at all in this offer. Because of this, the extended 
warranty is not something Im able to look into or take into consideration. And, if Mr B 
remains unhappy with this, its something he needs to raise directly with the dealership.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman