DRN-1672507
 
The complaint
Ms J complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out during a meeting in 1990 in connection with her 
mortgage taken out in her former name.
What happened
Ms J complained to this Service. She said she was told she had to buy the PPI to get the 
mortgage; she thought PPI was part of the mortgage process; she also said her mother was 
her guarantor, so she didnt need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like Ms J was 
offered an optional policy and  although the information might have been clearer  she 
probably would have bought the PPI anyway.
Ms J disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
She repeated the following points:
She was not offered a choice about PPI;
She had a job, sick pay and a guarantor, so she didnt need PPI;
The cost and benefits were not explained to her;
The terms and conditions were not explained to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the available evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint. I know 
this will be a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Bradford & Bingley made Ms J aware the policy was optional. She 
specifically said she bought the policy because she was told she had to have PPI to get the 
mortgage. So she says she had no choice about it. 
Ive been shown the mortgage application form which Bradford & Bingley said was 
completed at or around the time of the sale. I noted the form clearly said she was only 
considering the building and contents insurance - so I think she most likely knew she could 
shop around for the insurance products - but I also noted she did tick to show she wanted 
the PPI cover. I can reasonably assume she could have chosen not to tick the PPI section 
on the form and could have shopped around for other similar insurance. She also signed the 
form, so I can safely assume she saw the form at the time of signing and so she ought to 
have been aware she had an option and she ought to have been aware of her final selection. 
On that basis, I think the PPI was presented to her as an optional product and it was added 
to her account with her consent. 
Ms J didnt tell me exactly what was said to her in 1990 to make her believe she had to have 
PPI to get the mortgage. So Ive looked very carefully at the mortgage application form she 
most likely saw at the time of the sale. I couldnt see anything on the form which could have 
given her the impression she had to have PPI to get the mortgage. So I dont uphold this part 
of her complaint.
Bradford & Bingley said the sale was non-advised. So it didnt have to make sure the policy 
was right for Ms J. But it did have to give her enough information which was clear, fair and 
not misleading, so that she could make her own decision about it.  So I then looked at her 
financial circumstances at the time to see if the PPI would have been a useful benefit for her. 
Ms J said she was in full time employment and would get good sick pay benefits from her 
employer if she was off sick. She told us she was in good health at the time of the purchase. 
I have thought carefully about this but having decided she wanted PPI and chose to have it, I 
think Ms J thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to her in addition to her employee 
benefits. I say this because the PPI could have lasted for longer than and in addition to her 
sick pay if she had made a successful claim.
Ms J also told us her mother was a guarantor for the mortgage, so she didnt need the PPI. I 
do understand her point  but having a guarantor doesnt automatically mean the PPI has no 
benefit. There are many reasons why a business requires a guarantor  in this case, it may 
have been because Ms J was the only wage earner and there was no other income for her 
to rely on. In those circumstances, its likely that Ms J had to have a guarantor purely 
because it enabled her to get the mortgage she needed and not because she wanted or 
expected the guarantee to be called in. So I think the PPI was useful to her because it meant 
she could claim on the policy if she needed to instead of calling in her mothers guarantee.  
I dont know how Bradford & Bingley told Miss J about the exclusions and limitations of the 
policy, but I think she was unlikely to be affected by the main exclusions as she was in good 
health and in full time employment. So I dont think she would have decided not to buy PPI 
even if shed been given a full list of the exclusions.
I also looked at whether Bradford & Bingley gave Ms J enough clear information about the 
cost and benefits. I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to Ms J in 
the meeting. But as Ive decided she chose to have PPI and that there was a benefit in her 
having PPI, I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and benefits 
would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Taking everything into account, I think Ms J was aware the PPI was optional, it was of 
benefit to her and that she had enough clear information to make a decision. So Im not 
going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman