DRN-3128866
The complaint
Mr M complains about the decision by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to turn down his travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Ill instead focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M wants UKI to cover the cost of him returning to the UK earlier than hed initially 
planned.
Under the emergency medical section of the policy, it explains that UKI will cover additional 
travel expenses needed to return the insured to their home area on the advice of a medical 
advisor. 
Under the curtailment section of the policy, it explains that UKI will cover additional travel 
costs to allow the insured to return home early if they have to unavoidably abandon the trip 
because they are seriously injured or are seriously ill.
Mr M cut short his trip as hed been diagnosed with a unilateral femoral hernia. Mr Ms 
treating consultant in the UK (Mr W) later diagnosed him with an inguinal hernia. Mr W said 
he understood that Mr M was seen by a surgeon abroad who recommended an urgent 
repair. It was Mr Ws opinion that if a patient has a painful hernia then this would count as an 
urgent case that should be repaired as soon as possible. Mr W thought it was reasonable for 
Mr M to cancel his holiday and return to the UK quickly as possible. 
Mr W later said he thought it was medically necessary for Mr M to return immediately to the 
UK to have the painful hernia repaired, in view of the risk of incarceration and/or 
strangulation.
Ive looked at the medical report that was completed when Mr M was seen abroad. This 
explained that hed experienced a strip of pain along the medial belt line, but hed taken 
antibiotics he had with him, and his symptoms had improved. Then the previous day, he 
started having lower back pain and was concerned about his kidneys. It was thought Mr M 
likely had a femoral hernia. It was noted that he would be returning home in five days time. 
The report said Mr M had been advised to make an appointment with a general surgeon as 
soon as he got home for evaluation. 
Its apparent that the treating doctor abroad didnt think Mr M needed to return to the UK 
immediately for medical treatment, as they recommended that he seek medical treatment on 
his return five days later. I see that UKIs medical assistance company were of the same 
opinion, and said the only time emergency treatment would be needed was if the hernia 
became incarcerated or necrotic.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr W has said a patient with a painful hernia should have this repaired 
as soon as possible, the evidence from the time says Mr M had lower back pain. The report 
doesnt suggest that Mr M was in a lot of pain that required emergency treatment, or that 
Mr M needed to immediately return to the UK for treatment.
I can appreciate Mr Ms reasons for wanting to return to the UK. He explains he was worried 
his hernia would develop into something more serious, and this is supported by Mr Ws 
explanation that there was a risk of incarceration and/or strangulation. However, Mr M hadnt 
received medical advice to return home early, and the evidence doesnt support that he 
needed to do so because he was seriously ill. Consequently, I think UKIs decision to turn 
down the claim was reasonable and in line with the policy terms. 
UKI accepts its handling of the claim couldve been better, and it caused unnecessary 
delays. I see that after UKI initially turned down the claim, Mr M asked it to reconsider its 
decision and provided it with Mr Ws opinion. It then took UKI several months to advise Mr M 
that it wasnt changing its claims decision. I think UKI caused unnecessary delays here. UKI 
paid Mr M £200 compensation for this, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that UKI has paid 
reasonable compensation for its errors.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman