DRN-4115420
The complaint
Ms M has complained that, after a Covid-19 payment deferral ended on her mortgage, Bank 
of Scotland Plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (and referred to here as BM) increased her 
monthly payments substantially and put her account into arrears. 
BM has now agreed to remove the arrears, amend Ms Ms credit file and pay compensation 
of £600. However, Ms Ms solicitor, who has brought the complaint to us on Ms Ms behalf, 
believes a payment of £3,200 is more appropriate. 
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. 
Secondly, the underlying issue in the complaint  that after the payment deferral ended, BM 
substantially increased the monthly repayments  has now been corrected by BM, and the 
bank has also agreed to amend Ms Ms credit file and pay compensation. So I dont need to 
analyse what happened in detail in order to determine whether or not BM is at fault  BM has 
already admitted this. The only issue I need to decide is what compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Ms M being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite short and will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
Briefly, Ms M took out an interest-only mortgage with BM over a ten-year term. The 
mortgage is now approximately eight years overdue for repayment. BM has granted several 
grace periods to allow Ms M to arrange repayment of the balance (about £315,000).
Ms M took a Covid-19 payment holiday, and at the end of this the monthly repayment was 
recalculated, because the grace period had only a few months left to run, so BM calculated 
the payments in order to ensure that the missed payments were repaid before the end of 
that period. This set up a domino effect of Mrs Ms account falling into arrears.
After a complaint was raised with our service, BM accepted that, given Ms Ms age and 
circumstances, it shouldnt have done this. BM agreed to remove the arrears by way of a 
remediation payment made to the account, amend Ms Ms credit file and pay compensation, 
which our investigator recommended should be £600.
Ms M didnt accept this, however, and her solicitor requested £3,200 compensation. He 
explained that BM threatened Ms M with foreclosure and selling the property which is her 
home. He also said that Ms Ms credit rating has suffered in a dire and damaging way and 
although BM has now agreed to put this right, Ms M has suffered reputational damage. The 
solicitor also said that Ms M has incurred legal fees of between £2,000 and £2,100.
BM wouldnt agree to pay any additional compensation so it falls to me to decide this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, because BM has accepted it made an error, the only issue I need to decide 
is the level of compensation that should be paid.
I am aware that, during the course of this complaint additional issues have been raised  
about how the remediation payment was applied to the account and the calculation of the 
monthly payments. In addition Ms Ms solicitor has requested a two-year term extension so 
Ms M can complete repairs to the property and sell the top flat which will go towards 
repaying the mortgage balance.
These are all new issues that havent been raised as part of the original complaint. Ms M will 
need to raise them first with BM and obtain the banks final response before we can consider 
those matters. I will not, therefore, be commenting on those matters.
Turning to this complaint, Im satisfied that BM has now put things right by removing the 
arrears on the account and amending Ms Ms credit file. I am glad the bank has 
acknowledged that, given Ms Ms financial history and past arrears, it ought to have been 
apparent that increasing her monthly repayments in order to cover the deferred payments 
before the end of the current grace period would be unaffordable. 
In relation to the credit file, whilst I acknowledge that this has been a stressful time for Ms M, 
Im not persuaded she suffered reputational damage as claimed by her solicitor. No 
evidence has been produced that Ms M applied for, and was refused, credit during the 
period when the mortgage arrears showed on it. Nor have I been provided with any evidence 
that the interest rates for new credit might have Ms M taken out during this period were 
affected by the arrears showing on her credit file. 
We provide an informal service and so we do not generally expect consumers to instruct 
solicitors to bring their complaints. Consumers can, if they wish, instruct a third party to help 
them bring a complaint, usually a family member  and indeed I note that Ms Ms son has 
also been in contact with us in relation to the complaint. There are no complex legal issues 
in this complaint, so Im not persuaded that the compensation should be increased to cover 
the solicitors costs.
For reasons of privacy I wont go into detail about Ms Ms personal circumstances. But Im 
satisfied that she was caused great distress and upset at a time when she was in poor 
health and vulnerable. Given this I think an award of £600 is appropriate and proportionate.
Putting things right
In settlement of this complaint, I think a compensation payment of £600 is fair and 
reasonable. 
Other matters
As I said above, I am not looking at any other issues that have been brought up during the 
course of this complaint. Those will need to be raised separately with BM.However, the mortgage balance is now overdue by about eight years, and, if repayment 
proposals cant be agreed, BM will be entitled to pursue recovery action through the courts, 
as a last resort. I would not want Ms M to underestimate the seriousness of this.
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them 
to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential for consumers to use 
our service to bring complaints with the intention of having any legal action put on hold, 
thereby obstructing businesses that were trying to take action through the courts to recover 
money legitimately owed by the consumers. 
I do not wish to alarm Ms M, but I would not want her to be under any misunderstanding that 
we would tell BM that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of any new complaint 
being raised about the mortgage. It is a matter for a court to decide whether it is appropriate 
to adjourn or suspend any legal action, not this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in addition to the redress already put in place, Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Birmingham Midshires must pay Ms M £600 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman