DRN-2255938
The complaint
Mr K says Santander UK plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002. 
Mr K applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint because Santander recommended the policy to him 
but I dont think it was suitable.  Mr K had a medical condition when he bought the PPI which 
meant he wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy if hed had to take time off work in 
connection with that condition. 
Santander doesnt consider Mr K has provided sufficient evidence to show he was suffering 
from the condition in question when he bought the policy. It considers Mr K should provide 
written confirmation from his doctor of when the condition was diagnosed.
But Mr K has said throughout his complaint that the condition was diagnosed over thirty 
years ago. His testimony has been consistent, and hes provided evidence that suggests a 
former employer regarded his health as compromised as far back as 1996. So I dont think 
its unreasonable for me to accept what Mr K has told me about the condition he suffers from 
and when it was diagnosed. From what Ive seen, on balance I think its likely that Mr K was 
suffering from the condition hes referred to when he bought the policy.
In addition, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to expect Mr K to provide the 
medical evidence Santander is seeking.
The policy terms meant Mr K wouldnt have been covered if hed had to take time off work in 
connection with the condition he suffers from. Santander says this wouldve been discussed 
with Mr K before he bought the policy. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was the 
case, or that Santander asked questions to identify whether or not Mr K wouldve been 
affected by the policys exclusions. 
I dont think Mr K would have bought the policy if Santander had made it clear it wasnt 
suitable. So, I think Mr K has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
  
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr K in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr K the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK plc to pay compensation to 
Mr K in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman