DRN-4263297
The complaint
Ms C has complained Vanquis Bank Limited allowed a fraudulent credit card account to be 
opened in her name. Shes also unhappy about the £350 compensation Vanquis has offered 
for the delays and reputational damage.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms C discovered a credit card application had been made in her name with 
Vanquis. Shed received correspondence from their debt recovery agent (who Ill call M).
Ms C outlined to them that she was a victim of fraud and M handed the debt back to 
Vanquis. Ms C thought that was the end of it. A second debt recovery company (L) told her 
later in 2022 that Vanquis had sold her debt to them. Ms C complained to L and Vanquis.
Vanquis admitted in September 2022 that this had been a fraudulent application. They 
lodged a protective registration on the industry fraud database, CIFAS. Ms C was unhappy 
with this as she believed shed originally made her complaint in 2021 and no longer wanted 
this hanging over her.
Vanquis accepted theyd not acted on Ms actions in 2021 and offered Ms C £200 for the 
delays in sorting this out. Ms C rejected this and didnt understand why Vanquis wouldnt 
remove the protective registration as shed requested.
She brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Vanquis offered an additional £150 in 
compensation. Our investigator felt this was fair overall.
Ms C disagreed and has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 29 August 2023. I believed that what had happened 
meant more compensation should be paid to Ms C.
Both Ms C and Vanquis accepted these findings. I now have all I need to complete my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking.
Our investigator laid out the detail of what happened and when. Ive also had the benefit of 
Ms Cs detailed correspondence so will not be rehearsing the back story as I know all parties 
accept this.
Firstly it is clear that Vanquis knew as far back as October 2021 that this was a fraudulent 
application and didnt act on information they received from M. This is clearly wrong. Things 
would have had a different complexion if issues had been sorted out in 2021.
Ive reviewed what Ms C has told us. This includes:
her passionate arguments about how much distress the delays have caused her;
the impact on her reputation;
the additional questions and delays caused by the outstanding credit card account 
remaining on her credit record whilst in discussions with her mortgage company;
why she didnt understand Vanquis not removing the protective registration when she 
requested this (particularly as this was something they offered to her); and
the time she has spent trying to sort this out.
Putting things right
I believe Ms Cs concerns are valid and I do believe that £350 is inadequate for what has 
gone on here. I wont be asking Vanquis to give her what she believes is right, but I am 
asking them to increase this figure by £500 and pay her £850 in all. I believe this amount is 
fair and reasonable, taking into account what has happened and the impact on Ms C.
Vanquis has agreed to remove the protective registration and Ms C has accepted this 
resolution. However I am still instructing them to do this in case there has been any delays in 
initiating this.
I know Ms C is keen to be informed by Vanquis when the protective registration is going to 
be removed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to:
remove the CIFAS protective registration in Ms Cs name; and
pay Ms C £850 in total for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman