DRN-4217149
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that she hasnt received a full refund after she was the victim of an 
authorised push payment scam.
What happened
Miss S received a scam text message relating to a parcel. She followed a link in the 
message she received and entered her details. She said she was suspicious but proceeded 
anyway. Scammers then used this information to call Miss S ten minutes later, pretending to 
be from her bank saying her account was under threat and she needed to take action to 
protect her money. Miss S said the caller knew she was using an android device and they 
gave her a password to use if they needed to call back and speak to her again.
She was told she needed to apply for a £25,000 loan to cancel a loan that fraudsters had 
taken out in her name and she proceeded to do as instructed. The next day she was asked 
to make two payments and a third payment the following day - all to an account in someone 
elses name, held at a different bank. In total Miss S made payments totalling £30,600.
She was told not to tell anyone about the conversations or transactions she was carrying 
out. After the third payment she was told to delete her mobile banking app and to reload it 
and she would be given a new activation code, but the callers hung up on Miss S. She 
became concerned and visited her Lloyds branch where she was told she had been 
scammed.
At the time Miss S reported the scam to the bank she was asked if the caller had any 
personal information about her and she said they didnt. But she said they knew she had 
money in her account. She said she did check the telephone number of the caller, before 
making the third payment. The caller didnt explain why she needed to make the payments, 
or who they were being made to, and she did not ask about this either. And she didnt 
challenge the payments to an account held at a different bank even though she thought this 
was unusual at the time. Miss S said she was hoping to call the bank to check if the calls 
and her payments had been genuine, but she didnt have time.
Miss S received a partial refund of 50% of her losses from Lloyds bank. Her complaint is 
that she should receive a full refund. 
Miss S also received a default notice with regards to the loan repayments. Miss Ss 
representatives have indicated she is unable to meet the monthly repayments as they stand.
As Miss S was unhappy with the partial refund she received, and the remaining liability for 
the loan, she brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She recommended that Lloyds pay a further 50% 
of the third payment Miss S made as part of the scam (plus interest at the savings account 
rate). She thought Miss S didnt have a reasonable basis of belief when making the first two 
payments, but did for the third, when she checked the spoofed number she had been 
called on and it appeared to be from Lloyds. She said Miss S didnt have a reasonable basis 
of belief for the first two payments for the following reasons:
- Miss S had recognised warning signs throughout the call with the scammer but didnt 
take steps to verify the call was genuinely from her bank. 
- Miss S had said the conversation with the scammer in between the first and second 
payment made her suspicious and she noticed the payments were made to a 
different bank but didnt question this.
- She also made the payment to an unknown individual and the scammer didnt have 
any personal or account information about her when calling her initially. The only 
information the scammer had was that Miss S was using an Android device.
Our investigator also said she carefully considered Miss Ss personal circumstances and 
acknowledged some of the difficulties Miss S faced in her day-to-day life. But she didnt think 
Miss S was vulnerable for the purposes of the CRM code - that she was unable to protect 
herself from this type of scam. And importantly Miss S had identified the risks and taken 
some steps to protect herself, but not enough to say she had a reasonable basis of belief for 
all the payments. The investigator also considered Lloyds actions after it was notified of the 
scam, and its attempts to recover the money, but no funds remained in the recipient account.
Lloyds accepted the investigators findings. 
Miss Ss representatives carefully considered the investigators opinion but said as it was a 
lot of money they wanted an ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter. They also 
said Miss S would only be able to afford small payments towards the loan. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to say how sorry I am that Miss S has been the victim of such a cruel scam. 
My role here is to decide whether Lloyds offer is fair, in line with CRM code and other 
regulatory guidance in place at the time. The scammers are ultimately to blame for the 
distress she has suffered following these events. 
Having considered everything Im not recommending that Lloyds needs to refund anything 
more than its already agreed to. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss S, 
so Ill explain my findings.
As Lloyds has agreed to refund 50% of Miss Ss losses, I havent considered, in detail, the 
intervention that it took and the warnings it provided. Its already accepted fault in that 
regard.
The crux of this complaint is about the remaining 50% of Miss Ss losses which Lloyds 
initially said it didnt need to refund. It has relied on the exception to refund in full under the 
CRM code  that Miss S didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with 
Lloyds when she made these payments. Although it has now agreed to refund Miss S for the 
third payment that she made.  
This leaves me to consider Miss Ss actions and whether she had a reasonable basis for 
belief when making the first two payments.
I can see that Miss S was hooked in by the scammers and followed the instructions she was 
given on the phone. But I agree with the investigator that there were enough red flags about 
what she was being asked to do that ought to have caused her to ask more questions and be concerned that she wasnt speaking with Lloyds. I appreciate that Miss S might not have 
been able to recount every detail of the calls shed had with the scammers when reporting 
the scam to the bank. But the call where she first reports the scam to the bank is likely to be 
the most accurate version of events, so I have considered what she said here carefully.
- Miss S hasnt said that the caller had any detailed information about her that might 
have persuaded her they were calling from her bank. Its not clear why she thought 
she could then trust and follow the actions and make the payments s she was then 
tasked with by the caller.
- Miss S says she was instructed to take out the £25,000 loan to cancel one that had 
been fraudulently taken out. She said she didnt really understand and couldnt really 
comprehend what she was being asked to do. I appreciate Miss S might not have 
understood how banks systems work or how banks might react when fraud has taken 
place on an account. But its not clear why Miss S thought applying for a new loan 
would cancel a fraudulent one and she didnt question this at the time either. 
- The requests to make the payments came the morning after she successfully applied 
for the loan. With no explanation about why they were needed and who the payments 
were going to. Miss S had time to process what shed been asked to do and had the 
opportunity to contact the bank to verify if the calls she received had been genuine. 
The scam ran across three consecutive days so there wasnt the time pressure and 
the need to act quickly which we usually see in these types of scams. So Im not 
persuaded that Miss S reasonably followed these instructions. And she ought to have 
questioned why she needed to make any payments and who they were being made 
to. 
- There were other red flags about what she was being asked to do including that she 
was to keep the conversations and transactions a secret.
Having considered everything carefully Im not persuaded that Miss S had a reasonable 
basis of belief when making these two payments. I havent gone on to consider the third 
payment as Lloyds has agreed to refund this and so it now needs to make this refund.
Miss Ss personal circumstances
I have also considered Miss Ss personal circumstances and understand her representatives 
have said she is vulnerable. The CRM code defines vulnerability as:
A customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered
I can see Miss S has managed her bank account and finances prior to the scam and hasnt 
indicated that she needed any additional support from the bank or others in doing so. During 
the call with the bank, I can hear that Miss S is able to clearly recall and articulate the 
events.  Importantly she identified certain elements about what she was told to do by the 
scammers as suspicious. With this in mind, I dont think Miss S was vulnerable under the 
CRM code.
I appreciate this scam has impacted Miss S and her family and in general been a distressing 
experience. But I cant say the bank should refund anything further.
The outstanding loan
Miss S is liable for the remaining loan balance and its repayments. If she is unable to meet 
the monthly repayments, she should discuss this with Lloyds. Lloyds needs to treat Miss S fairly and sympathetically if she is in financial difficulties, but she will need to contact Lloyds 
to discuss repayment and her financial position.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Im not recommending any further refund beyond what Lloyds 
has already paid and agreed to refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman