DRN-2688179
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Creation Financial Services Limited offered poor customer service in
relation to Personal Identification Number (PIN) issues on her credit card. 
What happened
Mrs D and her son, who held an additional card for her account, received new credit
cards from Creation. She says they changed the PIN successfully at an Automated Teller
Machine (ATM). After the cards were activated she notified Creation that she was going
abroad and they updated their system with this information.
While overseas, Mrs D and her son tried to pay the balance for the hotel on their cards
but the payment kept declining. Mrs D tried to contact Creation but because of time
differences she was only able to reach the 24 hour lost and stolen helpline, who told her she
needed to ring the customer service telephone number during opening hours.
Mrs D rang Creation the following day and she says she was on the phone for 20 minutes
with no response. She then emailed the customer services co-ordinator who registered she
was going abroad and he rang Mrs D back. She said he told her that the card wasnt
blocked, the hotel payments terminal was faulty and she would be okay to try the payment
again.
Mrs D and her son tried the payment again but to no success so rang Creation again.
She says they were on hold for over 16 minutes without a response so emailed the customer
services co-ordinator, but he didnt respond.
Mrs Ds son realised that there may be an issue with the PIN for the credit card so Mrs
D said she spent 32 minutes on a call to Creation where they arranged a workaround to get
PIN reminders sent out. The PIN reminders were different to what they thought they had
changed them to at the ATMs previously.
Mrs D complained to Creation as the problems with the PIN had caused her great
embarrassment and humiliation on an overseas holiday to celebrate a landmark birthday and
wanted to be reimbursed for phone calls (she said she had spent £91.05) and compensation
for the impact this had on her and the holiday.
Creation paid £75 to her account to reflect the call waiting times but Mrs D brought the
complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ds complaint as they said Creation had not proved that the PIN
change was unsuccessful and poor customer service Mrs D received. Our investigator said
Creation should pay Mrs D an extra £100 on top of the £75 they credited to reflect the impact
it had on her.
Creation wanted the decision to be reviewed by an Ombudsman as they highlighted some
inconsistencies in the view of the investigator and were satisfied with how they handled the
complaint. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit cards should have been activated before attempting to change the PIN. This is
the root cause of the issue. I say this because if the cards were activated first then there
shouldnt have been an issue with the PIN and the payment in the hotel should have worked.
Im persuaded this is what happened here as this would explain why the attempt to change
the PIN did not work and why the new PIN received was different to the one Mrs D thought
she had changed it to. Creation have also said the failure of the PIN change was due to the
cards not being activated before the attempted PIN change. So Im satisfied thats what
happened here.
So, when Mrs D rang Creation, this is what she should have been told. An arrangement
could have been made to get a PIN reminder. This is what I would have expected to happen
when she called them.
Instead Mrs D said she was told incorrect information such as the card was fine and that it
was due to a faulty hotel payment terminal and to try again. When the PIN failed again I can
understand why Mrs D says she suffered embarrassment here.
So as a result of incorrect information given by the customer services co-ordinator I believe
this set in motion a chain of events which was avoidable, had the correct information been
given initially.
If Mrs D was told that she had not activated her credit card and therefore the PIN change
was unsuccessful she wouldnt have had to keep contacting Creation to resolve this. As she
was abroad the cost of the calls could be quite high. She said the calls cost her a total of
£91.05. Creation credited her £75 for the time she spent getting through to them.
Ive thought about whether £75 is fair and reasonable for the experience Mrs D had and I
dont think it is. Although I think she should have reasonably known the credit card needed to
be activated to carry out any activities with it, I think she genuinely thought she was
successful in changing the PIN. So while I dont think the initial call she made to Creation
was due to a fault on Creations behalf, I do think the information given by the customer
services co-ordinator led to confusion and Mrs D having to spend time and money to try and
resolve this.
To help resolve her complaint, Mrs D wants an explanation of why the PIN didnt work. I
dont believe Creation explained that it was a result of the credit card not being activated
first. As there is no copy of a final response letter to her complaint as it wasnt attached to
her complaint record and as the person who was dealing with this has left Creation I cant
see if this was included. I havent seen it detailed on any other information Creation have
provided to Mrs D. So I hope this explanation gives Mrs D closure to why her PIN kept
declining.
I dont feel the £75 credited reflects the incorrect information given to her which caused the
chain of events detailed in this letter and the impact this had on Mrs D. Because of this, I
think that Creation should pay Mrs D an extra £100 as compensation for the distress caused
here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Creation had no further comments to add, but Mrs D responded with further comments. In summary, she wanted written proof of the dates and times of the attempts to 
change the PINs and when both cards were activated. She wanted any awards to be paid 
directly to her and not to be credited to her Creation credit card. Mrs D forwarded me an 
email trail from Creation and said she wasnt told that she needed to activate the cards 
before she could change the PIN. She also said the card was used online before the holiday 
so she didnt think there would be any issues using it abroad. Mrs D also felt the award didnt 
take into account all of the circumstances which arose from Creations error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has raised a number of points in her response to my provisional decision. I have dealt 
with the points that I feel need further comment below.
Mrs D has asked for written proof of the times and the dates the PINs on the primary and 
secondary cards were attempted to be changed and when the cards were activated so Ive 
detailed these below:
Primary Card:
Date/time PIN change declined  25 June 2019  11:42
Card activated  26 June 2019  10:39
Secondary Card:
Date/time PIN change declined  31 May 2019  15:07
Card activated  4 June 2019  21:50
The above information is taken from screenshots of Creations system that they provided to 
our service and that Im satisfied can be fairly relied on as a record of what happened. So Im 
satisfied this proves why the PIN change wasnt successful as the cards were activated at a 
later date. 
Ive thought about what Mrs D has said about Creation not informing her she needed to 
activate the card before she can change the PIN. I asked Creation how a customer would 
know that they needed to do this. Creation forwarded on to me an example letter which is 
attached to a new card which would be similar to something Mrs D wouldve received. On 
this letter it does state activate now and you can continue to enjoy all the benefits of your 
card. While the letter doesnt explicitly state you need to activate the card before attempting 
to change the PIN, Im persuaded by the information in the letter that its clear the card 
should be activated before attempting to do anything with the card. 
Mrs D has said that the Creation card was used online to pay for something before she went 
abroad so she was under the impression that everything was fine with the card. But the card 
only worked online as by that time it had been activated. As payments online dont require 
the PIN to be entered then this is why the issue with the PIN hasnt been flagged here.
Moving onto the compensation awarded. Ive read everything that Mrs D has brought to my 
attention and gave it careful thought. But Im not persuaded to give a different amount of 
compensation. I say this as Creation has already credited her £75, so the further £100 I 
believe is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the impact the incorrect information on the 
telephone will have had on Mrs D. Within her additional points Mrs D acknowledges issues with a travel company arent 
anything to do with Creation, but she provided this to give context- but I hope shell 
understand that it would be unfair for me to hold Creation directly responsible for this. Mrs D 
also mentions the impact the PIN issues had on her son, however, the complaint is brought 
by Mrs D only and as her son is not a primary cardholder I can only look at the merits of the 
complaint from Mrs D and how the events impacted her as Creations customer. So overall 
Im still satisfied the additional £100 Ive awarded here is a fair amount to reflect the 
inconvenience and impact that Creations actions had here. 
In summary, Mrs Ds response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs D will be disappointed with the 
£100 award, but I hope she understands my reasons.
 
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested a further £100 compensation is fair in the circumstances and 
I agree this is a reasonable amount for the impact the incorrect information on the telephone 
will have had on Mrs D. 
Mrs D asked for any compensation to be paid directly to her and not credited to the credit 
card, which Im satisfied is a fair request. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Creation Financial Services Limited should pay Mrs D a further £100 
directly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman