DRN-3473551
The complaint
Mr U complains that the advice he was given by Kings in 2005 to transfer the benefits from 
his Armed Forces Pension Scheme (AFPS) into a personal pension was unsuitable.
In this complaint Mr U is represented by a third party, but for simplicity Ill refer to all actions 
and correspondence as being completed by Mr U himself.
What happened
Between 2004 and early 2005 Kings provided Mr U advice regarding the deferred defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme he held with the AFPS.
On 29 September 2004 Mr U completed a handwritten financial questionnaire. In this he 
recorded:
He was aged 50, married, with one financially dependent child.
He was type2 diabetic, managed by diet and medication.
He was an unemployed teacher and receiving benefits.
The income and expenditure completed showed he and his wife had a joint 
disposable income of £392 per month.
He had no financial liabilities such as loans, overdrafts or credit.
He had previously been bankrupt.
Following this, on 28 January 2005 a telephone conversation occurred between Mr U and 
Kings, during which Kings completed a pensions questionnaire. On this Kings recorded:
His attitude to risk (ATR) was 3/5 Balanced.
He had no other pension provision.
He needed day to day living costs only in retirement and wished to retire aged 60-
65.
He had no other means of raising finance or meeting his objectives.
Under the section General objectives the following were ticked as important:
To receive the maximum lump sum now.
To maximise the lump sum death benefits payable to my spouse/dependants 
because I am in ill health/good health. [side note  neither was lined through]
Ticked as unimportant was:
To have investment control of my pension fund
The following was noted as his personal objective:
I require cash to help clear some existing debts, including student loan, overdraft.
And the following was noted:
Understands JSA will be affected.
Following this, on the same day, Kings wrote to Mr U and explained his options. It included a 
projection of the benefits he could expect on retirement if he remained in the AFPS, and 
gave two options (Option one and Option two) for how Mr U could transfer his pension 
benefits so that he could take them early. It showed projected benefits of both these options 
and included the fees that would be charged.
It asked Mr U to complete and sign an instruction form indicating how he wished Kings to 
proceed. The choices were:
That I wish to pursue taking my Armed Forces benefits now, in accordance with 
option, and request that you proceed accordingly
That I do not wish to proceed
That I require more information before making a decision (please detail your 
requirements below)
Mr U completed this indicating he wished to take his Armed Forces benefits and proceed 
with Option 2.
As a result Kings wrote to him on 3 February 2005 its Suitability Report and Transfer Value 
Analysis and asked him to confirm his request once hed read the suitability report and other 
documents. The transfer from the AFPS into a personal pension was completed on 4 March 
2005 with a final transfer value of £73,395.20.
In November 2020, following advice from his representative, Mr U complained to Kings that 
the advice it had given him in 2005 to transfer the benefits from the AFPS was unsuitable. 
But Kings didnt uphold his complaint. It said the advice it had given him was not unsuitable 
given his circumstances at the time, and it had warned Mr U of the benefits and income he 
would be giving up if he chose to transfer his pension. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr U referred his complaint to our service. But Kings thought 
the complaint had been made too late under the regulators rules and didnt consent to us 
considering it. So our jurisdiction in relation to this complaint was the subject of an 
ombudsmans decision, in which it was decided that the complaint was made within the time 
limits so its merits could be considered by our service.
Having considered all the evidence, our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. 
She thought that Mr U shouldnt have been advised to transfer his defined benefit 
occupational pension into a personal pension, and that hed lost the valuable retirement 
benefits he was entitled to under the AFPS. And she thought Kings couldnt rely on the 
warnings it says it gave Mr U to justify its recommendation to transfer.
She thought that Kings should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
Finalised Guidance 17/9. And if it was identified that Mr U had suffered a loss, compensation 
to redress this loss would be payable.But Kings didnt agree, and it maintained that Mr Us complaint had been made too late 
under the regulators rules. In relation to the merits of the complaint, it said, in summary: 
The advice given to Mr U was in accordance with the rules and standards in force at 
the time and was suitable given his circumstances.
The investigator had considered the advice given against the standards and rules of 
2021 which was wrong and using hindsight.
The starting point was that the transfer wasnt suitable, and this was explained very 
clearly to Mr U over the telephone and in the supporting documents sent to him, but 
his circumstances meant it was suitable.
Mr U was clearly told on several occasions that hed receive lower benefits on 
retirement if he proceeded.
The full implications of transferring out, including that it wouldnt be in his long-term 
financial interests was clearly explained to Mr U during the initial telephone 
consultation.
The suitability letter set out the risks and implications of transferring, but made it clear 
that Mr U must judge whether accessing his pension early was the right thing to do in 
his personal circumstances.
Mr U was told he should not proceed if that would mean he lost benefits.
The information given to Kings at the time of the advice showed the benefits of taking 
the pension outweighed the benefit of leaving it given Mr Us personal situation at the 
time.
Mr Us attitude to risk was Balanced at the time of the advice.
But having considered these further submissions our investigator didnt change her view. 
She said, in summary:
Shed not used hindsight, and had considered the advice against the rules and 
standards in place in 2005.
Kings appeared to be placing the burden of responsibility to realise that the advice 
was unsuitable onto Mr U, which wasnt fair. Kings were the professional advisers so 
had a responsibility to make a clearly explained and balanced suitable 
recommendation.
Providing risk warnings doesnt make unsuitable advice become suitable.
Kings had not provided evidence which showed its recommendation to transfer 
benefits was suitable and how this met Mr Us needs and objectives.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly revisited the question of our services jurisdiction. Kings have maintained that the 
complaint has been made too late under the regulators rules. I have reconsidered the 
arguments and have reviewed my original jurisdiction decision. Having done so I see no 
reason to depart from my original conclusion that the complaint is within our jurisdiction. I 
dont think Mr U ought reasonably to have known he may have cause for complaint until he 
was advised as such by his representative, so I am satisfied that the complaint has been made within the time limits set down by the regulator.
As regards the suitability of the advice to transfer the benefits of his AFPS, I agree with the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons. Im satisfied the advice wasnt suitable. Ill 
explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Kings for Mr U. The regulators handbook at the time of the advice contained 
eleven Principles for businesses, which it said were fundamental obligations firms must 
adhere to (PRIN 1.1). These included: 
Principle 2  which required a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
Principle 6  which required a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
Principle 9  which required the firm to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability 
of its advicefor any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgement.
So the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They had to be complied with by regulated firms like Kings. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Us complaint. 
Mr U approached Kings for advice about his pension and retirement planning. He had a 
defined benefits occupational pension scheme (OPS) at the time, and Kings have said it was 
aware of the rules surrounding these particular pension schemes. But for clarity, the rules in 
place at the time of the advice, contained in COB 5.3.13 G(4) stated:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm 
should:
(a) Start by assuming it will not be suitable; and 
(b) Only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it is in the customers best interests.
When the firm is recommending a customer to transfer or opt out of any other type of 
occupational pension scheme, the suitability letter should include:
(a) A clear explanation why transferring or opting out is more suitable than remaining 
in the occupational scheme;
(b) 
So the onus was on Kings to start by assuming that the transfer of Mr Us occupational 
scheme was unsuitable. And Kings shouldve only recommended the transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate it was in Mr Us best interests. I note the wording of the presumption in 
the COB rules referred to an active member of a DB scheme, so there could be an argument 
that it didnt apply to members such as Mr U who had deferred benefits in his OPS. But 
active wasnt defined and could, by implication at least, extend to members such as Mr U. 
But, even if the presumption didnt apply at the time, it would still be for Kings to demonstrate 
that its advice was suitable for Mr U. And I think it has failed in this first and fundamental 
hurdle. Fact find
Kings has said there was an initial telephone consultation. Unfortunately Kings hasnt 
provided any record or notes of what was discussed, but it has said that it clearly explained 
the potential impact of transferring his pension, and it was Mr Us decision to go on to the 
next stage of the process. But I cant see how Mr U had anything to lose by going to the next 
stage. After all he was asking for its advice, and Kings could only give him that advice if it 
knew about his personal circumstances and objectives, which it didnt at that time. 
So following the initial consultation, Mr U completed a financial questionnaire. Ive 
summarised this in the background section of this decision, so I wont repeat it here. But 
having read it I can see Mr U and his wife didnt have much disposable income left each 
month. And Mr U was unable to work due to illness and his only income was through state 
benefits.
So Kings needed to ensure it fully understood Mr Us needs and whether they were 
reasonable or warranted. This is important as suitable advice is dependent on balancing 
Mr Us circumstances at the time, with his needs in retirement.
The initial report
Kings then sent Mr U The initial report on 28 January 2005. This summarised the previous 
telephone consultation and provided some information about how his current pension 
scheme worked, and the risks associated with taking his benefits early. It confirmed that 
Mr U wanted to obtain a cash lump sum from his pension, but he wasnt sure how much he 
needed, but was interested to see how much he could get. 
Kings also included a warning to Mr U that taking his pension benefits early may put his 
state benefits at risk, and that he should speak to his local benefits office. Kings warned him 
You should not proceed if you will lose benefits as a result."
This is an important point as it is fundamental to the advice Kings should give. But I cant see 
Kings explored this any further, and given its importance I think it should have.
Mr U completed the options part of this form, indicating he wished to take his pension 
benefits early by transferring its benefits to a personal pension plan.
The suitability report
As a result of the option Mr U had chosen, Kings provided him with the above-named 
document. In the introduction it said the following:
We provided you with relevant information about your options in a Report (the Initial
Report) dated 28th January 2005. Subsequent to receiving this report, you have asked 
us to proceed on the basis of Option 2. The purpose of this Suitability Report is to 
confirm your decision, and to make certain recommendations in the light of your
decision to proceed.
But the document (and the attachments) just gave Mr U information. I cant see that it made 
any formal recommendation other than agreeing to facilitate his request after he was able to 
fully consider the ramifications. But this isnt what a suitability report should be. It should 
spell out Mr Us options, take into account his personal circumstances and financial 
objectives, and as required under COB 5.3.13 G(4), provide a firm and justified 
recommendation of how it thought Mr U should proceed. Taking the tax-free cash (TFC)
The personal objective recorded for Mr U was to take tax-free cash (TFC) to help clear 
some existing debts, including student loan [and] overdraft. But this objective is at odds with 
the information that Mr U himself provided in the earlier financial questionnaire hed filled in. 
The section about liabilities, including loans and overdrafts, hed lined through, indicating 
that there werent any. And I cant see that this discrepancy was explored at all by Kings 
during the following call. I also cant see how much TFC Mr U thought was required to cover 
the debts and loans, which I submit is a fundamental piece of information required by Kings 
in order for it to give suitable advice on what Mr U should do. 
But I cant see that Mr U was even aware, before being told by Kings, that he may be able to 
release cash from his pension fund before retirement. I think, on balance, given the overdraft 
and student loan wasnt mentioned originally, it is more likely that Kings told him he had the 
opportunity to take TFC upon switching, and as a result it was then recorded that he would 
use the TFC to help clear an overdraft and the student loan, as some reason had to be 
recorded.
I also cant see that Kings explored any alternatives for raising the money for the debt 
clearance. The suitability report indicates that Mr U said he didnt have any other means of 
doing this. But Kings had a duty to explore what alternatives were available. And whilst it 
may be understandable, given his limited disposable income and lending history, that 
alternatives may have been difficult or expensive, these would probably, in the longer term, 
have worked out cheaper than reducing his income for the entire period of his retirement. 
And there was no suggestion that Mr U was unable to furnish the debt despite his limited 
income. And in the case of the student loan, it shouldve been discussed whether it was 
even necessary to clear at that point given the manner, as the investigator said, that these 
loans were administered and eventually written off. 
Was the advice to transfer suitable?
When considering a case where someone has been advised to transfer their pension funds, 
the consumers circumstances at the time must be considered. And in order to make the 
advice to transfer suitable, it would need to be in the persons best interests. 
The personal pension, by Kings own admission, was more expensive, in terms of fees and 
charges than Mr Us occupational scheme. And as Ive already said, I dont think the advice 
to access the tax-free cash was suitable, so there needed to be other compelling reasons 
why it was in Mr Us best interests to switch at the point he did. And Im not satisfied that 
there were. In order for the transfer to be in his best interests, it would usually need to have 
a good chance of significantly improving on the guaranteed benefits that came with his 
occupational pension scheme. In order to demonstrate the potential future gains of a 
personal pension compared with his current scheme, Kings provided Mr U with a Pension 
Transfer Analysis document.
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates'
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the benefits of Mr Us occupational 
pension at retirement aged 60 was around 9.7% per year. When the advice was given, the 
relevant discount rate was 6.6% per year for 9 years to retirement. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5% per year. And taking into account Mr Us recorded Balanced 
ATR, this shows that a personal pension was highly unlikely to even match the benefits Mr U 
would probably achieve at retirement if he remained in his occupational scheme. 
Ive also considered if Mr U had the capacity to absorb any potential losses to a personal 
pension, given that it was subject to market volatility and additional fees and charges. At the 
time of advice Mr U had no assets, was unable to work due to illness, and was receiving 
state benefits. He appeared to have no other source of retirement income, other than the 
state pension, so in effect he would have been relying on his occupational pension to 
support him in his retirement. So I cant see he had any capacity to absorb any losses on 
this pension transfer. 
Ultimately a pension is intended for a person to use in their retirement. Kings role was to 
advise the most appropriate course of action Mr U could take with his occupational pension 
in order to meet his objectives. The most appropriate advice, given the apparent lack of any 
pressing need, wouldve been to advise him not to take his pension benefits at that point and 
leave his pension in situ until retirement. But Kings didnt advise Mr U against transferring. It 
actually recommended that he did, despite acknowledging that he would be worse off in 
retirement and the death benefits, which he said were important to him, wouldnt be as good. 
Explaining risk and giving warnings doesnt abdicate Kings from its responsibility to provide 
appropriate advice. 
The advice and recommendation that Kings gave to Mr U, to transfer the benefits of his 
defined benefits occupational pension scheme to a personal pension, was unsuitable.
Having concluded the advice Kings gave Mr U was unsuitable, I need to consider what I 
think Mr U wouldve most likely done had Kings advised him to leave his AFPS untouched at 
that time. And there is nothing to suggest its likely he wouldve gone against its advice. Mr U 
was inexperienced in financial planning and had sought the advice of an independent 
financial adviser, so it follows that Im satisfied he wouldve most likely followed that advice. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr U, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Kings must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Us acceptance of the decision.
Kings may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Us 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Us SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Us pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr U as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr U within 90 days of the date 
Kings receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Kings 
to pay Mr U.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Kings deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr U how much has been taken off. Kings should give Mr U a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr U asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Kings to redress Mr U as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman