DRN-3784087
The complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland (BOS) trading as Halifax acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to his account when he was struggling financially. If BOS had reviewed his overdraft 
usage it wouldve realised he wouldnt have been able to repay what he owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
What happened
Mr D held an account with an overdraft facility with a limit of £10,000. Mr Ds account was 
continually overdrawn and didnt see a credit balance until he repaid his overdraft with funds 
he received from an inheritance in September 2021. Mr D complained to BOS regarding the 
overdraft charges applied to the account which he says caused him financial difficulties.  
BOS says all the charges were correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. It says it supported Mr D by writing to him regarding the status of the account and 
asking him to contact its financial support team and providing the details of external debt 
advice organisations that could help but that Mr D never got in touch with it regarding 
financial difficulties.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought having reviewed 
Mr Ds statements from March 2016 that BOS should refund all fees and charges applied to 
Mr Ds account between 18 March 2016 to 7 September 2021 (when Mr D paid the overdraft 
off) because Mr Ds account hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for a considerable 
amount of time and a review of his accounts wouldve suggested that he was at risk of not 
repaying this credit facility. 
BOS disagreed. It says since 2019 it had supported Mr D by writing to Mr D about his 
overdraft usage, but Mr D hadnt responded. BOS says Mr D received regular high credits 
from several sources and that it was Mr Ds choice to transfers funds received out of the 
account rather than pay down his overdraft. 
So the complaint came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear this decision covers the period from March 2016 to when Mr D received 
BOSs final response letter in March 2022.
BOS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im in agreement with our adjudicator and 
think BOS acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees 
from 18 March 2016.  By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr D was in no position 
to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, BOS ought to have realised that Mr Ds use of his overdraft was unsustainable. 
Mr Ds statements show that he was consistently overdrawn and near the top of his limit and 
although in most months Mr D received a regular salary which brought the overdraft down, 
within days, as soon as his bills were paid, he would once again be near his overdraft limit. 
Overall Mr Ds overdraft was not reducing. 
I accept that some of the transactions on Mr Ds account were discretionary, non-committed 
transactions but the vast majority of transactions were for the payment of loans, credit cards 
and essential bills and living. 
BOS says that Mr D had the opportunity to pay down his overdraft on a number of occasions 
when large credits were received into his account in 2017, 2020 and 2021. But Mr D has 
explained, and the bank statements show that the credit to his account in 2017 was for an 
estate which hadnt yet been settled and the later credits were income support grants during 
the pandemic when Mr D had a reduced income.  And despite these payments Mr Ds 
account remained overdrawn - as it had been for a number of years. BOS ought to have 
realised that Mr D was at a significant risk of being unable to repay what he already owed. 
BOS say Mr Ds never contacted it about being in financial difficulty. But by BOSs own 
admission it says it wrote to Mr D on a number of occasions regarding the use of his 
overdraft and offering support. So I think it was clearly aware Mr D wasnt using the overdraft 
as intended. BOS should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and 
treated Mr D with forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on 
the overdraft. 
Mr D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that BOS didnt treat 
Mr D fairly and he lost out because of what BOS did wrong. And this means that it should put 
things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of MR Ds complaint for BOS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds current overdraft balance on account so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to it from 18 March 2016 until 7 September 2021 are 
removed.
AND
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then BOS 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file.  HM Revenue & Customs requires BOS to take off tax from this interest. BOS must give Mr 
D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Bank of Scotland plc and 
direct it pay the fair compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman