DRN-2320246
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy and the effect this had on her renewal premium. Mrs B is 
represented in this matter by Mr B, a named driver on her policy. He wants further 
compensation for his effort in resolving the matter or to be allowed to cancel the policy 
without charges. 
What happened
Mr B told Admiral that Mrs B had nudged a neighbours car. Admiral settled the other drivers 
damage claim. But Mr B was unhappy that Admiral hadnt investigated the claim fully before 
doing this. Admiral agreed that it hadnt conducted a consistency report on the claimed for 
damage. And it said it hadnt chased Mr B for his photographs of the cars. It offered Mrs B 
£100 compensation and allowed her No Claims Discount (NCD). But Mr B was unhappy that 
their premium went up at renewal.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
should have made a better investigation before settling the claim. But he thought its review 
hadnt changed the outcome. He thought its offer of compensation and to allow the NCD was 
fair and reasonable. He also looked at how Admiral calculated the renewal premium, and he 
thought this was correct. He thought Mrs B could have shopped around if she was unhappy 
with this. 
Mr B replied that Admiral had set up a claim in error and both it and Mrs B had made a 
mistake. He said there was no evidence of damage caused and he wanted to know if a 
consistency report had been done. He thought Admiral should do more to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B thought that, on reflection, Mrs B had made a mistake and not nudged the other car. 
Admiral said it had relied on the other insurers claim and Mr Bs admission that Mrs B had 
touched the other car. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident, or if an accident has 
occurred. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply 
to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mrs B 
the same as someone else in her position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs B to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs B has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision. 
I think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on what had first been reported about the 
incident. This was that Mrs B had been reversing slowly into a parking bay and had nudged 
the other drivers car. This is closer to the event and so I think its more likely to be an 
accurate account than Mr Bs later reflection. 
Admiral has already agreed that its investigation was wanting. Admiral had an independent 
engineer inspect Mrs Bs car. But it said it hadnt asked for the other drivers engineering 
report to conduct a consistency report. It said it hadnt interpreted the engineers report on 
Mrs Bs car correctly when it spoke to her. It didnt chase Mr B for photographs of the cars. 
And, despite noting Mr Bs concerns, it settled the other drivers claim without fully 
investigating it. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see from its file that Admiral has tried to obtain the other drivers engineering report in 
order to conduct a consistency report. But this hasnt been provided to it. I can see that it 
reviewed the evidence it had available and concluded that it would still have to accept 
liability for the incident. This was based on Mrs Bs admission and the low cost of the other 
cars repairs. So the outcome for Mrs B wont change and she will have a fault recorded 
against her. I think thats fair and reasonable based on Admirals review of the claim and the 
evidence available. 
Admiral said it had allowed Mrs Bs NCD in acknowledgement of its errors. I think that was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But this doesnt make any difference to Mrs Bs 
NCD as she already had 0 years due to a previous incident. 
I can see that Mrs B and Mr B called Admiral several times to get information about the 
claim. I can also see that Admirals communication with them could have been better. 
Admiral offered Mrs B £100 compensation for this trouble and upset. I can understand that 
Mr B was caused inconvenience. But I think dealing with a claim always causes some 
inconvenience. So I think Admirals offer was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what 
Id require in similar circumstances. I dont require Admiral to increase this. 
Mr B was unhappy that their premium increased at renewal. Ive looked at how Admiral 
calculated this. And I think it was calculated fairly and correctly taking into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances. I think it was for Mrs B to decide whether or not to accept Admirals renewal 
offer. I think she had time in which to shop around for cheaper cover if she chose to. So I 
cant say that Admiral has made an error on this point.
Mr B was also concerned about the effect of the claim on his own NCD. But I cant see that 
hes raised this with Admiral first to give it a chance to respond. So I cant consider that 
further here. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman