DRN-3147069
The complaint
Mr B complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) granted him loans 
that were unaffordable.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr B took out a loan for £1,000 with Madison. The loan was to be repaid 
over 18 months with repayments set at £106.85 a month. 
In December 2020, Mr B took out a second loan with Madison. This was for £3,500 to be 
paid back over 24 months with repayments set at £280.38 a month.
In early 2021, Mr B complained that Madison had lent to him irresponsibly. He said Madison 
hadnt sufficiently checked his finances or personal situation to make sure hed be in a 
position to pay back the loans. Madison said it was satisfied it had acted correctly when it 
approved his loan applications.
 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She thought Madison had made fair lending decisions for both loans.
 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view. He said the bonus hed received from his 
employer in October 2020 was almost entirely used to service a charge card as was the loan 
from Madison in December 2020. He provided credit card statements to show outgoings for 
bills. He said he was placed on the Coronavirus job retention scheme for a time and had to 
utilise the FCA payment holiday, including for the first loan with Madison. His credit card 
payments were significantly higher than the minimum payment to avoid paying interest. He 
also referred to another case hed brought to our service (about a different lender) which had 
been upheld. 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 October 2021 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Madison to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr B could afford to repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Madison to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Loan 1
Before granting the first loan of £1,000 in March 2019, Madison gathered information from 
Mr B and it also checked his credit file. It says Mr B said his monthly income was £2,235 and 
it validated this using information from a credit reference agency. 
Madison says Mr B told it he paid £500 towards rent, £150 towards his existing credit 
commitments and £600 for all other outgoings. From the information on Mr Bs credit file, 
Madison calculated that Mr Bs existing credit commitments were higher than hed stated 
(£417.25 a month). It worked out that hed be left with around £610 disposable income after 
taking his outgoings and its loan repayment of £106.85 into account. 
Mr Bs credit file at the time of the loan application shows his total debt was £6,796. £3,932 
of this was for loans and £2,864 was for revolving credit. It shows he was only utilising 46% 
of the available credit on his credit cards at that time. Although there were some defaults 
showing on his credit file, none of these had occurred in the previous 12 months.
 
The credit file shows that Mr B was committed to paying £114 a month for an unsecured 
loan. There was also a payday loan with a balance of £160. If Mr B had also paid 5% of his 
defaulted loans and credit card balances, he would have been left with over £500 a month, 
after taking into account what hed told Madison about his outgoings and the new loan 
repayment.
I think the checks Madison carried out before granting the first loan were proportionate for 
the amount and duration of the loan. And these suggested the loan repayments were 
affordable. So, I think Madisons decision to grant the first loan was fair and reasonable.
 
Loan 2
In December 2020, Madison granted Mr B a second loan for £3,500. 
Madison says Mr B gave his income as £2,800 on his application for the second loan and 
this was validated as being accurate. After considering the information on his credit file, 
Madison worked out his outgoings were around £2,163 which was higher than the amount 
given by Mr B. After taking away the new loan repayment of £280.38, Madison calculated 
that Mr B would be left with around £357 disposable income and concluded the loan was 
affordable. 
Mr B had only recently finished paying off the first loan when Madison granted the second 
loan. It was for a higher amount and was for a longer period than the first. I can see that     
Mr B took slightly longer to pay off the first loan than what was set out in the agreement.    
Mr B says that he was given a payment holiday because of the impact of the Coronavirus 
pandemic on his employment. The information on credit file shows that Mr Bs debt was 
more than double what it was when Madison granted the first loan. It shows he was utilising 
94% of the available credit on his credit cards. 
Considering the above, I dont think the checks Madison carried out before granting the 
second loan were proportionate. So, Ive gone on to consider what I think proportionate 
checks would likely have shown. 
Mr B has provided bank statements for the months leading up to his application for the 
second loan. These show he was spending a significant amount of his salary on gambling 
transactions. He spent well over £4,000 on gambling in October and November 2020.
I appreciate that different checks show different things, but I think if Madison had carried out 
what Id consider to be proportionate checks, it would have discovered more about Mr Bs financial situation. If Madison had been aware of Mr Bs pattern of spending, I think it ought 
to have concluded that there was a significant risk that Mr B would struggle to repay the loan 
sustainably and that it was not appropriate to lend to him. 
Having considered everything Ive seen so far, I dont think Madison acted responsibly when 
it granted Mr B the second loan.
I set out what I intended to direct Madison to do to put things right. And I gave both parties 
the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr B said there was nothing further he would like to add. Madison said it accepted my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change them.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, Madison should:
Remove all interest and charges from the second loan and treat all the payments    
Mr B made as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Madison should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would have arisen to 
the date of settlement*
If reworking Mr Bs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Madison should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr B for the revised balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the 
second loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from this interest. Madison should give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman