DRN-1699056
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc reduced his credit limit from £1,150 to £600 
without warning. Mr G uses the card for easy cash withdrawals both in the UK and abroad. 
He's unhappy his ability to do this has now been limited and that he hasn't been given a 
detailed explanation of why this action has been taken. Mr G points out this is the second 
time the credit limit has been reduced. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead, I'll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of Mr G's account allow Sainsbury's Bank to alter the credit 
limit at any time. It explains that where a credit limit is lowered the amount of notice it 
provides will depend on the reason it is being lowered. Mr G was sent a text message 
explaining his limit was being reduced.  I'm therefore satisfied Sainsbury's Bank was 
entitled to reduce Mr G's credit limit and it didn't need to give him notice.
 
Sainsbury's Bank has shared information with this service which explains in detail the 
reasons behind why it reduced Mr G's credit limit. I can't share this information with 
Mr G as it has been shared in confidence and contains commercially sensitive 
information. I can appreciate why Mr G is frustrated he hasn't been provided with a 
meaningful explanation of the reasons the decision was made. But, having reviewed 
that information I'm satisfied Sansbury's Bank had valid reasons for taking the action 
it did.
Mr G has confirmed that he was within the new spending limit of the card when the 
limit was reduced. And, other than being unhappy with the reduced credit limit, he 
has not suffered any financial loss associated with the reduction. 
 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr G's frustrations, I don't uphold this complaint.
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr G's complaint against Sainsbury's Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman