DRN-1908179
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has poorly handled a contents claim he 
made under his home insurance.
What happened
Mr Rs initial subsidence claim to UKI was in 2009. Since then our service has considered a 
number of complaints about what has happened since. This complaint is about UKIs actions 
in relation to Mr Rs contents claim made in June 2019. 
In June 2019, UKI returned a number of items to Mr R that had been kept in storage  
related to the wider subsidence claim. When Mr R received them, he said many of the items 
had suffered rust damage and were useless, so didnt want to hold on to them. So on 28 
June 2019 Mr R told UKI he wanted to make a contents claim for the damaged items. He 
said he would photograph and detail his items, and keep them in polythene for two weeks 
before disposing of them.
At the start of July 2019 UKI responded to say it wanted a list of items along with 
photographs. Mr R emailed the details of several items initially and said he would send the 
remaining items (of which there was around 50 in total) once UKI had agreed to pay for the 
first items. But Mr R didnt hear back, so he chased UKI on 12 July 2019. UKI responded on 
16 July 2019, apologising for the delay, and said the claim handler would be in touch shortly.
On 22 July 2019 Mr R complained to UKI about this delay. It responded later the same day, 
and asked him to provide a full list of his items he wished to claim for and told him not to 
dispose of any items. But Mr R had already disposed of his contents. UKI considered this 
and said Mr R shouldnt have taken these steps without its authorisation, and it was unable 
to inspect the items. And it said Mr R hadnt provided a full list of the items at that time as it 
had requested, so it couldnt assess the claim further.
UKI said it wouldve used a loss assessor to consider the damage, and that some of the 
items claimed for had been damaged over time from water ingress related to the subsidence 
claim. And as Mr R hadnt prevented damage to them by keeping them in affected parts of 
the home  which was against the terms of the policy. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said the policy was clear that policyholders had a responsibility to provide certain information 
or evidence for UKI to consider a claim. And in this case UKI had never agreed to Mr Rs 
disposal of the items, so he hadnt acted in line with the policy. The investigator also said the 
photos provided werent clear as to the cause of damage, so it was fair for UKI to have used 
a loss assessor to review the damage.
The investigator said UKI never agreed to his timeframe and he wasnt in a position to set it, 
so she was satisfied it had acted fairly by declining the claim as it had. Mr R highlighted 
previous claims hadnt required a physical review, but the investigator said this didnt change 
anything as it was a different situation.
UKI apologised for a five-day delay in responding to Mr R in July 2019, and the investigator 
agreed this was sufficient so it didnt need to do anything further. Mr R disagreed, and 
provided more detail about the life of the claim. Because no agreement was met, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As our investigator has outlined in her assessment previously, Mr Rs policy explains he has 
certain responsibilities and obligations as a policyholder. These include providing information 
and assistance to the insurer that is reasonably needed to deal with the claim. And the policy 
it specifies a policyholder must not dispose of any damage items before the insurer is given 
a chance to see them and confirm they can go ahead and do so. These are common terms 
across policies of this nature and reasonable.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr R disposed of his contents without UKIs authority, 
which was against the policy terms. But Mr R says he acted reasonably as he hadnt heard 
back from UKI, and because previous claims hadnt required a physical inspection.
Mr R told UKI it had a two week timeframe to deal with his claim before he disposed of 
items. Put simply, he wasnt in a position to set this deadline. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
UKI agreed or suggested this would be acceptable. And Im not persuaded UKIs lack of an 
immediate response could reasonably be taken as an acceptance of his terms.
Its clear to me that UKI couldve responded slightly quicker to Mr R. And that there was a 
delay of a few days which it admits. But Im not persuaded this meant Mr Rs actions were 
reasonable and Im satisfied its apology for this is sufficient. 
Ive gone on to consider if Mr Rs actions wouldve impacted how UKI handled the claim. 
UKI has raised questions about the items claimed for. Its said the photos provided arent 
enough to clarify the degree of damage. And its questioned how some of the items became 
damaged and whether Mr R had taken reasonable steps to prevent this.
These seem reasonable questions and considerations to me, and Im satisfied UKIs 
opportunity to consider the claim fully as it wouldve has been lost. 
In addition, even if UKI had agreed these items were damaged and covered by the policy, it 
would be able to consider if cleaning or repairing certain items was a possibility, which it now 
cannot consider. So overall, Im satisfied UKI has acted in line with the policy terms and fairly 
and reasonably by declining this claim. And Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Jack BaldryOmbudsman