DRN-2763864
Complaint
Mr D has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) unfairly accepted 
him as the guarantor on a guarantor loan taken out by his friend. He says he wasnt in a 
position to be able to afford to make the repayments to the loan in the event he had to. And 
he was pressured by the borrower into agreeing to be the guarantor on the loan.
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision of 31 March 2021
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr D and Buddy Loans had told us. And he thought 
that Buddy Loans shouldnt have accepted Mr D as the guarantor for this loan. So he upheld 
Mr Ds complaint. Buddy Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this 
complaint.
On 31 March 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Ds 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining Buddy Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr D could afford to make the loan payments in the event he had to 
before accepting him as the guarantor on this loan. I also explained that our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers (or 
prospective guarantors) income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the 
lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the 
borrower (or prospective guarantor) experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender 
to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide funds irresponsibly.
I then went on to consider the particulars of this case and set out that Buddy Loans provided 
the borrower with a guarantor loan for £5,000.00 in July 2018. It was secured by way of a 
guarantee and indemnity agreement and was to due be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of 
around £197.62.
Buddy Loans said it accepted Mr D as a guarantor after he provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It said it obtained a payslip verifying Mr Ds income and          
cross-checked his expenditure declaration against information on a credit search it carried 
out. And in Buddy Loans view, all of this information showed that Mr D would be able to 
make the loan repayments in the event he had to. On the other hand, Mr D said he was 
never in a position to afford these monthly payments.
I thought about what Mr D and Buddy Loans had said and the first comment I had was that 
the information provided did suggest Mr D was asked to provide details of his income and 
expenditure and Buddy Loans didnt just rely on what it was told. Our investigator thought 
that Buddy Loans needed to do more because Mr D had existing debts and this loan was for 
£5,000.00. But the credit search Buddy Loans carried showed that he had a low outstanding 
balance (in comparison to the credit limit) and a hire-purchase agreement. And both of these 
accounts were well managed.
So I didnt agree that the information on the credit file was too concerning, on the contrary I 
thought it suggested Mr D had a good track record of making his payments to credit and that 
he may have been in a stable enough position to maintain the payments to this loan in the 
event he had to. Equally Buddy Loans agent went through a detailed assessment of Mr Ds 
expenditure during the phone call. The information Mr D provided was plausible and 
consistent and when taken in conjunction with the credit check and what Mr Ds payslip 
showed, I didnt think that it was unreasonable for Buddy Loans to have accepted Mr D as a 
guarantor on this loan.
I accepted that Mr D might not have expected to make the payments and he might even felt 
that it was unfair to expect him to do so given it was the borrower who received the funds. 
But that was the nature of the agreement he entered into. And while Mr D said that he only 
agreed to be the guarantor because he was constantly contacted by the borrower claiming 
he had no one else who would help, it was his choice to do so and he didnt have to agree if 
he didnt want to. In any event, I couldnt see how Buddy Loans will have known this either. 
So I didnt think that any regret Mr D may now have at his decision meant that Buddy Loans 
acted unfairly when accepting his application to be the guarantor. 
I also thought about what Mr D said about the loan being unaffordable for the borrower. I 
thought that the borrowers inability or unwillingness to pay did at least suggest this might 
have been a possibility. But the problem here was that he didnt provide anything to 
demonstrate this was the case. On the contrary, in his initial letter of complaint to Buddy 
Loans, Mr D said that the borrower had secure employment at the time of the application but 
then went on to have a number of different employers which caused his income to become 
erratic. 
I thought that Mr D had described a change in the borrowers circumstances, causing his 
unwillingness or inability to repay, rather than an inability to repay from the outset. And this 
was the type of situation where the guarantor would be expected to step in. So in those 
circumstances, what Mr D had provided and what hed told me simply wasnt persuasive 
enough to make the finding he was asking me to make. 
I also explained that it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I didnt think that
Buddy Loans had done anything wrong. It accepted Mr D as a guarantor after having carried 
out proportionate checks, which suggested the repayments would be affordable for him in 
the event he had to make them. Mr Ds actions at the time, at least, also suggested he was 
willingly agreeing to act as a guarantor on this loan. Equally Buddy Loans was entitled to ask 
for payments from Mr D in addition to, or even instead of, the borrower in the event the loan 
payments werent being made.   
So overall I didnt think that Buddy Loans treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when 
accepting him as a guarantor on this loan. And as this was the case, I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Buddy Loans responded to confirm that it accepted my provisional decision and that it had 
nothing further that it wanted me to think about.
Mr D didnt provide anything further for me to think about or ask for any additional time to do 
so either.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Ms Ds complaint in my provisional 
decision. And, in the absence of anything further from either party, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
So having carefully considered everything, Im still not upholding Ms Ds complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint, Id like to remind Buddy Loans of its ongoing 
obligation to continue to exercise forbearance, should it choose to collect payments from   
Mr D and it be the case hes in financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision of 31 March 2021, Im not 
upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman