DRN-4216724
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that PayrNet Limited wont refund payments it 
didnt make. 
Mr N, who is a director of D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf. 
ANNA Money, who Ns account is with, is an agent for PayrNet. For ease, Ill mainly refer to 
ANNA throughout the decision, although PayrNet are ultimately responsible for this 
complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
ANNA declined to refund these unauthorised payments under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) because it asserts Mr N failed with gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account and keep Ds personalised security details safe.
In saying that, its pointed out how Mr N shared several one time passcodes (OTPs) 
with a fraudster despite the messages describing transactions and warning him not to 
share them. 
To assess whether Mr N failed with gross negligence, Ive reflected on the 
circumstances of the scam. Mr N said he received a call that appeared to come from 
ANNAs number  the caller told him they were from ANNAs fraud department and 
they instructed him to share the OTPs to block fraudulent payments from Ds 
account. Mr N said he couldnt properly access ANNAs app at the time, and in a 
moment of panic that D's account was comprimised, he foccused on the numbers 
they instucted him to share and didnt properly read the rest of the messages.
I can see why Mr N trusted the call was genuine  the phone number appeared 
correctly, they knew personal information about him, and messages genuinely came 
through from ANNA when hed been told to expect them. I can also understand why 
Mr N became panicked and acted with haste  he was duped into believing Ds 
money was at risk and he needed to act urgently, which seemingly coincided with 
multiple messages he was receiving from ANNA. 
ANNA submits it was grossly neligent Mr N didnt properly read its messages with the 
OTPs. But given that he trusted the caller and was panicked about Ds money, I can 
see how he simply looked for the OTPs. 
In saying that, Im mindful of how commonly OTPs are used, by lots of companies for 
several different purposes. Given their prevalence, Ive doubts whether lots of peoiple 
take the time to read these messages in full  and instead trust theyre for what 
theyve been told. It follows that, in the circumstances of an organised and deceptive 
scam, I dont think I could fairly say Mr N acted so far below what a reasonable 
person wouldve done.  
This isnt to say Mr N acted perfectly reasonably  its possible to call his actions 
careless. But, having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded 
ANNA has shown he acted with very significant carelessness to conclude he failed 
with gross negligence.
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider D can be fairly held liable for 
these unauthorised payments and ANNA needs to put things right  by refunding its 
losses from the payments alongside 8% simple interest per year to compensate it for 
the time its been out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ds complaint. PayrNet Limited must:
Pay D the total of the unauthorised payments less any amount recovered or already 
refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman