DRN-1705519
 
The complaint
Miss A complains she was given unsuitable investment advice by Wesleyan Financial 
Services Limited. 
In summary, she says:
She was wrongly advised to transfer her ISA from a third party provider to Wesleyan. 
Although she hasnt suffered an actual loss if shed been told about the projected 
losses over 10 years she wouldnt have transferred her ISA. 
Shes concerned about tampering of the original application form. 
Wesleyan failed to separate a 2018-2019 With-Profits stocks and shares ISA from 
the transferred ISA. She doesnt know the return shes getting back from the two. 
 
What happened
 In February 2018, Miss A was advised the following:
To transfer £89,107 from her existing ISA provider to Wesleyan.
Invest £10,000 lump sum. 
Save £833 a month.    
 
It was recorded that Miss A worked in the medical profession and earned £114,000 a year. 
She had money in cash accounts, direct investments, Personal Equity Plans, Individual 
Savings Accounts (ISAs) and Investment Bonds. 
In January 2019, Miss A met with a new adviser and then raised concerns about the advice 
she received in 2018.  
Wesleyan hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it says:
It was satisfied that the advice to transfer Miss As ISA was suitable.
Miss A wanted to take advantage of what Wesleyan was offering in terms of on-going 
advice and it made clear the higher charges for its services. 
Miss As attitude to risk was discussed at length and she was made aware of the 
risks involved as shown in the Key Features Document (KFD) and Illustration. 
The loss Miss A refers to is simply based upon future projections taking into account 
the new charges as opposed to an actual loss. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:There were a number of factors offered by Wesleyan thats likely to have persuaded 
Miss A to transfer her ISA to Wesleyan. 
Despite what Miss A says, hes not persuaded that she wouldve done things 
differently as it offered to re-balance her investment portfolio from high risk to 
medium risk, more in line with her attitude to risk. And whilst charges were higher 
with Wesleyan, it offered to provide ongoing advice including an annual review, 
access to a financial adviser, and updates on her general financial circumstances, all 
of which wouldve been made clear to Miss A in the suitability letter. 
Prior to the transfer Miss A had a higher investment risk and no access to on-going 
advice. 
The documentation provided made reasonably clear that the figure of £10,000 was 
quoted as the difference in the projected values in ten years time. This wasnt an 
actual loss. 
Its not fair that Wesleyan should reimburse Miss A for any financial losses as none 
of the investment projections were guaranteed.
On balance hes satisfied that the correct documentation about projections was sent 
to Miss A. Although its possible it was lost in the post but hes unable to hold 
Wesleyan responsible for this. 
Its not our role to determine if a fraudulent activity has taken place that would be a 
matter for the courts to decide. But this matter and the one about the separate 
investment will need to be raised with the business separately, and give the business 
an opportunity to respond before he can deal with the issues.
 
Miss A disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, she said:
It was never a requirement of hers to obtain ongoing advice. Any suggestion that it 
was is a fabrication, especially considering that no advice was taken whilst her funds 
were with the third party provider for many years. 
It was made clear that her investments would go from high risk funds to medium risk 
with Wesleyan. But no mention was made of the impact management charges or the 
dip in performance over a 10 year period would have. 
She questions why the adviser only wrote to her after six months of silence in August 
2018, referring to documents (dated March 2018) that she never received.
She remains concerned about the tampering on the application form (in relation to 
which shes provided evidence supporting her concerns) and Wesleyans failure to 
separate her new ISA from the transferred ISA.  
Shed like us to consider why her second point of complaint wasnt considered. And 
to reconsider the third point of complaint which Wesleyan has responded to in an 
email dated May 2019. She maintains both points were initially raised with Wesleyan 
over the telephone.  
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Miss A says, Im unable to safely 
say that the advice to transfer her investment was unsuitable.
Before I explain further, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Miss 
A has about this matter.
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points.
I appreciate Miss A feels her points havent been considered properly, and Im sorry she 
feels that way. My role is to consider the evidence presented by her and Wesleyan, and 
reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case, rather than take any sides.  
Its not my role to regulate or punish Wesleyan for any alleged breaches, thats the role of 
the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to consider whether 
or not Wesleyan has done anything wrong. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Im aware Miss A has raised numerous questions but my inability to answer particular 
questions doesnt prevent me from reaching a decision in this case. 
Despite what Miss A says, I think its more likely (than not) she welcomed annual reviews, 
access to a financial adviser and updates regarding her general financial circumstances as 
part of the services offered by Wesleyan. Im aware that these were services she didnt have 
access to with her old provider. 
Im not suggesting that ongoing advice was her sole motivation but certainly one of the key 
factors that she wouldve taken into account as part of her decision making process when 
deciding to transfer her ISA to Wesleyan. And based on the suitability letter it seems that she 
wasnt particularly happy with the way her investments were being managed by the old 
provider.
I think Miss A wouldve known that the additional services offered by Wesleyan wouldnt 
have been for free. Im mindful that she has a reasonable amount of financial experience 
and is therefore likely to be familiar with how this would work. In the circumstances on balance Im satisfied that the higher charges wouldve been 
reasonably clear to Miss A, and on the face of it she seemed to be content with that, before 
signing documentation agreeing to go ahead with Wesleyan. 
Im aware that without advice Miss As ISA provider was charging on average 1.3% whereas 
Wesleyan was charging 1.7% (with ongoing advice) plus the initial 3%. I note Miss A 
subsequently opted for the Ongoing Advice Service (OAS) which has reduced her charges 
by 0.5%, which doesnt suggest that this wasnt something she wasnt interested in at all. 
I also think its likely that Miss As attitude to risk wouldve been discussed at length resulting 
in her decision to follow Wesleyans recommendation to move away from higher risk funds to 
more medium risk funds, which I dont think was unreasonable. I understand that this was so 
it would be more in line with her attitude to risk, and her investments would stand a better 
chance of growing without exposure to higher risks. 
That said Ive seen nothing to suggest that any projections about investment growth  as 
shown in the Illustrations  were guaranteed. But I think Miss A ought reasonably to have 
been aware that her investments could go up or down, depending on the financial markets, 
and transferring to medium risk funds wasnt an absolute solution. 
I note Miss A is unhappy about what she feels is a £10,000 loss, and something she feels 
shes entitled to on the basis of her being given unsuitable advice to transfer her ISA. But in 
light of what Ive said above, I dont think this is an issue I now need to consider. 
Nevertheless, its important to make clear that whilst I appreciate Miss As concerns I 
understand that this is only a projected loss, as opposed to an actual loss, so its not 
something our service would offer compensation for in any case, even if I was to find the 
recommendation was unsuitable, which I dont. In other words, its not known whether (or 
not) this loss will materialise and our service doesnt compensate for future potential loses.
Im aware of the points made by Miss A about the suitability letter and financial report dated 
March 2018. Im conscious that those documents (as well as the August 2018 addendum 
letter) made reasonably clear the difference in the projected values. Whilst I note Miss As 
adamant that she hasnt received it, Im unable to safely say  having seen a copy of the 
March 2018 document with the correct name and address attached  that these werent sent 
by Wesleyan in the way that it was obliged to.  
But its possible that it was sent but was lost in the post. If thats what happened, and its 
possible that it may have, I cant hold Wesleyan responsible for the actions of a third-party 
postal service. Its not entirely clear however why Miss wouldnt have queried the lack of a 
suitability letter sooner. 
So even if August 2018 was the first time Miss A received documents about the projected 
loss   rather than in March 2018 when the documents were sent  Im unable to say that 
this was as a result of an error by the business, or that on balance these were deliberately 
withheld.   
I should make clear that the August 2018 document is not a suitability letter but was sent as 
part of a review of the March 2018 documentation which the adviser felt he couldve made 
clearer.
Its possible that there was some kind of discrepancy on the application form, in relation to 
the date, whether deliberate or negligent. But despite what Miss A says, I agree with the 
investigator that its not for us to determine whether or not a fraud has taken place, thats a matter for the courts. Even if the correct date was January 2018 as opposed to February, itd 
mean the suitability letter was sent a month later, as opposed to not being sent at all. 
I understand that Miss A had planned to invest separately into a stocks and shares ISA. I 
know that there has been some correspondence about this but it doesnt look like from the 
correspondence that this issue has been dealt with as a separate complaint matter.  This 
might be because it wasnt raised in March 2019 as a separate complaint point. I therefore 
agree with the investigator that this part of the complaint will have to be raised with 
Wesleyan first, giving it an opportunity to respond, before Miss A refers the complaint to our 
service if shes unhappy with the response.
I appreciate Miss A will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, Im not persuaded to require Wesleyan to do anything.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman