DRN-3154173
The complaint
Mr G complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his motor insurance
policy following a theft claim.  
What happened
Mr G took out a motor insurance policy with Calpe which started in January 2020.
Unfortunately, he was the victim of a theft in February 2020.
During their investigation into Mr Gs claim, Calpe found that Mr Gs brother (who Ill refer to
as Mr G2) was the owner and registered keeper of the car. Calpe said that didnt match what
Mr G had told them when he applied for the insurance. Instead, when applying for the policy,
Mr G had answered Yes to the question Are you the owner and registered keeper of the car
(or will you be)?.
Mr G had a follow up call with the business he bought the policy through to validate it, during
that he was asked to stop them if anything they said was incorrect. They said Mr G was the
registered owner and keeper, but Mr G didnt stop or correct them about that.
Calpe said this was important because they dont provide insurance to people unless they
are the owner and registered keeper of the car.
Mr G explained that Mr G2 had purchased the car on finance as a gift for his girlfriend. But,
when she no longer required it, it was subsequently gifted to Mr G for Christmas in 2019.
Because of this, Mr G said he considered the car to be his and that was why he answered
the question as he did.
Calpe accepted what Mr G had told them and agreed that it was likely a genuine claim. But,
they said that Mr Gs answer was still incorrect. And had he told them he wasnt the owner
and registered keeper they wouldnt have offered him a policy. Because of this, Calpe said
they would avoid Mr Gs policy  effectively meaning it never existed. This also meant there
was no longer a policy to claim under.
Calpe chose not to refund Mr G his premiums, on the basis they considered him to have
answered the question wrong deliberately  in order to obtain a policy he wasnt entitled to.
Either that or he had acted recklessly (i.e. had no regard to whether his answers were right
or wrong).
Mr G was unhappy with this so referred the matter to our service. An investigator here first
said they felt Mr G had been careless in his answer and that it would be fair for Calpe to at
least refund his premiums. However, they later said Mr G hadnt even been careless. This
was because they felt Mr G genuinely believed he was the owner and registered keeper of
the car  with it being given to him as a gift.
Calpe didnt agree with the investigator, they said Mr G had told them, when first making the
theft claim, that the owner of the car was his brother. And he had repeated that on the claim
forms he completed. Calpe maintained that they had treated Mr G fairly but, in an attempt to
resolve the matter, offered to refund his premiums.
The matter remained unresolved so was passed to me to decide. Because I was reaching a 
different conclusion to the investigator I issued a provisional decision. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out the considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Calpe think Mr G was deliberate or reckless in his actions. And say that if hed answered
correctly, they wouldnt have provided him with the policy.
Calpe have provided evidence to support that Mr G knew who the owner of the car was at
the point he claimed. So, they think he wouldve known that when applying for his policy too.
Calpe have also provided evidence showing that they wouldnt have offered the policy if they
had known Mr G wasnt the owner and registered keeper.
In view of that, Calpe were entitled under CIDRA to avoid the policy regardless of whether
Mr G was deliberate or reckless, or careless. But they wouldnt be allowed to do so if Mr G
was found to have taken reasonable care in his answers.
The investigator said Mr G had taken reasonable care. It was reasonable, in the
circumstances, to accept that Mr G2 had gifted the car to his brother  something I believe
Calpe also accept. And in an ordinary sense, it would be reasonable to believe you become
the owner upon receipt of such a gift.
However, forms need to be completed with the DVLA for a change of registered keeper to
occur. Its possible Mr G felt his brother had done that, or was going to do it. And if that was
the case it could be said Mr G was of a genuine and reasonable belief that he was both the
owner and registered keeper of the car.
Having listened to the call Mr G made when first making the claim though, he was asked
who the registered keeper of the car was and he said it was his brother, Mr G2. Ive also 
seen the claim form in which Mr G confirms Mr G2 as the owner of the car.
Because of this, I think it was fair for Calpe to say Mr G made a qualifying misrepresentation
under the Act when applying for the policy. That means it was reasonable for Calpe to avoid
the policy, because  but for the qualifying misrepresentation  the policy would never have
existed.
However, whether or not Mr G was deliberate or reckless, or careless does make a
difference. If he was deliberate or reckless, Calpe are entitled to retain the premiums he paid
for the policy. But if he was found to be careless, Mr G would be entitled to a refund.Calpe have already agreed to now treat Mr G as being careless. And I agree that would be a
fair outcome to this case. I think its unlikely Mr G would have known what answers Calpe
would and would not find acceptable. So, I think its unlikely he was answering incorrectly in
order to obtain a policy he knew he wasnt otherwise entitled to.
I also think its unlikely Mr G simply had no regard for whether or not his answers were
correct. Im sure Mr G was very pleased to have been gifted a car and in applying for the
policy just didnt take reasonable care to ensure his answers were correct. I think it was a
mistake to say he was the owner and registered keeper. And I consider that mistake to be no
more than careless.
Calpe replied to say they accept my provisional decision and have nothing further to add.
A representative for Mr G replied on his behalf. They feel that Calpe tried from the start to 
void the policy and that the question that Mr G was asked was Are you the owner and 
registered keeper of the car (or will you be)?. And therefore, Mr G answered that correctly 
because the intention was that he was going to be the owner and registered keeper.
Mr Gs representative also said:
it wasnt fair or reasonable to reject the claim because it was a genuine one;
the standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer and that a reasonable consumer 
would be readily confused as to the difference between the registered keeper and owner;
Mr G became the owner (in law) when he was gifted the car and he remained the owner 
when the loss occurred;
it makes no difference that Mr G2 remained the registered keeper. And that if Mr G said 
Mr G2 was the owner and registered keeper when making the claim that only serves to 
confirm his confusion regarding the concepts of ownership and registered keeper;
at the point Mr G made the claim he had been made aware that Mr G2 was still the 
registered keeper of the car, and thats why he said on the claim forms that Mr G was the 
owner of the car;
they didnt think it was the industry norm to decline insurance on the basis of someone 
not being the registered keeper and that more prominence ought to be given to the 
consequences of answering incorrectly. Every other question had been answered 
correctly. Questions which they feel are more pertinent to the risk, whereas the 
registered keeper is  in their view  of no effect;
Mr G clearly believed he was the registered keeper, that his belief was reasonable so it 
should not be deemed a qualifying misrepresentation;
Mr G was in no way seeking to mislead nor was he seeking any kind of financial gain. 
And that should be material to the question of whether a mistake could be considered a 
qualifying misrepresentation;
that the V5  to confirm registered keeper  has nothing to do with ownership. And that it 
was merely an administrative issue that it hadnt been completed.
Mr G was asked to confirm himself, during a phone call, as the registered owner and 
keeper (rather than owner and registered keeper) which further added to his confusion.
Mr Gs representative felt I should reach a conclusion that there was no qualifying 
misrepresentation, so I gave further consideration to the matter.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still think Calpe were reasonable in avoiding Mr Gs policy, but Ive addressed some of the 
points raised in response to that.
The first issue is the question of Are you the owner and registered keeper of the car (or will 
you be)?. I understand the point being made here, but beneath that question was the 
statement If your name is on the V5C log book then you are the registered keeper. So, I 
think that it was clear that the registered keeper might be someone other than the owner.
I dont think Mr G could have reasonably believed he was named on the V5C. It seems he 
wasnt sure where it was at the time of the claim, as he had to be advised it had been left in 
the glove compartment by the previous driver. Given he didnt know who was named on it, I 
dont think saying he was named on it was taking reasonable care. 
I think Mr G should have clicked on the Need help link which would have displayed the 
following:
What's the difference between owner and registered keeper?
If your name is on the V5C vehicle registration certificate (often called the logbook), youre 
the registered keeper.
If you bought the car, or received it as a gift, you will own it too.
Sometimes a company (such as a leasing company) or another person might own a car and 
be the registered keeper of the car, so please make sure you check your V5C.
I think when faced with a question they cant confidently answer in the positive, or which they 
dont understand, a reasonable consumer  taking reasonable care  would seek advice or 
at the very least read the Need help section. Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr G did 
either of those things.
I think answering without doing that shows a lack of reasonable care. I said before, I dont 
think Mr G made the misrepresentation deliberately or recklessly  or that he had any 
intention to mislead. But I do think it is fair to say he was careless in answering the question 
the way he did.
I appreciate its possible Mr G may have thought  if he wasnt named on the V5C log book  
 that he would be at a later point. But the Need help section said to make sure you check 
your V5C. In not doing so, I think Mr G showed a lack of reasonable care. And I dont think 
the (or will you be?) part of the question allows an indefinite period of time for the V5C to 
be updated.
On that note, I would add that its been said Mr G2 always intended to make Mr G the 
registered keeper of the car. Im not sure thats the case because Mr G2 had previously 
gifted the car and hadnt updated the registered keeper on that occasion either, despite 
around nine months having passed. It seems to me that Mr G2 considered himself to be the 
outright owner of the car, meaning he could ask for it back and gift it to someone else. 
Furthermore, Mr G2 had bought the car on finance and wasnt actually permitted, under 
those terms, to transfer or gift the car. So, its possible thats the reason the V5C wasnt 
updated on either occasion.
I would add that despite asking for an explanation as to why the registered keeper wasnt 
updated the first time the car was gifted, and whether it was the intention to do so on that occasion too, none has been forthcoming. It seems more likely to me that Mr G2 hadnt had 
the intention to update the V5C, as he hadnt done so on the previous occasion. Possibly, 
like before, because he still felt it was his (bearing in mind he was paying for it, he was the 
registered keeper and so he also retained responsibility for the vehicle tax, rather than Mr G 
taking it over).
I appreciate its possible he may never have asked for its return, but he also may never 
have updated the registered keeper.
As a reminder, Mr G also said Mr G2 was the owner when making the claim. It has been 
explained that the reason Mr G said this was because the police had told him that Mr G2 
was the registered keeper and that he was confused.
But it has also been said that Mr G understood, after talking to the police, that Mr G2 was the 
registered keeper  but not the owner. If Mr G understood the distinction at that point, I dont 
know why he would then say Mr G2  was the owner on the claim form, if he didnt think that 
was the case.
I see why Mr G would feel this is a very harsh outcome  particularly as it was his first car 
and first car insurance policy  but if he had taken reasonable care then Calpe wouldnt have 
given him the policy. And being impartial means I dont think I can reasonably say they 
should pay a claim, even a genuine one, on a policy which would otherwise never have 
existed.
For completeness, and to address some of the other points Mr Gs representative made.
A claim being genuine has no bearing on whether or not someone made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. Nor does it affect the remedies available to insurers if one has been 
made.
It is not in dispute that Mr G was reasonable to consider himself the owner of the car when 
applying for the policy.
It does make a difference that Mr G was not the registered keeper of the car, because Calpe 
have demonstrated that they wouldnt have provided the policy if hed answered correctly. 
I dont think its unusual for the answer to the owner and registered keeper question to be 
important to insurers underwriting decisions. And if an insurer chooses not to insure 
someone unless theyre the owner and registered keeper theyre entitled to do that.
It would also appear that wasnt the only question Mr G answered incorrectly, because he 
also said hed purchased the car in March 2019  it was the registered keeper who had 
bought it then. Although that is of little consequence given the policy has been avoided.
In any case of careless misrepresentation, it could be said that the applicant isnt trying to 
make a financial gain. If they were then it would be deliberate, and different remedies would 
be available to the insurer. I agree, Mr G was not deliberate in his misrepresentation. But I 
dont think he took sufficient care not to make a mistake, i.e. he was careless.
I appreciate we have a fair and reasonable remit and the consequences of all of this on Mr G 
are significant. But in assessing the case I need to consider whether or not Calpe followed 
CIDRA. I think they did, and while I accept that Mr G made a mistake and wasnt purposely 
trying to mislead Calpe, I dont think thats sufficient for me to say we should depart from the 
remedies outlined in CIDRA.Ive thought about what has been said about this being an administrative oversight which 
has nothing to do with risk. But it does, Calpe have made a business decision not to take on 
the risk of insuring a person who is not both the owner and the registered keeper of a car.
Ultimately, Mr G answered a question incorrectly when applying for his insurance policy. Had 
he taken care not to make a misrepresentation, he would have answered the question 
differently  and would not have been provided with the policy.
I maintain that Mr G failed to take reasonable care in his application, but I still think Calpe 
should refund his premiums as he did so only carelessly. I would like to reinforce though that 
I think Mr G made a mistake, he did not deliberately answer the question incorrectly, and 
hes unfortunate that his mistake has had significant consequences.  
Putting things right
Calpe Insurance Company Limited should refund Mr Gs premiums in full. Calpe should add 
interest to the refund at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date of avoiding the policy 
to the date the refund is issued. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Calpe to deduct tax from this interest. Calpe must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he asks for one.  
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint, I require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman