DRN-2934735
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold an Additions Active Account (AAA) in December 2010 
and a Tech and Travel Pack (TTP) in January 2017 by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale of the AAA in 2010
Mr S says that Barclays overwhelmed him with information and pressure when he took out 
the AAA, taking advantage, he says of the fact he wasnt familiar with the banking system in 
the UK. He also says he was not informed of the change of his account to a TTP and didnt 
have the opportunity to decline.
Barclays says that Mr S took out the AAA based on the information it had provided to him, 
and it says it didnt advise him to take the AAA or pressure him into doing so.
I wasnt present in the discussion when the AAA was sold so I can only look at the evidence 
available today.
I dont doubt Mr Ss honest recollections, but I think his memory is mistaken about the 
circumstances of the sale. Barclays has provided evidence that Mr S took out a fee free 
account six months before opening the AAA. So, in my view Mr S had no need to take the 
AAA if he didnt want it. And I think its more likely than not that Mr S knew that he had a 
choice whether to take out the AAA, and he chose to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence of a discussion about Mr Ss circumstances when the AAA was 
sold. And this service is aware that Barclays sales at this time were done on a non-advised 
basis. So, I think its more likely than not that Barclays did not recommend the AAA.
This means that Barclays was only required to provide Mr S with enough information for him 
to make an informed decision about the AAA himself.
And I think its more likely than not that Barclays did so. I say this because Barclays has 
provided evidence that it sent Mr S a welcome pack and he expressed an interest in the 
£300 interest free overdraft; he registered several times for the mobile phone insurance; and 
he made a claim in the travel insurance after a trip abroad.
The change to the TTP in 2017
Barclays has provided evidence that it sent two letters informing Mr S that it was closing the 
AAA and moving him to a similar product, the TTP, unless he said not to do so.
The letters are correctly addressed, so I think its more likely than not at least one was 
received at Mr Ss address. He says that he was abroad at the time. But there is no evidence 
that he informed Barclays of this. In my view Barclays is entitled to change its products 
provided it gives customers sufficient notice. And in this case, I think it took reasonable steps 
to do so.
So, although I know that Mr S will be disappointed, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong 
in the sale of the AAA or the migration to the TTP.
I understand Barclays has offered Mr S a gesture of goodwill for matters related to his 
account, and it is still open if he wishes to pursue it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman