DRN-3833328
The complaint
Mr N complains West Bay Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim he made on his gadget 
insurance policy.
Reference to West Bay includes its agents.
What happened
Mr N holds a gadget insurance policy with West Bay. He made a previous claim and was 
given a cash settlement to purchase a replacement phone.
Unfortunately, Mr N then lost that replacement phone so put in another claim to West Bay. 
West Bay declined that claim because it said the phone Mr N purchased wasnt covered by 
the policy because it wasnt either new or refurbished.
Mr N wasnt happy with this and complained. He said he couldnt purchase the phone from 
the link West Bay sent him so had to drive to get a replacement. He doesnt think its fair 
West Bay dont pay his claim. West Bay didnt change its stance, so, Mr N brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought West Bay was 
acting in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ns policy with West Bay insurers devices which are either new or refurbished. 
The device Mr N purchased following the first claim was neither new nor refurbished. 
So, its simply not covered by the policy.
I appreciate Mr N said he wasnt able to purchase the phone on the link West Bay 
sent him following that first claim. But West Bay cash settled that first claim, it didnt 
provide a replacement phone. Ultimately it was Mr Ns responsibility to purchase a 
replacement phone and make sure it met the terms and conditions of his policy with 
West Bay. I dont hold West Bay responsible for his choice to purchase the phone he 
did from the retailer he did.
Mr N said the link provided by West Bay was for a second-hand phone and not a 
refurbished one. And the retailer wasnt a network provider  as the policy requires it 
to be. I agree the website sells second-hand phones, and it doesnt look like a 
network provider either. But clicking on the link I disagree it wasnt for a refurbished 
phone; I think its clear the phone on the link is refurbished. I appreciate Mr N has 
said this wasnt the case when he clicked the link, and the content of the link may 
have now changed. This may well have been the case, but Ive not seen enough 
persuasive evidence to show this was most likely true. In any event, Mr N didnt 
purchase the phone on the link or any other phone from that provider as set out 
above.
Whats most relevant is that in order for the phone to be covered, it needed to be new 
or refurbished. I find that is clear in the policy documents. Mr Ns phone was neither 
new nor refurbished. Therefore, it wasnt covered by the policy and so it follows that 
West Bay are acting fairly and in line with the policy by declining this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman