DRN-1087386
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about the delays Aviva Insurance Limited has caused in settling her claim 
on her motor insurance policy. She wants compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused.
What happened
Miss B is a named driver on her sisters policy. She had an accident with another driver. She 
notified Aviva and she was unhappy that the call handler said she was likely to be held at 
fault before all the facts were made clear. Aviva said it would consider further evidence. But 
Miss B was then unhappy there was a delay in repairs being authorised. Aviva also had the 
wrong registration plate for the other drivers car. It contacted the insurer for this car and 
involvement was denied. Aviva then recorded the claim as fault and accepted liability. The 
claim was then closed.
Aviva received a police report and redirected the claim to the correct insurer nine months 
later. Aviva wrongly told the other insurer that it accepted liability. But when Miss B 
complained, it retracted this and offered her £30 compensation which it later increased to 
£330. Miss B was unhappy with this. She thought it should offer her £1,000. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there had 
been five areas of error that had caused delays in the claim and had an impact on Miss B. 
And so she thought Aviva should increase its offer to £500.
Miss B replied that this wasnt enough. Aviva replied that it stood by its offer. It said its offer 
took into account Miss Bs delays. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Bs frustration that this matter has been ongoing for over two years. I 
was sorry to hear that she had been assaulted and is still suffering because of the accident.
When an insurer makes mistakes, as Aviva agrees it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position as far as its possible to do so. We also consider the impact the 
errors had on the consumer. 
In its response to Miss Bs complaint, Aviva said it had considered two issues: that it had 
incorrectly admitted liability and this had potentially prejudiced Miss Bs personal injury claim; 
and, that there had been avoidable delays in the claim because it had recorded the incorrect 
registration for the other driver and so was pursuing the wrong insurer. To put this right, Aviva had withdrawn its admission of liability so Miss Bs claim for her 
uninsured losses could proceed. And it offered her £330 in total for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
But I dont think this goes far enough in the circumstances. Ill now explain why I think this.
Miss B was unhappy that when she notified Aviva of the claim it recorded it as a fault. But, 
from Avivas notes, Miss B was very confused about what had happened at this point. When 
Miss B complained and explained that the police may have CCTV evidence Aviva said it 
would pursue this, which it tried to without success. And it changed how the claim was 
recorded to non-fault. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as it restored 
Miss Bs position. From Avivas notes, she seemed content with this outcome. 
I think there were delays in having the repairs to the car authorised. Miss B had to call Aviva 
more than once to chase this up and to have all the repairs authorised. I dont think Aviva 
has compensated Miss B enough for this. 
I think Miss B wasnt given enough information about the legal cover available on the policy 
so that she could recover her uninsured losses. This came to light a year after the accident. 
Miss B said she may have been called by the solicitors but thought it was just a nuisance 
call. I cant see that Aviva followed this up at the time. So the solicitors closed their file. I 
think this caused avoidable delay in the claim. 
I think Aviva made a mistake when it closed the claim and accepted liability, albeit on a 
without prejudice basis. It mistakenly closed the claim as it wrongly thought it hadnt made 
an outlay when it already had an invoice for repairs. Also, it didnt tell Miss B this at the time. 
This came to Miss Bs attention a year later when her solicitors told her this may affect her 
personal liability claim. 
I cant see how Aviva came to have the wrong registration for the other drivers car. I cant 
see this recorded in its file. Miss B told it that shed written it down when she pursued the 
other driver. She also described his car. When the first insurer Aviva pursued denied liability, 
I cant see that Aviva checked this with Miss B or confirmed the cars description with the 
insurer. Aviva had tried to contact the police earlier in the claim but it didnt follow this up 
when Miss B told it that the other driver had admitted liability to the police. Contact with the 
police at this point may have clarified matters. 
The result was a further delay in the claim of six months. 
Taken together, I think these delays and mistakes caused Miss B significant distress and 
inconvenience. I think they could have been avoided if Aviva had made better contact with 
Miss B and followed up any outstanding information. Miss B now has the additional trouble 
of having to contact her current and previous insurer to reclaim any overpaid premium due to 
the open claim. 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended that to put things right Aviva should increase its offer of 
compensation to £500. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar 
circumstances.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Miss B £500 (£170 in addition to £330 already offered) in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman