DRN-2829375
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF). He also says they were wrong to terminate his agreement 
with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K but Im afraid I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. The car here was a little 
under six years old and had already completed about 29,743 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it be showing some signs of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMF were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Mr K first reported faults with the car to BMF within 
six months but I think they have been able to demonstrate that those faults were unlikely to 
have been present when they supplied the car to Mr K.
I say that because the independent inspector, who is an expert in these matters, has said so. 
He noted that there were faults with the cars cooling system, and he explained it couldnt be 
driven without the risking further problems. But the inspector said those faults would have 
become apparent earlier if they were present or developing at the point the car was supplied 
to Mr K. He didnt think it would be likely Mr K would have been able to complete 7,000 miles 
in the car with those sorts of problems.
Im persuaded by his expert opinion that is likely to be the case, so I dont think Ive seen 
enough information to suggest this car was of unsatisfactory quality and I am not asking 
BMF to take any further action about that.
Mr K has also complained that BMF were unreasonable when terminating his agreement. 
I understand that BMF sought to default the agreement in December 2019 as they claimed 
Mr K had abandoned the vehicle at the garage and was refusing to collect it. They later 
reversed that decision but have explained that as the car was SORN and uninsured Mr K 
was still in breach of his contract with them. The terms of Mr Ks contract explained that he 
needed to keep the car insured at all times, so I dont think BMF were wrong to suggest that. 
I understand that Mr K stopped making payments towards his agreement in December 2019 
and that BMF therefore issued a Notice of Default in late 2020 and subsequently defaulted 
the agreement. The terms of the finance explain that if payments are missed the business 
may be entitled to terminate the agreement and recover possession of the vehicle. Whilst 
some businesses may be prepared to suspend collection activities whilst this service reviews 
a complaint, we cant insist they do so. So, I cant say BMF have done anything wrong here 
and overall, whilst I can see this has been a very distressing time for Mr K, Im afraid Im not 
asking BMF to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman