DRN-4154811
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, calculated 
his balance and allocated payments he made.
What happened
Mr R had made several balance transfers (BTs) to his Tesco credit account which had 0% 
interest offers expiring at different times. Mr R was careful to always clear the BT amounts 
before the 0% interest offer expired, and he was also careful to clear any monthly purchase 
amounts he made on the credit account before interest on those purchase balances became 
due. So, Mr R was surprised when he received an account statement from Tesco which 
showed a balance he didnt recognise, and that interest had been incurred on the account.
Mr R complained to Tesco about his concerns but wasnt satisfied with the response he was 
given, especially as Tesco appeared to suggest that they were allocating payments hed 
made to the account in a manner that wasnt in keeping of the terms of the account. So, Mr 
R referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with both Mr R and Tesco. After 
a lengthy investigation it transpired that the balance Mr R didnt recognise was an 
accumulation of balance transfer fees that Mr R hadnt paid. Given the legitimacy of this 
balance, it was consequently confirmed that the manner in which Tesco had allocated 
payments Mr R had made to the account was correct and in line with the account terms. And 
this also meant that the interest that had accrued on the account was also correct. 
Mr R felt that Tesco hadnt effectively communicated the fees to him and asked our 
investigator to recommend that Tesco refund interest charges incurred on the cumulative fee 
balance and allow an interest free grace period for him to repay that balance. However, our 
investigator felt that the action Tesco had already taken  which included a four-month 
interest waiver and interest reimbursement  already represented a fair opportunity for Mr R 
to have addressed this balance and didnt feel that Tesco should be asked to waive any 
interest that had accrued beyond that point. Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service can only consider a point of complaint if that point of complaint has previously 
been raised to the respondent business so that the business has had the opportunity to 
consider and investigate it and to formally respond to it.
In this instance, Mr R complained to Tesco about how payments hed made to the account 
had been allocated to the various BT balances and monthly purchase balances, and about 
how interest had accrued on the account which he felt shouldnt have been the case. 
But its now been shown that  because of the cumulative balance of the many BT fees, 
which Mr R hadnt considered  that the way in which Tesco allocated the payments Mr R 
made to the account, and the interest that Tesco calculated as being due on the account, 
was correct. And Mr R has acknowledged this point in his correspondence with this service.
Mr R further complains that Tesco didnt clearly inform him about this BT fee cumulative 
balance, which he feels led to him not taking it into consideration and therefore incurring 
interest on the account. But I feel that this is a new and separate complaint to the one which 
Mr R initially raised with Tesco and is one which Mr R hasnt yet had the opportunity to 
articulate to Tesco or which Tesco have had the opportunity to formally respond to. 
As such, I wont be considering this further aspect of Mr Rs complaint in this letter, and I 
leave it to Mr R to raise his further complaint with Tesco, should he wish to do so.
Finally, regarding this complaint, Tesco have acknowledged that Mr R didnt receive the 
standard of service from them he was entitled to expect when he contacted them about the 
matter, including that several promised phone calls to Mr R werent made. Tesco have 
apologised to Mr R for this and have paid £75 to him as compensation for any upset or 
trouble he may have incurred as a result. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But the payment of £75 that Tesco have made 
for the poor service Mr R experienced feels fair to me here. And I can confirm its in line with 
the general framework this service uses when considering compensation amounts for upset 
and inconvenience  details of which are on this services website  and that its therefore 
commensurate with what I may have instructed Tesco to pay, had they not done so already. 
As such, I wont be instructing Tesco to take any further action in this specific regard.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint  about how Tesco allocated 
payments that Mr R made or about the interest that accrued on the account  because Im 
satisfied that these have been proven to have been undertaken correctly by Tesco. 
But I confirm that this decision doesnt in any way consider whether Mr R was clearly and 
accurately informed of the BT fees being applied to his account and the ongoing cumulative 
balance of those fees  or make any comment on Mr Rs own responsibilities to have been 
aware of those unpaid BT fee balances. 
And while it could be argued that this further complaint has only arisen because of the 
investigation conducted by our investigator here, I feel that for the sake of clarity of 
understanding, as well as because of the limitations imposed by the remit of this service as 
previously described, this further complaint should be the subject of a separate new 
complaint, so that Tesco have the opportunity to formally respond to it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman