The complaint
Mr T's complaint about Raisin Platforms Limited covers two main points:
It failed to provide him with a closing statement for a maturing savings account.
It provided a deposit confirmation for another savings account that was of poor
quality.
He's also unhappy with delays by Raisin in responding to his concerns.
What happened
Mr T had a savings account through Raisin's platform that matured in July 2019. He says no 
closing statement was provided, so he had to call to request one. There were then delays in 
responding to him, and he had to chase Raisin. Around the same time, he opened a new 
savings account through the platform and was unhappy that the confirmation 
documentation for this account was of poor quality. He felt it could be easily tampered with. 
He spoke with a manager who he says agreed to provide a different version, but he received 
nothing.
Raisin didn't uphold the complaint. It explained that it had provided a closing statement via 
Mr T's secure mailbox on the date of maturity and had also later provided him with a hard 
copy upon request. Raisin also said that in response to his concerns about the deposit 
confirmation it had queried with its partner bank whether anything else could be provided. 
There was no alternative available, but it confirmed to him that the document provided was a 
legally binding proof of deposit. Raisin also felt that it had responded to Mr T's concerns in 
time. 
Mr T referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as Raisin. He was satisfied Raisin had done nothing wrong.
Mr T responded to reiterate that he'd had to chase Raisin and also to highlight that it had not 
corresponded with him after it had responded to his complaint.
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to 
uphold the complaint, nor any reason why compensation might be warranted.
DRN-1864654I'm satisfied that upon maturity of his savings account Raisin made available to Mr T a 
closing statement though his secure mailbox. I've seen evidence the statement was read on 
13 August 2019, the date on which he called Raisin to say one hadn't been received. Raisin 
then provided a hard copy. 
It was on this same date, but on a separate call that Mr T raised the issue of the quality of 
the deposit statement. Recordings of his calls with Raisin aren't available. But it seems that, 
in any event, attempts were made to try to provide him with further documentation. And 
when this proved not to be possible, it was confirmed to him that the documentation provided 
was legally binding.
I note what Mr T has said about having to chase Raisin, but I've not seen anything in the 
chronology of events that suggests any unreasonable delay. From what I've seen it 
responded satisfactorily to his concerns and, in short, I don't think it did anything wrong.
In respect of Raisin not corresponding with him after it had issued its final response, this isn't 
unusual, and I think it was reasonable for Raisin to conclude that it was probably best for the 
matter to be left with us. I don't think there's anything it needed to add to what it had already 
told Mr T. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman