DRN-4142758
Complaint
Mr N has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
George Banco provided Mr N with a guarantor loan for £2,000.00 in January 2019. This loan 
had an APR of 61.8% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £3,178.32, including interest, fees and charges of £1,178.32, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of just over £130. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ns complaint and she thought George Banco 
shouldnt have provided Mr N with his loan. So she thought that Mr Ns complaint should be 
upheld. 
George Banco disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr N could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also have 
been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any 
way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
George Bancos checks, which relied on the use of average data suggested Mr N had close 
to £1,500.00 in disposable income. Yet George Banco has also provided information to 
suggest that it carried out a credit check before this loan was provided. The results of which 
showed that Mr N had had previous arrears on a credit card which he was over the limit on. I 
cant understand how the arrears and Mr N being over his credit limit reconciled with him 
having a disposable income of £1,500.00.
Furthermore, I think that George Banco also ought to have questioned whether Mr N 
genuinely had close to £1,500.00 a month available to him, given he wanted or needed to 
borrow £2,000.00 for a deposit, on such disadvantageous terms. In my view the information 
George Banco gathered called into question the accuracy of the disposable income figure it 
had arrived at. And I dont think that it was reasonable to rely on it in the way that George 
Banco did.
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mr N has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time of this loan. And while its possible   
Mr Ns difficulties reflected his choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my 
experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable 
or plausible arguments from George Banco, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ns version of 
events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ns existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown George Banco that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr N. As 
George Banco provided Mr N with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr N ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan he shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr N lost out because of what George Banco did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Mr N
Having thought about everything, George Banco should put things right for Mr N by:
refunding any interest, fees and charges that Mr N actually paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Mr N to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Ns credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman