DRN-2578993
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) has turned 
down a wind damage claim on their home insurance policy.
All references to AA include its agents.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs M took out a home insurance policy which was insured by AA. 
On 11 December 2019, Mr and Mrs M noticed that some lead flashing had fallen from their 
roof. So they got in touch with AA to make a claim.
AA explained that it couldnt send out a surveyor to look at the damage for a few days. Mr 
and Mrs M were able to get out their own builder, who Ill call B, to carry out repairs. B 
provided some photos of the damage and a report on what he thought had caused the 
damage to AA. Its own surveyor also attended Mr and Mrs Ms property the following day 
and took photos of the completed works.
Having considered the photos and Bs comments, AA turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It 
said there hadnt been prevailing storm winds around the time of the damage. So it said that 
the damage wasnt covered by the storm section of the policy. And it considered the damage 
had been down to faulty workmanship around the chimney. Faulty workmanship was 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with AAs decision. They asked us to look into their complaint. 
They said that the finding of poor workmanship was Bs opinion and difficult to prove. They 
told us the flashing had been in place for over 10 years, with a NHBC warranty (although this 
warranty didnt cover the chimney stacks). They also told us that B had been angry that his 
photos had been used to turn down the claim, even though hed found no evidence of faulty 
workmanship.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Hed considered 
local weather reports from around the time of the claim and he didnt think thered been 
storm conditions. He also considered whether AA shouldve settled Mr and Mrs Ms claim in 
line with the accidental damage section of the policy. But based on Bs comments and AAs 
surveyors opinion, he thought the most likely main cause of the damage was poor 
workmanship. So he thought itd been fair for AA to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They provided a detailed response to our investigator, which Ive 
summarised. They explained that theyd had discussions with different organisations, as well 
as AAs agents. They said they didnt realise that B had been discussing the claim directly 
with AA. If B hadnt sent this information onto AA, it wouldnt have had any evidence to base 
the rejection of their claim on.  They felt relying on poor workmanship was a non-starter, 
given the nature of their home. They also said that their NHBC warranty wouldve covered 
their roof around the time of the claim. They also sent in evidence of their NHBC certificate 
and surveyors report from the time of the purchase.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for AA to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Ill explain why.
First, while I summarised Mr and Mrs Ms responses to our investigators assessment, Id 
like to reassure them that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said and sent us. In 
making my decision though, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Mr and Mrs M claimed for wind damage to their roof. I appreciate they feel that they didnt 
make a storm damage claim. But the terms of their insurance policy, which forms the basis 
of their contract with AA list the insured events AA covers. Damage caused by high winds 
would usually be considered under storm cover. So I think it was appropriate for AA to 
initially look at the claim under this heading
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions that we need to ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
AA hasnt defined what it means by a storm in its policy. Where an insurer hasnt included a 
definition of what a storm is in its policy wording, wed generally say that a storm involves 
violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.  So this is what Ive thought about 
when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or around the date of Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim.
Ive carefully considered local weather reports for the weather report for the week the claim 
was made. I can see that the highest wind speed was 45 mph, recorded on 8 and 10 
December 2019. While these might be strong winds, I dont think theyre high enough to be 
considered as storm conditions. I also looked at whether there were heavy rains around the 
date of claim. But the maximum recorded rainfall that week was 1.6mm in 24 hours. I dont 
think this level of rainfall was substantial enough to be considered as storm conditions.
Overall, having considered the evidence, I dont think there were storm conditions on or 
around the date of the claim. This means the answer to the first question is no. And so I 
think it was reasonable for AA to conclude that the damage wasnt down to storm.
Should AA have dealt with the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy?
When Mr and Mrs M took out their home insurance policy, they included accidental damage 
cover. So Ive considered whether I think it was fair and reasonable for AA to decide the 
claim wasnt covered by this section of the policy.
The policy covers accidental loss or accidental damage to a policyholders building. But it 
also includes a list of things that the accidental damage section doesnt cover. One of these says:
faulty design or workmanship or using faulty materials.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M chose to get the works repaired before AA had had the 
chance to look at the roof, given theyve said they were told it would be a few days before a 
surveyor could attend. This means though that by the time the surveyor did attend, two days 
after the claim had been made; the damage had already been repaired. This means that the 
only available evidence AA had to assess the likely cause of the damage was Bs photos 
and comments. Id add at this point that it isnt unusual for an insurer to ask a policyholders 
own contractor to provide a cause of damage report or photos of the damage when its 
assessing a claim. I think it was reasonable for AA to obtain this information from B, who 
emailed it a copy of his photos and report, together with his email to Mr M.
So Ive turned to think about whether, based on the evidence to hand, it was reasonable for 
AA to conclude the damage was down to faulty workmanship. Ive looked carefully at Bs 
report. This says:
As you can see from the photos, existing lead aprons were completed in 2 separate pieces 
which caused the lower section of the back apron to come loose in high windsWe also 
noticed that the step flashings were not fixed with wedges in to the chases of the brickwork 
and instead just pointed with a lead sealant. Also the laps and cover where the step 
flashings and apron meet were not sufficient as you can also see from the photos. Both new 
aprons have been fixed properly using code 5 lead clips and new step flashings to sides, 
wedged into chases then pointed with a lead sealant. The end ridge tile has been re-bedded 
on new mortar.
Based on this report and the photos, AAs surveyor concluded that the damage was down to 
poor workmanship. He found: 
From an inspection it was noted that the lead flashing to the chimney has been fixed but on 
reading the e-mail from the roofer it seems clear that the lead flashing had not been wedged 
into the brickwork and had only been secured with the lead mastic, which is insufficient to 
keep the lead flashing secured and not best practice. Poor workmanship is responsible for 
the lead coming loose.
Im not a buildings expert and so in reaching my decision, I need to consider the expert 
evidence thats been provided to me. In this case, B mentioned issues with how the flashings 
had previously been fixed and that the laps and cover werent sufficient. And AAs surveyor 
stated that the lead sealant wasnt sufficient to secure the flashing and it was this that 
caused the flashing to come off. So based on the expert evidence I have available, I think it 
was fair for AA to conclude that the main cause of the roof damage was poor workmanship.
Mr and Mrs M say that B was angry that AA had reached this conclusion, because he hadnt 
found any evidence of poor workmanship. However, it doesnt seem as if theyve provided 
anything from B which would counter his initial report or AAs findings. And in the absence of 
such evidence, I think it was fair for AA to rely on Bs initial report and his photos.
I appreciate no issues were found with the roof during Mr and Mrs Ms initial purchase 
survey. But I dont think this is enough to show that the damage wasnt down to faulty 
workmanship. It seems Mr and Mrs M had cover through NHBC at the time of their claim. So 
its open to them to get in touch with NHBC now, if they havent already done so, if theyd 
like to make a claim on that cover. 
Overall, Im satisfied that there werent storm conditions at the time of Mr and Mrs Ms claim. And I think it was fair and reasonable for AA to consider the claim wasnt covered by the 
accidental damage section of the policy. This means that while I sympathise with their 
position, I think it was fair for AA to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman