DRN-2364227
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she received when she called Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited to add a family member to her breakdown cover.
What happened
Miss S has breakdown cover provided by the AA as part of her membership of that 
organisation.
She says she received a letter from them in June 2020 which contained a promotional offer 
saying she could add an extra person to her policy  at a cost of £2.50 per month  as long 
as they lived at the same address as her.
When Miss S rang the AA to take them up on that offer, she says she was denied the 
discount offered in the letter, her call was handled badly and the customer service provided 
was poor.
Miss S made a complaint to the AA. When they didnt uphold her complaint, she brought it to 
us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think the AA had done anything wrong.
Miss S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S made two calls to the AA on the day in question. In the first call, she was asked to 
provide a code number which would have been given in the promotional letter. It was 
explained that the code was needed to allow the agent to provide the discount in question.
Miss S said shed shredded the letter and didnt have the code number. The agent tried to 
find a copy of the letter on the AAs systems, but was unable to do so. 
She placed Miss S on hold for several minutes. When she returned to the call, she told 
Miss S shed need to transfer her to a colleague who had wider access to the part of the 
systems which might hold the letter  and the code.
At that point, Miss S complained about the service shed been provided. She asked to cancel 
her policy altogether and asked to be transferred to someone who could do that. When the 
agent said she could cancel the policy, the call terminated.
Conversations can be interpreted in different ways and mis-communication on a phone call 
is always a possibility, but I dont hear any evidence in that call of the agent being rude, 
uncooperative, obstructive or unreasonable in any way.
In the second call, Miss S says she wants to make a complaint about the first agent. The 
second agent logs a complaint, but also deals with Miss Ss request to add a family member 
to her policy.
The second agent apologises for any poor service Miss S has experienced. And then offers 
Miss S discounts on her policy  including a goodwill gesture for the problems on the first 
call  which taken as a whole meant that Miss S was paying less per month even with the 
extra person added to the policy.
During that call, Miss S compliments the agent on the standard of service shes provided and 
is evidently entirely satisfied with her new monthly payments.
So, looking at the overall picture, Miss S contacted the AA and despite the fact she couldnt 
produce the required promotional code, she ended up with a cheaper monthly payment and 
an extra person on her policy.
And as I say, having listened to both calls, I cant see any point at which she was treated 
unfairly or unreasonably in any way.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman