DRN-4355977
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs B have complained about the handling of a claim made under their legal 
expenses insurance with DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited. As this relates 
to a claim made by Mr E, for ease I will only refer to Mr E in this decision. 
What happened
Mr E has made a number of claims under his policy all arising out of employment and 
personal injury claims he wanted to pursue against his former employer. DAS provided cover 
for one of its panels solicitors to deal with his legal case but the cover was withdrawn in 
2019, following advice that the case did not have reasonable prospects of succeeding. 
Mr E has made complaints about the decision to withdraw cover and a number of other 
issues around the handling of his claim. These have been, or are being, considered 
separately. However, Mr E had ongoing claims, including against two solicitors that had 
been involved in his claim and against his union.  
In November 2021, Mr E made a complaint that the panel solicitors acting in relation to the 
ongoing claims had discriminated against him, on the basis of his disability. Mr E says he 
had asked for a different fee earner to deal with his claim and this was a reasonable 
adjustment, as his mental health was suffering having to continue with the same legal 
representative. Mr E says that by not making the reasonable adjustment, the solicitors were 
discriminating against him. He also wanted a barristers opinion on his claims. 
DAS said that any complaint about the solicitors conduct would have to be referred to their 
regulatory body  the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) but that it would also look into 
what he had said. There was further communication between DAS and Mr E over the next 
few months. DAS offered to move the claims to another panel firm, but Mr E said there was 
a conflict of interest with the alternative firm. He wanted the panel solicitors to continue with 
his claim but to agree to his reasonable adjustment and place the matters with another 
caseworker. DAS contacted the panel solicitors but they said they were unwilling to continue 
to represent Mr E, as they felt the professional relationship had broken down. DAS asked the 
panel solicitors if they would nevertheless get counsels opinion (which it would fund). DAS 
also asked the panel solicitors to provide a copy of its response to Mr Es complaint. In the 
end, as the panel solicitors did not agree to continue acting, the claims were referred to 
another panel firm. 
In February 2023, DAS issued a supplementary final response to this complaint (and some 
other complaint issues) in which it said that it had referred the solicitors response to Mr Es 
complaint to its Strategic Supplier Relationship Partner to consider and if, in their view, the 
solicitor has not properly addressed his complaint, they would raise it with the solicitors. The 
letter also set out again that DAS could not comment on the solicitors conduct as that was a 
matter for the SRA and Mr E would have to complain to them about the solicitors conduct or 
the quality of their work. It did not therefore uphold Mr Es complaint about this issue. 
Mr E remained unhappy with DASs response and so referred the matter to this service.     
Mr E has made a number of submissions in support of his complaint. I have considered 
everything he has said and have summarised his main points below: 
DAS referred him to a panel solicitor that discriminated against him, so it has a duty 
of care and should have protected his interests by insisting the reasonable 
adjustments he had asked for were made. 
DAS failed to protect his interests and refused to consider a disability discrimination 
claim against the panel solicitors on his behalf. 
DAS asked him for documentation and evidence in support of his complaint but has 
not told him the outcome of its investigation into the solicitors conduct. 
He was told the well-being of customers is of paramount importance so he should 
have been told the outcome; he was never told the investigation would be for DASs  
internal purposes only. 
DAS says it did not tell Mr E that it would investigate the allegation of discrimination but 
rather, in its final response letter of February 2023, that it would look into whether the panel 
solicitor had responded to Mr Es complaint and whether they had addressed it properly, and 
if not it would raise this with the panel solicitors. DAS says it also regularly audits its panel 
solicitor firms but this would not be directly as a result of Mr Es complaint and any such 
audit would be a commercial/contractual matter between it and its panel firm and would not 
be shared with Mr E. DAS says it also made clear it was not responsible for any panel 
solicitors conduct.  
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he did not think that DAS had done anything wrong. The investigator concluded 
that DAS had correctly advised that solicitors are regulated by their own professional body 
and so could not comment on the solicitors conduct but that it would refer the matter to be 
looked at and will raise with the solicitors if they do not think they have addressed Mr Es 
complaint properly. He thought DAS had tried to assist Mr E in reasonable way and did not 
think that there was any obligation for it to tell Mr E the outcome of any review. 
Mr E does not accept the Investigators assessment. He says that the Investigator has not 
understood that DAS was not happy hed raised a complaint of discrimination against the 
solicitors it appointed; DAS wanted all the evidence about this from him; DAS voluntarily 
investigated the allegations and he - the victim of the discrimination - has still not heard the 
outcome of that. He assisted with DASs investigation and it is distressing not to know the 
outcome. Mr E also says that while he accepts that DAS did not have to investigate 
allegations of discrimination by panel solicitors, DAS voluntarily decided to investigate his 
complaint about this and so he should now the outcome of that investigation. Mr E also 
wanted it noted that he was not expecting a response from DAS customer relations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We expect legal expenses insurers to take care to appoint solicitors that are suitably 
qualified and experienced to deal with the legal case in question, however, it has no duty to 
oversee how they run the case and it isnt responsible for any action or omission on the 
solicitors part. Solicitors are independent professionals, subject to their own regulation. This 
is the case whether the solicitor is on the insurers panel of preferred solicitors or not. 
In addition, this service has no jurisdiction over solicitors. I have no power therefore to make 
any finding about whether they should have made the adjustment Mr E asked for or not. As 
he has already been advised, Mr E would need to raise any issues he has about the quality 
of their legal representation, and any allegation of discrimination, directly with the panel firm 
(which he has done) and thereafter the SRA.Mr E wanted a different casehandler to deal with his case and said this would be a 
reasonable adjustment, due to his disability. DAS would have no power to require the panel 
solicitors to change the way it saw fit to deal with the legal claim. It would be for the solicitors 
to decide what was necessary and appropriate and if it decided this was not warranted 
(whether that decision was discriminatory or not) DAS  nor I  have the power to require the 
solicitors to do anything different.  
It also means DAS has not power or obligation to formally investigate whether Mr E had 
been discriminated against. And, even if he had proven that it was, DAS is not responsible to 
investigate that or to take any action about it. Having said that, I would expect DAS to 
contact a panel solicitor if a policyholder raises an issue about their conduct and make sure 
the solicitors had addressed it to try and assist the solicitor and the policyholder resolve any 
issue. This is what DAS has done in this case. It offered an alternative panel firm, it made 
enquiries about counsels opinion and checked that the solicitors had responded 
appropriately to Mr Es complaint. I think these were all reasonable steps to take. DAS did 
say it would look into his complaint and would ask the Relationship Partner to consider if 
they were satisfied that the panel solicitors had responded appropriately but there was no 
obligation to carry out a formal investigation and report any findings to Mr E. And I think it 
made clear that it could not comment on the solicitors conduct. DAS also had no obligation 
to make a legal claim for discrimination against them on Mr Es behalf. 
Mr E told the Investigator he wanted it noted that he was not expecting a response from the 
customer services adviser when he complained. I am not sure what he means by this. I think 
he may mean he was not expecting DAS to refer the matter to its Relationship Partner but 
having done so, it should update him. For the reasons given above, I do not agree. I do not 
think there was anything wrong with the response from DAS. 
Having considered everything provided to me, I do not therefore consider that DAS has done 
anything wrong in relation to Mr Es complaint about the panel solicitors and I do not think it 
needs to do anything more here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman