DRN-4214109
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs B was provided with a £11,000 loan by HSBC. The loan was repayable 
over 60 months with monthly repayments of around £273. Mrs B says that she has banked 
with HSBC for many years and so it had access to all of her credit information. She said had 
adequate checks taken place HSBC would have seen the loan shouldnt have been provided 
given she was earning £1,250 a month.
HSBC said that prior to lending it conducts creditworthiness and affordability checks. It said 
its checks use information captured from the application form, existing accounts, and 
external data from credit reference agencies. It said that based on these checks the loan 
appeared affordable for Mrs B.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. While he thought the checks carried out were 
proportionate he said the results showed that the repayments accounted for a significant 
amount of Mrs Bs income and that her bank statements showed she was paying a 
significant amount of her income towards her credit commitments. He said noting the 
fluctuation in Mrs Bs income and the monthly cost of the loan and its term he thought it likely 
Mrs B would have difficulty in sustaining her repayments.
HSBC didnt agree with our investigators view. It said its checks included a credit check 
which showed no concerns and no recent adverse data being recorded. It said Mrs Bs 
indebtedness score was well within its policy thresholds. It said it verified Mrs Bs stated 
income by review of the credit turnover on her bank account. Expenses were modelled using 
third-party data and her credit commitments based on the credit reference agency data. It 
said this left Mrs B with disposable monthly income of £372 which was enough to afford the 
loan repayments of £273.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings were as set out below:
Before providing the loan, HSBC has explained that it carried out creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. It has noted the information it uses in these. HSBC has said it verified 
Mrs Bs stated income through her bank statements and I find this reasonable. And having 
looked at Mrs Bs bank statements I can see she received a monthly salary as well as child 
benefit. Her monthly income did vary with her September income being £926 and her 
October income being £1,144. Her average monthly income from her salary and benefits 
was just over £1,100. However, given the variation I think it reasonable that an additional 
buffer would have been applied to the calculation to allow for months when Mrs B had a 
lower income amount.
Based on Mrs Bs average monthly income the loan repayments account for almost 25% of 
her monthly income. This is a substantial amount and I note that Mrs B also had other 
existing credit commitments which HSBC noted as being around £202 a month. This would 
mean her credit commitments including the loan repayments would account for over 40% of 
her income. While I do not think this necessarily means the lending shouldnt have been 
provided, I think that it meant that HSBC needed to get a full understanding of Mrs Bs 
financial situation before lending.
While I can see that estimates were used for Mrs Bs expenses, given my comments above 
and noting that HSBC had access to Mrs Bs bank accounts I think it should have crossed 
checked any expenditure estimates with her actual expenses to ensure the lending was 
affordable. Having done this, it shows that Mrs B was paying for utilities and other household 
costs, and she has explained that her partner was paying the rent and council tax. The costs 
Mrs B was paying averaged around £150 a month. Additional to this she was paying for food 
and for her child. Adding the credit commitments identified by HSBCs credit checks of £202 
to Mrs Bs other costs doesnt show that the loan repayments were unaffordable.
Therefore, while I find that further checks were required in this case, I do not find that had 
these happened the agreement would have been seen to be unaffordable.
Mrs B didnt agree with my provisional decision and provided further evidence to support her 
case of the lending being unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, the 
total cost of the credit and what it knew about the consumer at the time of application.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think that given the loan repayments accounted for 
around 25% of Mrs Bs income and that she also had other existing credit commitments at 
the time, further checks should have been carried out to get a clear understanding of Mrs Bs 
financial circumstances. I looked at Mrs Bs bank statements for the months leading up to 
her application and I didnt think these suggested that further checks would have shown the 
loan to have been unaffordable.
Mrs B has provided further information in response to my provisional decision. She says that 
she was needing to spend more than average on food and clothing for health reasons and 
that she was spending on her credit cards for food and other basic costs. I can confirm that 
my assessment took into account the payments Mrs B was making for her credit cards as 
well as her payments for other utilities and living costs and I do not find these suggested the 
loan repayments were unaffordable. I have considered the additional information Mrs B has 
provided which gives monthly costs for food, utilities, insurance and communications. But 
taking this into account and what would likely have been identified through further checks I 
do not find that I can say that HSBC should have considered this lending as unaffordable. I am sorry to hear of the health issues Mrs B is experiencing and I understand this isnt the 
outcome she wants, but in this case, I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman