DRN-3666847
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about an early repayment charge (ERC) Santander UK Plc applied when 
he repaid his mortgage with it in 2020. He is unhappy that he was charged the ERC given 
that he had wanted to take out a new mortgage with Santander, port an existing interest rate 
product, and thereby avoid the ERC, but Santander had turned down his application. Mr G is 
also unhappy about the amount of the ERC charged, compared with the amount of 
contractual monthly payments that would have been paid over the remaining term of the 
interest rate product. 
What happened
Mr G sought advice from an independent mortgage broker and took out a repayment 
mortgage with Santander in the Autumn of 2019. Attached to the mortgage was a fixed 
interest rate product with a term to 2 October 2021. If the mortgage was repaid in full or part 
before the end of the product term, an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid was payable. 
In November 2020 Mr G started the process of applying for a new mortgage with Santander 
and porting the interest rate product to the new mortgage. The new mortgage application 
was for the same amount as the existing mortgage. On 16 November 2020 Santander asked 
Mr G to provide some supporting evidence, including some relating to another mortgage he 
was a party to. Mr G provided the information the following day. Santander considered the 
information and called Mr G on 19 November 2020 to explain that its initial assessment had 
established, taking into account the potential for Mr G having to pay the second mortgage, 
the new mortgage was unaffordable. As such, the application couldnt progress. 
The mortgage was repaid in early March 2021 and Mr G paid an ERC of slightly under 
£4,700. Mr G complained to Santander about it applying the ERC in the circumstances. 
Santander responded to the complaint on 31 March 2021. It confirmed that the cost the 
second mortgage Mr G was named on had correctly been taken into consideration when 
affordability of the proposed application had been looked into. As that assessment hadnt 
established the new mortgage was affordable in the circumstances, hed correctly been told 
an application couldnt be made. The complaint was rejected.
Mr G wasnt happy with Santanders response and he referred the complaint to this service. 
He said that he could understand having to pay the ERC if it had been his choice to take a 
mortgage elsewhere, but it hadnt been and so applying the charge was unfair. Mr G also 
said that in addition to having had to pay the ERC, the additional borrowing with the new 
lender to cover that amount, put the loan-to-value on the new mortgage in a higher category 
and affected the interest rate he was able to obtain. He said that he considered himself to be 
a guarantor on the mortgage and pointed out that it hadnt been a problem when hed taken 
the mortgage with Santander in 2019, but was the following year. As such, he believed that 
Santander should have given him a mortgage and, it was totally unacceptable and unfair of 
it to have charged the ERC in full. Mr G asked that we make Santander repay the ERC.
One of our investigators considered Mr Gs complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He didnt think it was unreasonable that Santander had taken into consideration the 
cost of the second mortgage Mr G was a party to. If that then meant the mortgage was 
outside of its lending criteria  its appetite for risk  it wasnt inappropriate or unfair for it to 
have declined the application. In addition, he was satisfied that the ERC had been clearly set 
out and so Mr G would have been aware that he needed to pay it when he started the 
process and when he decided to go ahead with the property purchase, having been declined 
for the new mortgage with Santander. 
Mr G didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that he accepted that it was 
Santanders prerogative to set rules for approving applications, but he didnt agree that it 
should be the borrower who suffers the financial burden if Santander changes those rules. 
He reiterated that the relatives mortgage he was a party to had existed at the time his broker 
had helped him apply for the original mortgage with Santander. He was very unhappy that 
the assessment had been done differently, and a mortgage he was just guarantor on was 
being treated differently. He said that he had only had to pay an ERC because Santander 
had forced him to. In addition, if an ERC had to be paid, it should be based on the 
percentage of paid/unpaid monthly instalments. As he had paid 75% of the monthly 
payments, Mr G said that Santander should only charge him 25% of the ERC. He also said 
that Santander had refused to allow him to continue to pay the monthly payments to the end 
of the product term. Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Due to Mr Gs concerns about the ERC being disproportionate, we requested some further 
information from Santander. Another of our investigators considered this aspect of the 
complaint. He explained the concepts behind charging an ERC and confirmed that he was 
satisfied that the ERC charged was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs to Santander for 
early repayment of a mortgage. 
Mr G didnt accept what the second investigator said. He reiterated that the main aspect of 
the complaint was that Santander had forced him to leave it, rather than port the interest rate 
product the ERC was linked to, to a new mortgage. The investigator referred Mr G back to 
the first investigators findings about the application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first explain that an applicant is not entitled to borrow money from a lender. In the 
situation Mr G found himself in, he always had to apply for a new mortgage, with a new 
assessment of his circumstances, based on the lending policy/criteria in place at that time. 
The fact that a previous application was accepted doesnt give any guarantees that a later 
application will be, even if the borrowers circumstances havent changed significantly.
As such, when Mr G made his application in November 2020, there was no guarantee that it 
would be accepted. At that time, Santander picked up from his credit file that he was named 
on a second mortgage. Hes confirmed this was a relatives mortgage and he would never be 
responsible for making payments under the contract. As our investigator explained, in the 
event that Mr Gs relative was unable to make the payments to the mortgage, as a joint 
accountholder, he would be responsible for making those payments. Even if Mr G thought 
there was no possibility he would ever have to take responsibility for paying the mortgage, 
that doesnt mean that Santander acted unreasonably in taking that possible cost into 
account. Indeed, it is required by the regulator to ensure that it is lending responsibly, and 
that includes ensuring the mortgage was affordable in all the circumstances. While I note that Mr G has said that if his relative had been unable to pay the mortgage, the 
property would have been sold, that is not always a quick process. In the meantime, Mr G 
would be expected to pay the monthly mortgage payments. In light of this, I am satisfied that 
Santander didnt treat Mr G unfairly or that it acted unreasonably when it completed its 
affordability assessment. As that assessment found that, based on its lending policy at that 
time, the new mortgage being applied for wasnt affordable, I cant find it was wrong to 
decline to allow the application to progress further. 
The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr G before the 
mortgage was advanced. He accepted that offer and the ERC that was associated with it. So 
when Mr G paid off his mortgage, it was not unreasonable for Santander to charge the ERC 
that he had accepted as part of the contract he had entered into.
As for Mr Gs concern that the amount of the ERC was disproportionate, I would explain that 
in order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with 
loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that 
money. When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money 
for, it has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included 
in those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to 
them of consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage 
basis, but is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a 
similar type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on 
a lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future 
conditions. The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the 
regulators requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the 
ERC will be and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr G considers the ERC is disproportionate because it was more than the amount of interest 
that would have been paid to Santander over the remaining term of the interest rate product. 
As I have explained above there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC 
is calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss 
suffered by Santander if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I have seen the 
evidence of the calculations, although it cant be made publicly available as its commercially 
sensitive and confidential, and I am satisfied the amount charged in this case was a 
reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should be refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
21 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman