DRN-3705902
The complaint and what happened
Mr M complains, on behalf of C, that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse payments he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise. This decision only concerns Cs losses. Mr Ms personal losses 
will be dealt with separately. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In February 2022, Mr M received a call from someone purporting to be Monzo, they 
knew details of the accounts held, including there was more than one of them, name, 
address etc. He was asked if some transactions had been made by him, which he 
confirmed he didnt recognise. He was asked to confirm the long card number of his 
personal card, and the last eight digits of the business card. He was then told to 
delete the app, redownload it and log in again. He was also told that hed receive a 
notification about Apple Pay, which hed need to accept. The text confirming the 
addition of Apple Pay appeared in his usual text line from Monzo. 
Mr M was told an email and a new card would be sent. But that didnt happen. Rather 
£10,000 was spent from Cs business account with various retail outlets using Apple 
Pay. Mr M reported the matter to Monzo as he didnt make or otherwise authorise the 
transactions, but it declined to refund them as it said he didnt keep the security 
credentials safe and didnt do enough to verify the caller.  
Our investigator upheld the complaint and asked for a full refund and interest  she 
didnt think Mr M had failed with gross negligence or intent to keep the security 
credentials safe. 
Monzo asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M (or C) isnt liable 
for payments he didnt authorise or consent to, unless he failed with gross negligence 
or intent to comply with the terms of the account and keep personalised security 
details safe. 
Monzo accepts that Mr M, on behalf of C, didnt carry out or otherwise authorise or 
consent to the transactions in question. Under the PSRs, the transactions are 
therefore considered unauthorised. 
I dont find Mr M failed with intent to keep the security details safe. He followed the 
instructions given on the understanding he was preventing unauthorised transactions 
from Cs account. 
I also dont find Mr M failed with gross negligence. He believed he was speaking with 
his bank, and I understand why. The caller knew details about Cs and Mr Ms 
accounts and address information. And when he was told to expect an Apple Pay 
notification, not only did that happen, but confirmation also appeared in the text line 
of other genuine texts from Monzo. 
I accept Mr M provided card information when perhaps he ought not to. And that he 
evidently went through at least some of the steps that enabled Apple Pay to be set 
up on another device. But I dont think that means he seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk, and therefore failed with gross negligence. 
Mr M believed the steps he took were to stop unauthorised transactions. He 
questioned the caller when he couldnt see the attempted transactions on his banking 
app. I find the explanation given by the caller to be entirely plausible  that the 
transactions had been spotted as potentially fraudulent and stopped before reaching 
the account. Im not persuaded Mr M ought to have realised that providing the long 
card number could enable someone else to make transactions from Cs account. I 
consider few lay people would know that the initial eight digits on a long card number 
represent the banking institution the account is held with; so by confirming the final 
eight digits of the business card number, Mr M was in effect providing the caller with 
the long card number in its entirety. Furthermore, Im not persuaded that by 
completing the Apple Pay steps Mr M realised he was allowing it to be set up on 
another device  there is nothing within the screen shots provided, or the text 
confirmation, that tell him that. So whilst the screen information may have told the 
customer to contact Monzo if it wasnt them setting up Apple Pay, as he was told to 
expect this as part of the process to prevent transactions, there would have been no 
reason for him to contact the bank about that.    
Overall, I can see how Mr M, on behalf of C, was tricked into believing the steps he 
took were to prevent fraud on the account. I think a lot of people would have been 
tricked into doing the same, or something similar. I dont find his actions fell so far 
below what a reasonable person would have done, that it amounts to gross 
negligence. So I conclude neither Mr M, nor C, are liable for the transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to reimburse £10,000 to C, along with 8% simple interest per year on that sum, from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman