DRN-4211256
The complaint
Mrs S complains that QIC Europe Ltd acted unfairly when paying her claim for vets fees 
under her horse insurance policy.
My references to QIC include its agent.
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs S said her horse became bad tempered when being tacked up. Shortly 
after this on 10 November 2021 Mrs Ss horse received vet treatment having laid down and 
been off her feed. In December 2021 Mrs Ss horse became lame.
Following investigations, Mrs Ss vet diagnosed the horse with three conditions: hock 
osteoarthritis, equine gastric ulcer syndrome (EGUS) and kissing spines. Mrs S made a 
claim to QIC for the vets fees.
QIC paid the claim as one claimable incident under its policy terms up to the £3,500 
incident limit. This did not cover the vets fees in full, so Mrs S had to pay the balance 
herself. QIC said it did not judge a claimable incident on each separately diagnosed 
condition but rather as the onset of symptoms.
Mrs S did not think QICs claim decision was fair. Her horse had first shown symptoms of 
EGUS in October and November 2021. The horse was not lame at this time, and was still 
being ridden. It was not until December 2021 that the horse became lame. QIC asked an 
independent vet on its panel to review the claim.
QICs vet discussed the horses treatment with Mrs Ss vet and reviewed the clinical records. 
He thought it more likely that the three conditions formed part of the same claimable 
incident. Mrs S did not agree. She provided supporting comments from her vet who had 
seen and treated her horse. QICs vet reviewed the claim again but said Mrs Ss vets 
comments did not change his view. So QIC maintained its claim decision.
Unhappy with the outcome Mrs S came to us. Our Investigator looked into the complaint but 
did not uphold it. He thought the evidence provided by QICs vet was more persuasive than 
Mrs Ss vet. As such, he considered QIC had made a fair decision on the claim.
Mrs S did not agree with the Investigators findings. She said, in summary:
It is the onset of symptoms that is determinative rather than when the horse is seen 
by a vet. The first symptoms of EGUS had been in October 2021, when her horse 
became bad tempered when being tacked up.
QICs vet had not, in her view, taken into account that her horse was still being ridden 
in October and November 2021, which she said did not support that her horse had 
had back pain at that time. Even when the EGUS had been successfully treated her 
horses lameness did not resolve.
She referred to the way incident is defined both in the dictionary and in legal cases.
The complaint came to me for review. I asked Mrs S whether she had mentioned that her 
horse had been bad tempered on tacking up during the November 2021 vets visit.
Mrs S responded to say that while she was struggling to recall the day of the vets visit, she 
could see from her calendar that she was away for a family birthday. Her horse is in a livery 
yard and she recalls that the yard contacted her to say her horse was lying down and was 
not eating  and to seek her authority to call the vet. She said that yard suspected her horse 
had colic and believed the situation needed urgent assessment by a vet. She added that she 
considers it extremely unlikely that the vet was told about the problems she was 
experiencing when tacking her horse up as the yard personnel would not have known that 
information.
In response to my question about the treating vet, Mrs S couldnt confirm which vet had seen 
her horse in November 2021 (as she was not there), but the horses clinical record showed a 
junior vet had been noted as being called out on 10 November 2021. Mrs S said that it was 
the senior vet who had seen her horse in December 2021.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision explaining my reasons for not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. 
I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why and in doing so 
I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.
The cover provided by QIC is set out in its policy terms and conditions, which forms part of 
the insurance contract together with the policy schedule. Mrs Ss policy schedule says that 
the incident limit is £3,500.
The policy terms and conditions define the word incident as follows:
A claimable incident under this policy is not judged on each separately diagnosed 
condition but is considered to be an onset of symptoms. If a horse presents with a 
symptom or set of symptoms, any diagnoses which arise out of that investigation, or 
subsequent related investigations, are considered together to be one claimable 
incident under the policy.
I have read and thought about Mrs Ss comments about the way the word incident is 
defined both in the dictionary and in the legal cases to which she refers. But importantly the 
QIC policy defines the word incident and so I will use that definition when deciding whether 
QIC has made a fair decision to limit Mrs Ss claim to £3,500 under its policy terms.
It is not in dispute that Mrs Ss horse was diagnosed with three separate conditions. QIC has 
treated them as one incident, but Mrs S considers that the symptoms occurred at different 
times and were caused by different conditions. She points out she noticed her horses 
symptoms of being bad tempered/fidgety/nowty when being tacked up/girthed at the end of 
October 2021.
Mrs Ss vet said on the claim form that the horses symptoms had been lameness, back 
pain and girthiness. This is reflected in the vets clinical record of 31 December 2021 when 
the vet noted the horse was: reported to be lame a couple of weeks - have rested, no real 
sign of improvement - appears to be right hind. reluctant to move forward on the right rein. tenderness in thoracic spine on palpitation. reported to be sore on girthing up  o wondering 
about ulcers, to come in for work up and gastroscopy.
There is no mention of girthiness in the clinical record before 31 December 2021. I have 
asked Mrs S about this and she has explained she was not present at the earlier vets 
appointment of 10 November 2021. And she correctly points out that the policy does not 
require the symptoms to have been noted by a vet.
But I dont consider the horses symptoms of bad temperedness and girthiness were 
investigated until December 2021. So, even though Mrs S had noticed the symptoms earlier 
I think it was fair for QIC to say the horse had presented with a set of symptoms in 
December 2021, which were then investigated and resulted in three separate diagnoses.
It is accepted by both Mrs Ss vet and QICs vet that the November 2021 symptoms 
appeared to be of colic. The treating vet recorded that: O [Owner] reports rode this morning, 
then came back in off hay and lay down, been off feed since and seems dull. The notes say 
that the horse had positive gut sounds on both sides, had passed some droppings and the 
vet prescribed anti-spasmodic and pain relief medication.
But there is a difference of professional opinion as to whether the November 2021 symptoms 
of colic were symptoms of the EGUS that was diagnosed in early 2022 following a 
gastroscopy procedure.
QICs vet said that the symptoms recorded in the clinical record were not related to the later 
December 2021 symptoms of EGUS and lameness. In summary, he gave the following 
reasons:
The November 2021 entry does not record EGUS as a clinical consideration. There 
are several possible causes for the symptoms displayed.
It is not possible to state with certainty that the November 2021 episode is related to 
the December 2021 episode and subsequent presentations.
The December 2021 clinical history reports an investigation into the three conditions 
taking place concurrently.
Mrs S had said that the horse was displaying signs of being bad tempered/fidgety 
when being tacked up & girthed. This can be a symptom of EGUS but in his opinion 
can also be consistent with a horse with back pain.
He had discussed with Mrs Ss vet that the EGUS had resolved but the 
musculoskeletal pain had persisted. He thought it was likely that the EGUS was 
exacerbated by the back and hock pain. Mrs Ss vet did not agree the association 
was correct in this case. But they both agreed that it was very difficult to determine 
the cause of EGUS in a horse as there are many potential causative factors.
Mrs Ss vet responded to say, in summary: 
The horse was examined in December 2021 for poor performance under saddle and 
discomfort when being tacked up. Further clinical work revealed EGUS, discomfort in 
the spine and in the right hind. Following treatment, the EGUS resolved but the 
lameness persisted without any further exacerbation or re-occurrence of EGUS and 
the horse continued to be asymptomatic for EGUS.
In November 2021, the horse was examined for colic, which can be a symptom of 
EGUS. No lameness or poor performance had been reported at that time which 
inferred that it was possible that EGUS might have preceded any lameness or back 
discomfort.
Based on this information as the examining and treating veterinarian in this case, I 
am of the opinion that the EGUS and the lameness/back pain are separate conditions.
QICs vet did not think Mrs Ss vet had provided any new or conclusive evidence to warrant 
changing his position. He said: In my opinion, there are many possible causes of colic and I 
do not believe that it is possible to state definitively that the November 2021 colic was 
caused by EGUS. The clinical history for that examination makes no reference to EGUS as a 
possible cause. In my experience, colic would be an infrequent clinical sign of EGUS and 
would more likely be associated with a low-grade recurrent colic rather than a single 
episode.
I will generally apply more weight to the evidence of the vet who has seen, examined and 
treated the horse. In this case, I note a different, more senior vet treated the horse in 
December 2021, although she and the vet who treated the horse in November 2021 were 
from the same veterinary practice.
Having considered the expert opinions of both vets I find that in this case I am persuaded by 
QICs vets evidence for the following reasons:
QICs vet has said that the horse showing signs of being bad tempered/fidgety when being 
tacked up & girthed can be a symptom of EGUS but in his professional opinion can also be 
consistent with a horse with back pain.
Mrs Ss vet had said that there was no lameness or poor performance reported in November 
2021. When giving her opinion about there being no association between the colic and the 
back/hock pain Mrs Ss vet did not refer to the symptoms Mrs S had noted of her horse 
having been bad tempered when being tacked up since October 2021.
But QICs vets had taken into account the symptoms Mrs S had noted since October 2021. 
And his opinion was that the symptoms could be consistent with a horse with back pain.
Mrs S said that QICs vets opinion was incorrect because she was still riding her horse in 
October and November 2021. The horse did not become lame until December 2021. But 
QICs vets opinion was that the horses back pain could also be consistent with the earlier 
symptoms of she had reported. And I think the symptoms of lameness, back pain and 
girthiness were investigated at the same time.
QICs vet says that a single episode of colic is unlikely to be suggestive of EGUS, for which 
symptoms are recurrent low-grade episodes of colic. So, while the November 2021 episode 
of colic could have been a symptom of EGUS, based on the expert evidence I think it is 
more likely than not, on balance, that it was not a symptom.
Mrs Ss vet says that EGUS and the back/hock pain are separate conditions and that the 
lameness symptoms persisted after the EGUS was treated. But under QICs policy it is the 
onset and presentation of symptoms that is the determining factor. Having carefully taken 
into account all the submissions, I think that the horse presented with symptoms of the three
diagnosed conditions and it was fair for QIC to treat the investigation and treatment of those 
conditions as one claimable incident, under its policy terms.
Responses to my provisional decision
QIC responded to say that it had nothing further to add. 
Mrs S responded to say that she did not agree with my provisional decision. In summary, 
she said:She is concerned about my approach and the weight I have applied to QICs expert 
evidence. QICs vet has not met, examined or treated her horse and cannot give 
direct evidence as to the onset of symptoms. QICs vet does not refer at any point to 
her horses October 2021 symptoms.
I have not applied the correct test when saying that her horse first presented with 
symptoms in December 2021, even though she had noted symptoms in October 
2021. The policy does not define Incident with reference to the date the symptoms 
were investigated, but rather as the onset of symptoms  being when the horse first 
displays the symptoms. In that context, it does not matter whether this is to a specific 
individual (such as a vet) nor whether the symptoms were investigated at that time. 
She refers to the discussion about whether the November 2021 symptoms were of 
colic or EGUS. QICs vet says, on balance, that it was the former, but that he cannot 
state with any certainty that the November 2021 episode is related to the December 
2021 presentation. He also accepts that the low grade colic, with which her horse 
was diagnosed in November 2021, is a sign of EGUS.
QICs vet says that the symptoms she observed in October 2021 can be symptoms 
of EGUS but are also consistent with back pain. But he does not conclude, and in her 
view cannot conclude, that her horse did not have any symptoms in October 2021. If 
those symptoms were consistent with EGUS or back pain, they were the onset of 
symptoms (as defined by the policy) for one of the three conditions her horse was 
subsequently diagnosed with. 
Her position is that:
1. The nature of the symptoms displayed by her horse in October 2021 (the 
girthiness and bad temperedness when being tacked up). 
2. The episode in November 2021 was a sign of EGUS.
3. The continuation of her horses bad temper and girthiness which she brought 
to the vets attention when she first saw her in December 2021; and 
4. The fact that her horse was diagnosed with Grade 3 EGUS in December 
2021, that is two months later, is consistent with those symptoms being due 
to her horse suffering from EGUS. 
It is not dispute that her horse did not display symptoms of lameness which 
precipitated her calling the vet in December 2021.
I have placed a good deal of significance to the fact her horse was not diagnosed 
with EGUS when seen by the vet in November 2021. But she was not present at the 
yard that day. Suspecting her horse had colic (which can be fatal and take hold very 
quickly) the staff at the yard contacted her for authority to call the vet. But I might not 
have appreciated that his would have been treated as an emergency by the vet (and 
yard staff) in her absence, with the focus to address the immediate issue. She was 
not present so she does not know whether the junior vet would have considered the 
possibility that her horse had EGUS. But this seems doubtful, given the vet was 
unlikely to have been aware of her horses symptoms when being tacked up and the 
pressing concern was to ensure that her horses situation was not critical.
As such, Mrs S questions my provisional determination that it was fair for QIC to treat 
all of her horses symptoms as one claimable incident under the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read and considered all the evidence my decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. I will explain my reasons focusing on Mrs Ss response to my provisional 
decision. For ease, I will repeat how the policy defines an incident:
A claimable incident under this policy is not judged on each separately diagnosed 
condition but is considered to be an onset of symptoms. If a horse presents with a 
symptom or set of symptoms, any diagnoses which arise out of that investigation, or 
subsequent related investigations, are considered together to be one claimable 
incident under the policy.
Having reviewed all the evidence again, I note Mrs Ss point about the onset of symptoms as 
being October 2021, when she noticed her horses girthiness and bad temperedness when 
being tacked up. As I understand it, her point is that her horse presented with symptoms at 
that time; and that is the case even if the presentation was to Mrs S rather than a vet. 
But the policy also refers to the investigation of the symptom or set of symptoms, given that 
any diagnoses which arise out of that investigation, or subsequent related investigations, are 
considered together to be one claimable incident under the policy. So I consider that I can 
fairly take into account the investigation of those symptoms in reaching my decision about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I dont consider that the horses symptoms of girthiness, bad temperedness and lameness 
were investigated until December 2021. The investigations resulted in three separate 
diagnoses and, in my opinion, it was fair for QIC to treat those three separate diagnoses as 
one claimable incident under the policy.
I have taken into account that QICs vet did not examine or treat Mrs Ss horse before giving 
his expert opinion. Mrs Ss vet (the more senior vet in the practice) who did examine and 
treat the horse said she thought it was more likely than not that the colic for which the horse 
was treated in November 2021 was a sign of EGUS. 
But I think QICs vets opinion that the November 2021 episode of colic was more likely to be 
an isolated episode of colic is more persuasive here, because he said that EGUS is usually 
associated with frequent bouts of low grade colic rather than a single incident. 
I have carefully considered Mrs Ss senior vets opinion. But she did not examine the horse 
in November 2021 and did not refer to the earlier symptoms Mrs S had mentioned of bad 
temperedness and girthiness. I find QICs vets opinion more persuasive, given that he did 
give his opinion about these symptoms. He said that they could be suggestive of back pain.
Mrs S says that QICs vet had not referred to the October 2021 symptoms, but I dont agree. 
QIC had sent Mrs Ss claim form to QICs vet together with the clinical notes. She had said 
on the claim form that from the end of October 2021 her horse had been nowty when being 
girthed with symptoms of bad tempered & fidgety when being tacked-up. QICs vet 
referred to Mrs Ss horse being bad tempered/fidgety when being tacked up & girthed. So 
while I have noted Mrs Ss comment about this, I consider that QICs vet was aware of these 
earlier symptoms and gave his opinion about them in his report. 
I have noted Mrs Ss comments about why the junior vet would not have considered EGUS 
at the time she treated Mrs Ss horse in November 2021. She has said that QICs vet 
referred to her horses low grade colic. But I dont think QICs vet thought that Mrs Ss 
horse had suffered with low grade colic; rather he thought the horse had suffered a single 
episode. He said: In my experience, colic would be an infrequent clinical sign of EGUS and 
would more likely be associated with a low-grade recurrent colic rather than a single 
episode.
It follows that I remain of the view that the weight of evidence is in QICs favour. I think QIC fairly treated the claim as one claimable incident under its policy terms. As such, I do not 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons that I have set out both in my provisional decision and above, my final 
decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman