DRN-3110293
The complaint
Mr K complains that PCF Bank Limited misadvised him and in doing so caused him financial 
loss.
What happened
The facts are not in dispute. In summary Mr K opened a 100-day notice account in August 
2019. The account was initially funded with £50,000, and in early December 2019 Mr K 
added a further £35,000. In March 2020 Mr K asked to withdraw the full £85,000 and was 
told his request would be processed in line with the 100-day notice. He was unhappy with 
this as he said hed been led to believe during a telephone call with a PCF Bank employee In 
December 2019 that the account was instant access.
PCF Bank investigated his complaint and said thered been a misunderstanding
between Mr K and one of PCF Banks call handlers. In recognition of this they
offered to let Mr K have instant access to the funds a fortnight later. But Mr K no longer 
needed the funds, so they were left in the account.
Unhappy with the service received Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator was satisfied that there had been a misunderstanding but she didnt think that 
Mr K had lost out financially because of this. Nevertheless she thought that Mr K had needed 
to make alternative arrangements based on this misunderstanding and this would have been 
stressful and frustrating. For this she recommended that PCF Bank pay Mr K £150 in 
compensation. PCF agreed. Mr K accepted this sum in compensation but maintained that he 
had lost out financially and that he should be recompensed for this too.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and carefully considered the further representations made, I am not 
awarding further compensation. I will explain why. 
There is no available recording of the phone call from which Mr K understood that his 
account was instant access. However Ive seen notes of the recording and the information 
given to Mr K. I find that the call handler and Mr K were speaking at cross purposes. The 
information given about maturity dates was correct  there was no maturity date - but Mr K 
was referring to the notice period and that still applied. PCF Bank subsequently agreed to 
release the funds but by this time Mr K had made alternative arrangements as he needed 
the cash for a house purchase that month and couldnt wait for the notice period to expire.
PCF Bank says that its call handler didnt realise that Mr K was forming an incorrect view of 
what he was told. This may be so, without hearing the call Im not able to reach a definite 
conclusion on this point. But PCF Bank accepts that when Mr K expressed surprise and 
asked why he wasnt told this before his assumption could have been corrected. I agree it 
would have been prudent to do so and to reiterate the correct position regarding the notice 
period. Accordingly Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for PCF Bank to pay Mr K 
compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused when he learned of the correct 
position. I find that £150 is merited.
I understand that Mr K feels strongly that he should also be compensated for any additional 
Ftax he will need to pay because he cashed in an ISA. He has proposed that he present 
evidence if the tax he pays on £85,000 each year until he cashes it in or passes away and 
that PCF Bank then reimburse that tax. 
However, Im not persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that there will be a future loss, taking 
into account Mr Ks tax bracket and any tax free savings allowance. But even if I was able to 
conclude there would be a tax implication, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and 
reasonable to require PCF Bank to make any further or future payments to Mr K. I say this 
because I dont find that the misunderstanding was caused by incorrect advice given. The 
error was a failure to recognise what Mr K had understood and to clarify the correct position. 
When the complaint was made PCF Bank acted expediently and offered access by the third 
week in March. I appreciate that Mr K had already sourced funds elsewhere, but Im 
satisfied that PCF Bank  acted reasonably in this regard. In all the circumstances Im 
satisfied that £150 is fair compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require PCF Bank Limited to pay Mr K 
£150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman