DRN-1623847
 
The complaint
Ms A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, blocked her debit card while 
she was abroad, leaving her without access to her money.
What happened
Ms A was travelling abroad and called Halifax to let it know this. Halifaxs adviser told her 
that they would put a note on her account.
But when she tried to withdraw cash at her destination, her card was blocked. She received 
a text message from Halifax asking her to confirm that her use of her card was genuine. 
However, she couldnt get a phone reception, and wasnt able to text Halifax back about this 
to unblock her card.
Ms A complained that Halifax had left her without access to cash for the duration of her trip, 
which had left her in a difficult, dangerous position. 
Halifax said that Ms A had been able to access her accounts online through the time she 
was abroad, and had done so to transfer money to another of her Halifax accounts. It said 
that there was a 24-hour emergency phone number of the back of her debit card, and it 
could also be contacted through online banking. Halifax said that it recommends to all 
customers that they should take more than one form of payment facility when travelling 
abroad. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that he didnt think it was unreasonable for Halifax to ask Ms A to contact it to verify her 
transaction, even though shed told it she was travelling abroad. He accepted that it was 
likely to have been more difficult for Ms A to contact Halifax but it had explained that this 
couldve been done over the phone, by internet banking or through a mobile banking app. 
The investigator thought that the text message Ms A had received indicated that she did 
have some phone signal, and he noted that shed used her account to make transfers by 
Faster Payment, which could only have been done online or by telephone banking. He said 
these were the same communication methods Ms A couldve used to unblock her card. 
Ms A didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that it was unfair as her life had been 
put at risk, and shed been treated inhumanely. She has evidence on her phone that she had 
no connection or signal during her entire time away. She was left with no means to buy food 
or pay for accommodation. She feels she followed the rules which shouldve ensured she 
had access to her money. She said the transactions on her account were pay from her 
employment and general transfers shed set up to happen independently of whether she was 
in the UK or not.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it will have been frustrating and worrying for Ms A to have had her debit 
card blocked while she was abroad, particularly as she recalls contacting Halifax to let it 
know that she was going away. 
Halifax has been unable to find a record of that call. But it has said that Ms A wouldve been 
given the same advice that appears on its website, which is that a customer doesnt have to 
tell Halifax when they are travelling abroad. The information says to check the expiry date of 
account card; take another form of payment; make sure contact details are up-to-date; and 
take a note of its number to call from overseas. 
But even if Halifax did have a note that Ms A would be using her card abroad, I dont think 
this necessarily means that it wouldnt have looked to verify that an attempt to use the card 
was genuine, if its systems highlighted this to be a potential concern. This security measure 
is taken to protect Ms As money, and I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to check 
that it was Ms A using her card in a way that she wanted in a foreign country. 
A block was placed on her card until Halifax could confirm that it was Ms A using it; and she 
received its text message asking her to contact it about this. 
I do appreciate that Ms A may not have had a reliable mobile phone signal while she was 
away. But there were other ways that she couldve contacted Halifax which wouldve meant 
the block placed on her card would be lifted so that she could use it again. Halifax has a 24-
hour emergency number to contact, which I understand is shown on the reverse of the card. 
Even if Ms A hadnt been able to use her mobile, then I think there wouldve public phones 
that she couldve used in such an emergency.
But Ms A could also have contacted Halifax to remove the block through her online banking 
or mobile banking app. And from Ms As account records, I can see that she was able to log 
into her online banking on two occasions on consecutive days just after her card was 
blocked. She did this to make three transfers from her account to another account she holds 
with Halifax. And these amounts were then transferred on from that account to another 
person. 
So although Ms A may have had difficulties with her mobile phone signal why she was away, 
this activity does show that she was able to make arrangements to transfer her money on 
through her accounts to someone else; and was logged into her online banking which she 
couldve used to let Halifax know that the cash withdrawal that caused her card to be 
blocked was genuine. 
Overall, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly or inappropriately in looking to confirm Ms As 
attempt to use her card was genuine. And, although I understand that having her card 
blocked wouldve been an inconvenience, I think there were communication methods 
available to Ms A which she couldve contacted Halifax so the block could be removed. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Cathy BovanOmbudsman