DRN-2351825
The complaint
Mr C complains that Funding Circle Ltd has unfairly introduced a transfer payment on his
crowdfunding account. He also complains that Funding Circle didnt make it clear that there
could be lengthy delays in him being able to access his funds.
What happened
Mr C opened a loan-based crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in November 2018.
His investments were held in an Innovative Financial ISA wrapper. Funding Circles platform
allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest payments. An
investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to borrow, and in
return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of Mr Cs complaint,
Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a way for investors
to access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors by way of a
secondary market.
In June 2019 Mr C decided he needed to access his fund held in his account, so he put
some of his loan parts up for sale on the secondary market. Mr C had previously sold some
loan parts and he said these sold almost immediately. So he was under the impression that
it wouldnt take long for these loan parts to sell. However, due to a rise in the number of loan
parts being added to the sales queue, it was taking far longer for his loan parts to sell. Mr C
complained to Funding Circle as he felt it was taking too long to sell his loan parts. He said
he was led to believe that there were reasonable provisions for access to funds, and while
this might not be next day access, he didnt expect that there would be a situation where he
might need to wait a year or more.
Mr C also raised a complaint about a new transfer payment Funding Circle was introducing
in December 2019, which would apply to loan parts he currently had for sale on the
secondary market. This 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale value of all loan parts
sold on the secondary market and acted as a discount to investors who bought the individual
loan parts. Mr C said he never agreed to this and so he felt it was unfair to apply it to loan
parts hed put up for sale prior to the transfer payment being introduced.
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In summary it said:
The ability and time taken to sell loan parts on the secondary market is not, and has 
never been, guaranteed. While the secondary market provides an option for those 
investors who wish to access their funds early, it has always taken care to explain 
that the time to sell is dependent on demand from other investors.
Its terms and conditions state that sale requests that are not successful within 120 
days will be delisted from the secondary market. However, it paused this delisting 
process while it conducted its secondary market review.
It acknowledged that the sales queue had increased, and that the 1.25% transfer 
payment was introduced to help reduce it.
It clarified that this isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and instead is a payment 
made to the buyers of the loan parts.
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans.
So Mr C could access his funds whilst avoiding paying this transfer fee if he switched 
off his lending facility and withdrew his monthly repayments on his loan parts.
Its confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of 
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would begin to receive some funds back faster and more regularly.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes 
without Mr Cs consent but these changes were communicated clearly with fair notice 
given.
Mr C didnt accept this and so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
Funding Circles terms and conditions explain that, If you want to have access to any 
funds that have already been lent, you will need to transfer your Loan Parts by selling 
them to other Investors.
The investor guide clarifies that loan parts can be sold but that its subject to demand 
from other investors and the terms and conditions explain that there is no guarantee 
on the length of time this process may take.
The terms and conditions allow Funding Circle to make amendments and it had given 
enough notice to Mr C of the changes.
There was no guarantee that Mr C would have sold all his loan parts if the changes 
werent made.
Mr C had the option to take the loan parts out of the sales queue if he wasnt happy 
with the changes.
Ultimately, Mr C was complaining about the length of time it was taking to sell his 
loan parts and so this new transfer payment could act as incentive for investors to 
buy his loan parts sooner.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion and provided the following comments:
Funding Circle made no mention at the time of him opening the account that funds 
could be stuck for multiple years.
Funding Circle gave no warnings about any risks that the secondary market prices 
might incur additional fees, neither did the terms and conditions make reference to 
any right to create new fees and to apply these retrospectively.
My provisional findings
Because Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I sent Mr C and 
Funding Circle my provisional decision on 22 October 2020. I explained why I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
I understand that Mr C feels quite strongly that the transfer payment Funding Circle has
introduced is a fee, which is to his detriment when it comes to selling his loan parts on the
secondary market. However, I dont agree that the transfer payment is a fee. Instead Id
consider it to be a repricing instrument applied to loans which are sold on the secondary
market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed that they dont receive any money from
the transfer payment and rather its paid directly to investors who purchase the individual
loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount incentive to these buyers.
Therefore, I think there are two potential questions that I need to consider in order to fairlyand reasonably determine Mr Cs complaint:
Did Funding Circle make it clear to Mr C that selling his loan parts on the secondary 
market was not guaranteed?
Was it fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mr Cs loan parts on the secondary market?
Before Im able to answer these questions, Ive considered the relevant regulatory and legal
framework.
the regulatory and legal framework
Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The
relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the
FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are PRIN 2.1.1R (2) which says:
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Funding Circle is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are COBS 2.1.1R (1)
which says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of
its client.
And COBS 4.2.1R (1) which says:
A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not
misleading.
Ive also considered these relevant rules and regulations when reaching my provisional
decision.
Did Funding Circle make it clear to Mr C that selling his loan parts on the secondary 
market was not guaranteed?
When Mr C opened his account, he agreed to Funding Circles terms and conditions. These
explained:
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any assurance as
to how long it may take to do so."
The investor guide available at the time of Mr C opening his account further explained:
Your loan parts are typically repaid over 6 months to 5 years, but you have options
to access your money at any stage.The investor guide explained that there were two options to withdraw funds. The first was by
way of switching off lending and withdrawing small amounts as the repayments from
borrowers are received. And the second was by selling loans to other investors to gain
access to lump sums. However, Funding Circle made it clear in the guide that, selling loans
is not instant and depends on demand from other investors looking buy at the time.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Funding Circle made it clear to Mr C that it wasnt guaranteed
that he could sell his loan parts on the secondary market; that accessing his fund in this way
was subject to supply and demand and that his investments may be tied up for up to five
years. And so Funding Circles communication about the account was clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Was it fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mr Cs loan parts on the secondary market?
Mr C was sent an email in October 2019 from Funding Circle to explain that it was
introducing the transfer payment which would apply from 2 December 2019. The email also
explained that Funding Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to reflect this.
The new terms and conditions explained:
10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market,
a Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part, to the
benefit of the purchasing Investor.
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its
previous terms and conditions which Mr C agreed to when opening his account:
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to
time without your consent for any of the following reasons:
[...]
to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to introduce 
new products or services or to withdraw products or services we no longer offer;
This type of term is known as a variation clause and it is common practice for financial
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. I understand that Mr C doesnt think
it was fair for Funding Circle to introduce the transfer payment by way of this variation
clause. However, its not my role to determine if Funding Circle were legally able to include a
clause like this in its terms and conditions. That would be something for a Court to decide.
However, under the ombudsmans terms of reference contained in section 228 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, I can look beyond the strict terms and conditions
to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
As previously explained, the transfer payment is not a charge or fee received by Funding
Circle. Its a payment made by the sellers of a loan part to the buyer of that loan part. This
acts as a discount applied to a loan valuation at the point of sale on the secondary market
and prior to end of the loan term.
In June 2019 the FCA published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and
investment-based crowdfunding platforms: Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the
FCA provided clarity around when and how often crowdfunding platforms should reprice
loans, by way of introducing new rules into COBS.COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation of each
P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of the P2P
agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a lender
before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the price offered for
exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Mr Cs case, Funding Circle are facilitating an exit for him by way of selling his loan parts
on the secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle has a
regulatory requirement to ensure that the price for Mr Cs loan parts are fair and appropriate.
Funding Circle has applied a blanket transfer payment of 1.25% to all loans which are sold in
this way. So in order to determine whether this is fair and appropriate its important to
understand what considerations Funding Circle made before introducing this.
Funding Circle has explained that its considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment would have on both the buyer and 
seller of loan parts on the secondary market.
As well as these considerations, its apparent from both what Mr C has complained about 
and Funding Circles own admissions that sales queues on the secondary market were 
increasing and it was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts 
in this way. And the introduction of the transfer payment clearly intended to combat these 
queues and to reduce the time investors such as Mr C must wait in order to sell their loan 
parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors, 
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts 
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results 
published to the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in 
loan parts sale requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there 
was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in the market is an 
important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Mr Cs loan parts. I say this as Funding 
Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and appropriate not only 
to Mr C but to the investors who intend to purchase them from him. So it follows that if the 
loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market conditions, then Funding Circle 
must ensure that the price offered reflects this.
Its also important to consider that Mr C doesnt have to sell his loan parts on the secondary
market if he doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. As Funding Circle has explained, thetransfer payment is only triggered if Mr C decides to exit from his investment before the
maturity date of the loans. So he is able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any
requests to transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment option; keeping the loan parts
until they mature and withdrawing his monthly repayments.
With all this in mind, Im satisfied that it was fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mr Cs loan
parts on the secondary market; it appropriately considered the impact this would have on Mr
C before implementing the transfer payment; it gave Mr C reasonable notice and he has an
option to keep his investments without incurring the transfer payment.
Responses to my provisional findings 
Funding Circle acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. Mr C responded by explaining he accepted my provisional decision and had no further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in 
that decision as outlined above. My final decision remains as outlined in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020. 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman