DRN-3826087
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined her claim for storm 
damage under her buildings insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term UKI also includes its agents, surveyors and loss 
adjusters in this decision letter.
What happened
Mrs R reported extensive roof damage following storm conditions in February 2022. She 
made a claim on her insurance policy. Mrs R wanted UKI to reimburse her for the cost of 
repair work, being nearly £30,000, together with an additional amount to compensate for the 
difference between the price of the more expensive original slate and new slate, as she 
thought it should pay on a like for like basis. UKIs loss adjuster attended the property in 
March 2022 and its engineer attended in April 2022. UKI ultimately considered that the storm 
wasnt the dominant cause of the damage, but simply highlighted existing defects which Mrs 
R had been alerted to when she purchased her home. UKI maintained its decision to decline 
the claim and Mrs R therefore referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He noted that wind speeds of up to 69mph had been 
recorded in the area, whilst media coverage reported wind speeds of up to 80mph inland in 
the UK at this time. He said that a 69mph windspeed would be considered a violent storm 
and that the damage was consistent with storm damage. He was persuaded by the evidence 
of Mrs Rs surveyor that the construction methods were normal for the type and age of roof 
and he therefore didnt think that UKI had declined the claim fairly. He asked UKI to reassess 
the claim and consider settling, unless it could prove poor workmanship or that anchoring the 
purlins would have prevented damage during a storm. 
UKI didnt agree with this view, it wished for a further independent surveyor to be instructed, 
which the investigator declined, and the matter was then referred to me to make a final 
decision on the case in my role as Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine here is whether UKI applied the terms and conditions of 
its policy and generally treated Mrs R in a fair and reasonable manner. I consider that it has 
not done so in all respects, and Ill explain why.
My starting point is the wording of the insurance policy. It covers the usual perils including 
storm damageIt also contains some standard exclusions including for wear and tear. It 
states: - Just like most insurers we don't cover: Wear and tearAny damage caused 
gradually  Faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials.
Turning to the submissions of the parties, I note that Mrs R thought that her UKI policy would 
cover her for the storm event which occurred in February 2022. She had recently moved into 
her home and the storm caused a huge amount of damage to it. Mrs R said that red weather 
alerts had been issued across the country, including in her county. She thought that winds 
had reached speeds of up to 120mph and had lifted the side of the roof, which resulted in a 
supporting beam in the loft to crack, which then moved the whole roof. As a result, she said 
that the ridge tiles came away, followed by slates. She said that she was on hold on the 
telephone with UKI for about an hour and half, before she was able to speak to an agent, 
who advised her to do all she could to secure the property.
Mrs R said that as UKI had told her to do all she could to secure the roof, she contacted a 
roofer who secured the house the following day. UKIs loss adjuster visited two days later, 
and Mrs R said he could see how severe the damage was and he authorized me to go 
ahead with the work. I was a bit nervous as he wasn't very clear about what work should be 
done/covered but said that it would be like for like. The roofer installed a tarpaulin to stop 
any water ingress and this required scaffolding. Mrs R said that the roofers wanted payment 
then and there and she had to find £6,200 and £800 respectively for this work. Mrs R also 
obtained three quotes for the substantive work.
Mrs R said that shed then had to chase UKI but didnt get any clear communication or 
advice from UKI. Eventually, UKI informed Mrs R that it would send out another surveyor as 
the quote was for nearly £30,000. Mrs R said she was given the impression by UKI that the 
surveyor was going to determine what work needed doing and not to question if it would pay 
for the work. She said that this surveyor again agreed that the damage was very severe 
and recommended that a structural engineer should come out before UKI declined the claim 
due to pre-existing wear and tear.
Mrs Rs surveyor disputed UKIs decision to decline her claim. She said the process took 
four months and scaffolding was in place throughout. Mrs R had to borrow nearly £30,000 to 
pay for the work and the episode had been hugely stressful, both financially and emotionally. 
She said that her home looked like a building site with a flapping tarpaulin creating noise and 
felt that UKI had treated her poorly. She had only been in the property since October 2021 
which had given her no time to fix the issues identified in the roof. She felt shed done 
everything that she could to minimize the damage to the property and had promptly 
instructed a roofer to secure the roof. She said shed been a loyal customer, had paid for 
insurance all her life without making a claim.
I now turn to what UKI has to say about the matter. It referred to its surveyors report and 
said that it confirmed the identification of several construction and poor workmanship 
defects. It stated that these compromised the ability for the roof structure to resist the 
winds which occurred during the storm. It said that the issues included problems with 
the purlin support, holes in the gable wall, evidence of water ingress at the chimney 
stack and defective flashing to the roof line. It also thought that the Mrs Rs pre-
purchase surveyors report of 2021 had several points within it which were consistent 
with the defects raised in the UKI report and some had required urgent attention in 2021.
UKI said that it didnt deny that the roof suffered damage due to the storms, however the 
roof also had existing issues. It said this meant that due to inadequacy within the roof 
structure, it couldnt withstand severe storm, and this had been pointed out to Mrs R pre-
purchase, but that she hadnt addressed them. It referred to exclusions in the policy, one 
relating to gradually occurring cause, or deterioration over time. The other relating to faulty 
workmanship and faulty design. It recognised that the form of roof construction wasnt 
unusual for properties of this age, however maintained its position that if the roof structure 
had been adequately constructed, it would have been robust enough to resist high winds during storm Eunice, and that damage wouldnt have occurred. It said There is clearly no 
vertical restraint at all offered to the roof to prevent uplift under excessive negative wind 
pressure. Ordinarily and throughout the lifetime of the property, the self-weight of the roof 
has exceeded the wind uplift. The stability has been gained by gravity alone. However, 
during excessive storms, not previously experienced by the building, the self-weight of the 
roof has proved insufficient to resist uplift
Turning to the available expert written evidence, this includes the surveyors report 
commissioned by UKI in March 2022, the survey obtained by Mrs R in 2021 and also a 
further recent opinion provided by Mrs Rs surveyor.
UKIs surveyor investigated and reported upon the structural integrity of the property and 
recommendations as to any structural remedial works considered necessary to maintain 
future stability and integrity following alleged damage to the roof structure during storm 
Eunice on 18th February 2022. The report dealt with a range of issues, however as to 
incident-related works, it didnt provide a specific, definitive view and said that a loss adjuster 
would need to give the matter careful consideration. It acknowledged that it may have 
occurred through the high winds during storm Eunice, but has highlighted numerous 
constructional and poor workmanship defects which will have compromised the ability of the 
timber framed roof to resist the wind forces applied to it during the storm. It said that if 
liability was engaged, there should be complete replacement of the front pitch of the roof 
with a strengthened roof structure. It provided a detailed methodology for this work.
The report described the roof as being a traditional, pitched, timber framed structure. Ridge 
tiles and slates had been blown off during the storm. The surveyor identified significant 
damage and roof distortion. It said that The front pitch appears skewed where it has in effect 
been lifted and has twisted during the storm... From an internal inspection the surveyor 
again noted: The internal roof structure is a traditional, timber purlin and rafter 
construction... He noted the distortion to front slope where it has in effect been lifted by high 
winds during the storm. Additional timbers have temporarily been installed to enable the front 
pitch to be propped. There is one snapped rafter. The report highlighted that the original 
timber ridge board appeared to have been previously removed and replaced with slender 
section of timber with insufficient bearing, with purlins not being keyed into the brickwork to 
each of the chimney stacks. It referred to rafters being wedged into place and evidence of 
water ingress to a chimney stack suggesting defective flashing. The report also noted that 
'despite this water ingress, inspection of the main roof timbers indicated no evidence of 
timber decay or beetle infestation. 
In the pre-purchase report produced in the summer of 2021, Mrs Rs surveyor said that 
much of the house appeared to be in the expected condition for its age and form of 
construction. There are however issues that do need to be confirmed and addressed in order 
that the whole property can be considered to be in the expected condition. It noted elements 
that required urgent attention and defects that were serious and/or need to be repaired, 
replaced or investigated urgently. It said, Failure to do so could risk serious safety issues or 
severe long-term damage to your property. In this respect, it identified issues with the roof 
structure including purlin support. It advised undertaking certain less urgent works at the 
same time as the roof repairs and set a figure of around £1,000 for internal and external 
works. It also however noted a slight area of sagging to the property's roof from ground level 
on the front elevation. Closer inspection of the roof is recommended. From internal 
inspection, the surveyor noted that the purlin is forming a sagging behaviour and should be 
further supported.
As to the further opinion of Mrs Rs surveyor produced in June 2022, he said that the 
defective areas outlined in its survey of June 2021, will not have had a significant impact on the outcome of the damage which occurred at your property. It said that it wasnt 
unusual for Victorian properties to have purlins not built into the structure of the building 
with wall plates not strapped and restrained. He thought that the roof would have stood 
the test of time and would have been subject to significant weathering in the past. The 
property is in an exposed location at the end of terrace and is significantly elevated. He 
thought that there had been unprecedented gusts of wind at the relevant time which 
would have damaged a number of roofs around the UK, including those built to modern 
standards and fully restrained.
As a service, we have a settled three-stage approach to insurance claims for storm 
damage. We firstly consider whether storm conditions occurred on or around the date the 
damage was said to have happened. The second issue to determine is whether the damage 
claimed is consistent with damage which a storm typically causes. The third question for 
determination is whether the storm conditions were the main or predominant cause of the 
damage. Were usually guided by available expert reports in such circumstances. In this 
case, the expert reports are consistent in many respects and neither categorically affirms the 
predominant cause of damage.
In this case, there is no dispute that storm conditions were present on the date that 
significant damage was caused to Mrs Rs roof. Im satisfied that the storm conditions 
were extreme and very damaging. Im also satisfied that the damage here was typical of 
the type of damage which can occur during such storm events, with lifting of and 
damage to components of the roof structure. The main question for me to determine is 
therefore whether the storm event or pre-existing condition of the roof was the 
predominant cause of damage in this case. UKI argue that the storm highlighted a pre-
existing problem and cause. I note from the evidence that the experts agree that there 
were pre-existing roof issues, particularly in relation to the purlins which needed to be 
addressed, but hadnt been addressed before the storm event. UKIs surveyor also 
highlighted an issue with inadequacy of a replacement timber ridge board which Mrs Rs 
surveyor hadnt identified. On the balance of probabilities, I accept that the nature of the 
replacement timber ridge board was an additional pre-existing issue which may have 
compromised the integrity of the roof structure.
I now need to balance the various factors to decide whether the cause of the damage 
was predominantly due to pre-existing factors or due to the extreme storm conditions. 
This is a finely balanced judgment in this case. However, having reflected carefully on all 
the evidence, I accept that the Victorian purlin configuration was not unusual and 
wouldnt have been classed as a poor construction at the relevant time. On the other 
hand, I consider that the evidence shows that the replacement ridge board was 
inadequate and indicated faulty design or workmanship. However, I dont consider that 
such faulty design or workmanship was the predominant cause for the roof to lift. As 
stated in UKIs report, it lifted and twisted. I consider this was to do with the extreme 
force of the wind in this case, together with what Mrs Rs surveyor identifies as the 
location of the property at a more exposed end of terrace in an elevated position. 
UKI places emphasis on the fact that Mrs R hadnt progressed the urgent items 
highlighted by her 2021 pre-purchase survey report. However, I dont consider this to be 
a fair emphasis. The urgent items from the pre-purchase report didnt identify an issue 
with the ridge boards. The report advised that less urgent works be carried out at the 
same time as the more urgent works, and as Mrs R had purchased the property in the 
autumn of 2021 and the storm event took place in early 2022, it wasnt reasonable to expect that full roof repairs could have been achieved within the relevant time-scale 
during winter months. 
In conclusion, I accept that the roofs traditional construction didnt meet modern 
construction methods, that the purlins werent anchored as they would be today and that 
the replacement ridge board was inadequate. Nevertheless, the roofs traditional 
construction had no doubt withstood a number of storms in previous years and there 
was no evidence of timber decay and UKI had chosen to insure the type of property. I 
consider that the extreme weather event here, together with the location of the property, 
were the predominant cause of damage to the roof in this case. In summary, on the 
balance of probabilities, I dont consider that it was fair or reasonable for UKI to decline 
Mrs Rs claim for roof damage under the exclusion clauses upon which it relied.
I dont however consider that UKI should be required to pay the difference in price 
between the original and new slate as Mrs R chose to go ahead with the new slate 
despite it being cheaper than the original type of slate. This was a matter of choice, 
albeit I appreciate that she may have been influenced by availability, but also uncertainty 
as to whether UKI would be meeting the cost of the claim. I also note that Mrs R 
experienced delays in the processing of this claim, however as the outcome was finely 
balanced, I cant say that it would be fair to require UKI to pay a further compensatory 
award where it needed to take time to carefully assess the issue of liability. I therefore 
consider this to be a fair outcome for the parties in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Rs complaint against UK Insurance Limited. 
I therefore require UKI to settle Mrs Rs claim for the cost of relevant roof repairs (following 
provision by Mrs R of a formal receipt or invoice), in accordance with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy and within 28 days of her acceptance of this Final Decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman