DRN-2280770
The complaint
Mr M complains that Fairmead has unfairly refused to meet a claim he made for damaged 
furniture.
What happened
Mr M noticed stains on his relatively new furniture cushions. He thought it might be a 
manufacturing defect so contacted the business he bought it from. They sent a specialist out 
who said the stains were from hair oil, rather than a manufacturing defect.
Mr M then approached Fairmead, which agreed to look at his claim under the accidental 
damage section of his policy. Fairmead got one of its specialists to review the report from 
the furniture supplier, and the specialist agreed with the conclusions, based on the photos in 
the report. 
Fairmead said it wouldnt meet the claim as it believes the damage must have built up over 
time, and it doesnt have to pay where damage is caused by general wear and tear.
Mr M complained but Fairmead didnt change its stance, so he brought his complaint to us 
for review.
Our investigator explained that it wasnt her role to decide how the damage was caused, but 
instead to say if Fairmead had fairly dealt with the claim. She thought it reasonable for 
Fairmead to base its decision on the report from the furniture manufacturer and its own 
specialists review of that report. So she didnt think Fairmead need do more than it has.
Mr M thinks thats unfair and says whenever it happened the damage must have been 
accidental, so Fairmead should meet his claim. Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Before I give my reasons for this, it might help if I 
comment on Mr Ms examples of accidental damage. Whilst Ive read these, and I 
understand why he says what he has, Im afraid I can only consider the facts relevant to this 
particular claim. That means these comments havent been given any weight when Ive 
reached my conclusions.
Home insurance policies arent meant to cover everything that might happen to a home or its 
contents. So they only cover certain situations, which are listed in the policy terms and 
conditions  often called insured events. For Mr M to make a successful claim, he needs to 
show Fairmead that his property has been damaged by one of the insured events. 
Fairmead considered Mr Ms claim under accidental damage, which is described in the 
policy as unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden means.
Mr M says the damage was accidental. I understand why Mr M says this  but unfortunately 
he doesnt know, with any certainty, how it happened or when. I dont doubt the damage was 
unintended and unexpected  but I dont think hes shown us it was sudden. I say that 
because Mr M says his first response when he found the stains, was to think the problem 
was caused by a manufacturing defect. 
Mr M later said the damage might have been caused by hair oil or other products  possibly 
if his daughters lay on the furniture. That suggests he wasnt aware of one particular incident 
that had damaged the furniture. Im not persuaded hes shown Fairmead the damage was 
sudden. 
Without a clear cause of damage, it is appropriate that Fairmead rely on a specialist report 
as to the most likely cause of the damage. I think its done that. I dont think its necessary for 
Fairmead to send someone to look at the damage when theres a clear report already in 
existence from someone experienced in how damage like this is caused. So I think it is fair 
that Fairmead rely on the review conducted by its own specialist.
That says the damage most likely accumulated gradually, rather than suddenly. And the 
accumulation of hair products is a common cause of damage that does build up over time. I 
cant say this is an unreasonable conclusion, and this type of damage isnt covered by Mr 
Ms policy. So I think Fairmead has been reasonable when it said it need not meet the claim. 
I do understand Mr Ms disappointment, but it isnt appropriate for me to ask Fairmead to do 
more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman