DRN-2568958
The complaint
Ms B (via a third-party representative) complains Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms B took four instalment loans between May and August 2019. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan number loan amount received date repayment date
1 £390.00 18/05/2019 22/05/2019
2 £490.00 22/05/2019 24/05/2019
3 £480.00 17/08/2019 24/08/2019
4 £390.00 24/08/2019 outstanding
When we received the complaint, Lending Stream told us there was an outstanding balance 
due for loan 4.  
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Lending Stream to have provided the first three 
loans. However, the adjudicator said that Lending Stream ought to have carried out further, 
more in-depth checks for the final loan. But the adjudicator couldnt say what Lending 
Stream wouldve seen had it carried out further checks. So, he couldnt uphold the complaint 
about any of the loans. 
Ms B disagrees with the adjudicators assessment. She said Lending Stream didnt take 
copies of any bank statements or wage slips and she didnt have the means to repay the 
lending. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream had to assess the loan applications to check if Ms B could afford to pay 
back the amounts she was borrowing without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Stream s checks could have taken 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments and Ms Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream shouldve done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Ms B. These factors include: 
Ms B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ms B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms B.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Ms Bs complaint.
loans 1 - 3
Each of these loans was to be repaid via 6 monthly instalments. For each of these loans 
Lending Stream asked Ms B to declare her monthly income and expenditure. Ms B declared 
to Lending Stream her income was between £1,295 and £1,310. While her declared 
expenditure has been recorded as being between £775 and £853. 
Lending Stream also carried out a credit check and considered as expenditure any 
undeclared credit commitments that it could see, together with a further buffer for expenses. 
After doing this, it adjusted Ms Bs expenditure up to between £944 - £1,027. And it is these 
figures that Lending Stream used when determining whether Ms B could afford the loan 
repayments. Its calculations suggested that she had a monthly disposable income of 
between £268 and £366.
Considering the amount being lent and with a limited lending history, I think the checks went 
far enough. And based on the checks Lending Stream completed Im satisfied that loans 1- 3 
wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable. 
Im sorry to hear that Ms B was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. And I accept that Ms Bs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected ineither the information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream may have seen 
in its checks. And it might be that Ms Bs actual financial position may well have been 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained.
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship, or based on
what Lending Stream knew about Ms B, that meant it needed to verify the information. So, I 
dont think that it could or should have known that Ms B was having financial difficulties at 
the time.
So, looking at everything together, Ive found that Lending Stream wasnt wrong to lend. 
loan 4     
Like loans 1  3 Lending Stream carried out the same level of checks that it had done 
before. It asked Ms B for her income, which she declared to be £1,295 per month, with her 
declared monthly expenditure being £825. But due to Lending Streams buffer it increased 
the monthly expenditure figure to £944. This gave Ms B around £300 a month disposable 
income to afford the repayments of around £134 per month. Based on this information 
Lending Stream couldve reasonably concluded that Ms B would be in a position to afford the 
repayments she was committed to making. 
However, like the adjudicator I think Lending Streams checks needed to go further by the 
time this loan was approved. Loan 4 was approved the same date that loan 3 had been 
repaid and this was now the second time that Ms B had returned for further borrowing on the 
same day a previous loan had been repaid. 
In addition to this, Ms B was starting to show a pattern of taking out loans that were due to 
run for six months, but then repaying what she had borrowed within a matter of days 
indicating she wasnt using the loans as Lending Stream had intended. These factors 
together, given the number of loans ought to have led Lending Stream to have carried out 
further checks. 
By this point, I think it wouldve proportionate for Lending Stream to have started to verify 
what Ms B was telling it about her finances. It couldve done this a number of ways, it 
couldve asked for her bank statements, or for copies of her wage slip and bills. It didnt do 
this so the checks didnt go far enough. 
However, Ms B hasnt provided us with a copy of her bank statements, credit file or any 
other information this service couldve used to understand what her actual financial position 
was at the time the loan was approved. So, I dont know what Lending Stream may have 
discovered by carrying out a proportionate check. It therefore follows that I cant say Lending 
Stream made an error by providing the final loan. 
Taking into account the above, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint about these loans. I 
appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms B. But I hope that shell understand why Ive 
reached the findings that I have. 
I understand there is an outstanding balance due on the final loan, and I would remind 
Lending Stream of its obligation to treat Ms B fairly when dealing with the repayment of this 
loan. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman