DRN-3107186
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T have complained that Hiscox Underwriting Limiteds (Hiscox) actions led to 
them being underinsured under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T had a flood at their home. When Hiscox investigated the claim, it paid Mr T 
and Mrs T a global settlement. 
Mr T and Mrs T complained to Hiscox and said that Hiscox had carried out a survey at their 
home to check it was appropriately insured. They said that as Hiscox hadnt shared its 
surveyors report, this had resulted in them being underinsured. When Hiscox replied, it said 
it wasnt under any obligation to share its report. The sums were also discussed at length 
with the surveyor and, at Mr T and Mrs Ts insistence, it was agreed that the sums remain as 
in the published report. It was ultimately the responsibility of the policyholder to ensure the 
sums insured were accurate and up to date.
When Mr T and Mrs T complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said there was nothing to show Hiscox was required to share the report. He 
also said the policy had renewed since the survey and the onus was on the policyholder to 
ensure the sum insured was adequate.
As Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr T and Mrs T had a policy that covered the property they owned, its contents and vehicles. 
Mr T and Mrs Ts general contents was initially insured for £250,000. This figure was the 
amount Mr T and Mrs T said the contents was worth when they first took out the policy. I 
understand that this figure was based on Mr T and a broker assessing the value of the 
general contents. Hiscox agreed to insure Mr T and Mrs T. By the time of the claim, the 
contents sum insured had increased to £265,225. When the claim for the flood was settled, 
the settlement for the general contents was capped at that amount, which was well below 
the value of the contents. 
The policy documents said:
The following shows the information that has been provided to us by you or your insurance 
agent. We have relied on this information in deciding to accept this insurance.

It is your responsibility to ensure that the amount insured is sufficient to cover the full value 
of the risks insured. We may use the information you have provided us to check the amount 
insured and if we have reason to believe this is insufficient we will notify you.
Hiscox arranged for a surveyor to visit Mr T and Mrs Ts home. I asked Hiscox to confirm the 
purpose of the survey and to explain why at the top of the survey report it said Ensuring you 
have the correct protection in place. Hiscox said:
During the appointment, the surveyors look at the security of the property, the proximity of 
water sources to the home, potential hazards that might increase the risk of a claim amongst 
many other things. Ensuring you have the correct protection is about far more than 
considering the adequacy of the sum insured. Its about making sure that we understand the 
risk that we are insuring and can provide advice accordingly. The visit is brief and we ask our 
surveyor to consider many different things, considering sums insured adequacy is a small 
part of this. The primary focus of the report is understanding risk management, fire, 
security, perils & liability.
Mr T and Mrs T have said that Hiscox should have provided them with a copy of the 
surveyors report. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Hiscox prepared the report on the basis 
that it would be shared with Mr T and Mrs T or made any commitment to do so. Im also 
mindful that even if the report had been shared, I cant see this would have helped to 
address the issue that was raised as a result of the claim, which was that the general 
contents was underinsured. The report agreed with the amount Mr T and Mrs T said the 
contents was worth, rather than indicating there was any issue with it. Although the top of the 
survey report said Ensuring you have the correct protection in place, given the report 
wasnt provided to Mr T and Mrs T, I dont think I can reasonably say this would have misled 
Mr T and Mrs T. It was a report for Hiscoxs internal use. 
Hiscox has also told this service it didnt carry out a valuation of the contents, that the 
surveyor wasnt qualified to do so and that he wasnt there long enough to carry out a 
contents valuation. The terms and conditions said it would rely on the information provided 
by the policyholder and that it was the policyholders responsibility to ensure that the 
amount insured is sufficient to cover the full value of the risks insured. Hiscox used the 
value provided by Mr T and Mrs T as the amount for which the general contents was 
insured, which was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I also have two differing accounts of what happened during the surveyor visit. The surveyors 
report said:
The current sum insured for General Contents was discussed at length. It was agreed that 
this should be kept at £250,000, to include all contents of the house (including clothing) and 
the contents of the outbuildings.
In its final response to the complaint, which went to the broker, Hiscox also said:
 it is my understanding that the sums were discussed at length with the surveyor given 
their concerns regarding underinsurance, however given insistence from your client, there 
was an agreement that they remain as published in the report.
I asked Mr T about any discussion he had with the surveyor. Mr T said:
I can confirm that nothing was discussed at length the surveyor was not in any one area of 
my home long enough. He just walked around never stopping to discuss anything at length, 
all I remember was the odd question and complimentary comment. If anything relevant had 
been discussed the insurers would havefollowed that up in writing and again by failing to provide the report to me or my brokers, they 
have knowingly allowed me to be underinsured and did exactly the opposite to what they 
had written and I relied upon.

I was insistent that the contents be correct not that it was correct and waited for their
assessment if they did not agree.
So, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that a conversation took place about the contents. But 
the explanations of what was discussed differs. Given the amount of time that has passed 
since that survey, Im inclined to put more weight on the surveyors summary of what 
happened given it was written around the time of the visit. That being the case, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr T was told, and therefore notified, that the contents insured 
value might not be adequate.
I also note that in the policy documents, there was a section called Survey Subjectivity, 
which said:
If our qualified surveyor recommends any work to be undertaken we will write to you
explaining what is required and also the timeframes within which you must carry out any 
additional requirements.
So, this part of the policy said Hiscox would write to the policyholder with concerns about 
works that needed to be carried out, not more general comments about the cover provided. 
I cant see that the general contents sum insured was works required. An insurer also cant 
force a policyholder to increase the contents sum insured and, if it agreed to insure 
someone, would apply the relevant policy limits and terms and conditions in the event of a 
claim.
Im also aware the policy renewed. Each renewal was a new contract of insurance. The 
renewal documents said:
By accepting this insurance you confirm that the facts stated below are true. We have relied 
on these facts and all information you or your insurance agent provided, in deciding to 
accept this insurance and in setting the terms and premium. You must make sure that all the 
information provided to us is accurate and complete. If any of the facts stated below or any 
of the information provided to us is not correct, you should inform us as soon as possible.
So, I think the documents made it clear the terms on which the policy was offered and that 
this included relying on information provided by Mr T and Mrs T and their broker. This 
included the value of the general contents.
It seems that the value of the general contents only really became an issue when Mr T and 
Mrs T made an extensive claim following a flood. When Mr T and Mrs T agreed a global 
settlement for the claim, they signed a document accepting that amount as full settlement. 
Mr T and Mrs T have since told this service they felt pressured to accept the settlement. I am 
unable to comment on the claim settlement itself or to look at this as part of this complaint. 
Mr T and Mrs T would need to raise this with Hiscox in the first instance.
Based on everything Ive seen, Hiscox wasnt required to share the report and I havent seen 
anything to show that by not doing so, this was the reason why the contents was 
underinsured. I think a conversation more likely than not took place during the surveyors 
visit that at least raised the issue that the contents might be underinsured. However, Hiscox 
wasnt required to put that in writing and was entitled to accept the figure Mr T and Mrs T 
had provided for the contents value. The policy also renewed after the survey and it was for the policyholder to ensure the sum insured was adequate. As a result, I dont uphold this 
complaint or require Hiscox to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman