DRN-3618718
The complaint
Mr L complains that Loans to Go Limited (trading as Loans 2 Go) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr L was given a loan by Loans 2 Go in February 2020. He borrowed £1000 and agreed to 
repay this over 18 months. Mr L had also asked for a loan in 2019 with Loans 2 Go but he 
withdrew from this one.
I have issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. The first one was in June 2022 
where I did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. I then issued a second provisional decision in 
July 2022 where I then upheld it. Both parties have received a copy of the two provisional 
decisions, but for completeness I include an extract from both of the decisions below. I 
said;
Provisional decision 1  June 2022
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr L 
about his income and expenditure. It says it verified his income using an online tool. It 
carried out a credit check. Those checks suggested Mr L had enough disposable income 
each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr L was entering into a fairly significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So, I think it is right that Loans 2 Go 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ls financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what Loans 2 Go gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that Loans 2 Go conducted. The search showed that Mr L 
was making use of credit that was available to him. Mr L had several accounts and had a 
monthly amount he needed to repay that I can see Loans 2 Go included in its affordability 
assessment. Our investigator concluded that the amount Mr L had to repay was a significant 
amount and I think Loans 2 Go ought to have had concerns about this. But I can also see 
that Mr L was managing his credit well and had, overall, a positive payment history.  So, I 
dont think Loans 2 Go would necessarily have been prompted to do more or react to what 
its search showed it.
I think when I consider how much Mr Ls verified monthly income was of around £1853, and 
what Loans 2 Go assessed he had in essential spend of around £1374, I think the credit he 
had taken out was affordable for him.
I appreciate that Mr Ls financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks Loans 2 Go performed were proportionate 
and didnt suggest that Mr L was facing any current problems in managing his finances. I 
think Loans 2 Go was entitled to rely on what Mr L said about his finances, and his 
circumstances at the time and use this along with other information it gathered to make an 
assessment on affordability. And that information suggested that he would be able to 
sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So, I dont currently think Loans 2 Go was 
wrong to give the loan to Mr L.
Provisional decision 2  July 2022
I drew the conclusion in my first provisional decision, that Loans 2 Go had carried out 
proportionate checks. Mr L has responded to this and said the checks it carried out and its 
assessed income and expenditure was very different to what he had declared at the time. 
He says after seeing the discrepancy between the two, that it should have asked for 
further information and further validated the figures provided so it could assure itself that 
he could make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. So, I have looked into this 
again. 
I acknowledge what Mr L has said here and, in this instance, I am now currently minded to 
agree with what he has said. 
Loans 2 Go reduced Mr Ls declared income from £2500 a month to £1853 after verifying 
this. It then increased what Mr L says his expenditure was of £950, to £1374, based on 
checks it carried out this included a credit search. 
After considering its checks again, I now dont think Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate 
for this loan. This is because I can see there was a discrepancy between what Mr L said 
about his expenditure and what it says it could see through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 
Go should have accepted the loan knowing or having reason to suspect Mr L wasnt being 
truthful about his income or expenditure in this case. So, I think Loans 2 Go should either 
have carried out further checks to see if there were good reasons for this, or it shouldnt 
have provided Mr L with the loan. This leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take 
additional steps to verify what Mr Ls actual monthly expenditure was.
As I have now concluded reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before 
this loan was provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide 
whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that 
Mr L would have been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing bank statements that 
Mr L has provided for the days leading up to his applications for the loan. When I look 
through these statements, I can see that Mr L was spending significant amounts on 
gambling transactions in the days leading up to requesting this loan. I am minded to 
conclude that if Loans 2 Go had carried out further checks, it would have more likely than not 
uncovered this information, and in doing so, would not have granted the loan to Mr L. This is 
because it would have seen that Mr L had significant problems managing his finances. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I currently conclude that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr L would not have been able to sustainably repay this loan. So, Im currently satisfied that Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Mr L.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with the loan for the reasons given above. 
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my second provisional decision. 
Loans 2 Go responded and has no further comments. Mr L has responded and said he 
has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have raised any further points. So, as I am not looking into anything else or 
making any additional findings, I wont be changing the outcome of my second provisional 
decision sent out in July 2022 to the parties. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. 
It is now time for Loans 2 Go to put things right.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr L shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr L made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr L was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr L to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ls credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Loans 2 Go limited to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman