DRN-3941068
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and then closed his account and returned the funds 
to source. He would like the funds returned to him and an explanation.
What happened
Mr H had an account with Revolut.
Following a review on 26 February 2021 Mr Hs account was blocked. Revolut closed the 
account and returned the funds in the account to their original source on 30 March 2021.
Mr H was unhappy that Revolut blocked and closed the account. He was also unhappy his 
money had been returned to source, so he complained to Revolut. 
Revolut said they had complied with their regulatory obligations and their terms and 
conditions when they took these actions.
Mr H was unhappy with Revoluts response, so he complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Revolut had not acted unfairly when they 
reviewed and later closed Mr Hs accounts and returned funds to source.
Mr H was unhappy with the view. He said he hadnt been asked to provide evidence as to 
the source of his funds. He didnt think it fair that Revolut had returned funds to source as he 
was now not able to recover those funds.
Revolut offered Mr H a partial refund of some of the funds it had returned to source 
amounting to £1,100 as well as £100 compensation. Mr H rejected the offer.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from firms as 
confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains information about other 
customers or security information. Some of the information Revolut has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential, so I wont be sharing a lot of 
detail with Mr H, but Id like to reassure him that Ive considered everything.
Account review and closure 
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Hs account. 
I then turn to Revoluts decision to close Mr Hs account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a financial institution must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. 
Under the terms of the account Mr H held, Revolut are entitled to end the relationship. I can 
see that they notified Mr H on their decision, so I cant say Revolut have done anything 
wrong. 
Funds returned to source
Mr H is very unhappy that Revolut have returned the funds in the account to source. Some 
of the funds were returned to another account in his name. But he has highlighted a sum of 
around £2,200 which he says he is not able to get back. I appreciate Mr H is very concerned 
about this. Mr H has had to contact the recipients of these funds and on at least one case 
they have refused to refund him. Mr H feels he shouldnt be the one chasing people to get 
his money back. He believes Revolut should refund the money to him as they should never 
have sent it back to source.
I accept that Mr H has felt very frustrated by this situation. Sending funds back to source is a 
step which can risk detriment to a complainant so there needs to be a reasonable 
justification for doing so. So, Ive gone on to consider if Revolut were justified in taking the 
action it did. 
Having looked at the evidence that Revolut has provided to this service I am satisfied that 
Revolut acted fairly and in line with their legal and regulatory obligations when they returned 
the funds back to source. It follows I wont be asking them to refund the money to Mr H. I 
know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant say Revolut have acted unfairly 
here. 
I know Revolut previously made an offer to Mr H. As Ive mentioned I don't think anything is 
warranted here, so Ill leave it to Revolut and Mr H to determine if this is still available should 
Mr H now wish to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman