DRN-3896276
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr M telephoned Capital One on 5 August 2022 because he wanted to reset an agreed 
payment plan on his account, having been unable to make the previous scheduled payment 
on that plan because of an unexpectedly large utility bill. 
The agent Mr M spoke with refreshed Capital Ones understanding of Mr Ms income and 
expenditure, and having done so explained that Mr M appeared to now have more money 
going out each month than he had coming in. Because of this, the Capital One agent 
suggested to Mr M that he be placed on a breathing space payment hold, whereby Mr M 
could pay what he was able to afford rather than having to commit to a set monthly amount. 
Mr M asked whether his account would be at risk of being defaulted if he accepted the 
agents suggestion and was told that, so long as he made some payment towards the 
account each month, a default wouldnt be applied. On that basis, Mr M accepted the 
suggestion put forward by Capital Ones agent and agreed to the breathing space hold. But 
the following month Mr M discovered that Capital One had defaulted his account for non-
payment. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Capital One responded to Mr Ms complaint and acknowledged that their agent had given 
incorrect information to Mr M and confirmed that an account will still default if it meets the 
criteria to do so while in a breathing space hold. Capital One apologised to Mr M for this and 
made a payment of £75 to him as compensation for any upset or trouble the provision of 
incorrect information to him may have caused. But Capital One still felt that, because of the 
arrears that had accrued on Mr Ms account, the default had been applied correctly. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Capital One had 
issued to Mr Ms complaint already represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes listening to a recording of the 5 August 2022 telephone call between Mr M and 
Capital One wherein Mr M was incorrectly told that his account wouldnt be at risk of 
defaulting if he accepted the breathing space hold suggested by Capital Ones agent. And it 
seems clear to me that Mr M was conscious on this call about the possibility of his account 
being defaulted and was trying to avoid that outcome. 
So, I can understand why Mr M would feel hed been treated unfairly when, having been told 
that his account wouldnt be at risk of defaulting if he accepted the breathing space hold, his 
account was then defaulted by Capital One shortly afterwards. 
But while it isnt in dispute that Mr M was told that his account wouldnt be at risk of default 
by Capital Ones agent, it doesnt follow from this that Capital One acted unfairly by then 
defaulting Mr Ms account as they did.
I say this because when Mr M called Capital One on 5 August 2022, his account was already 
in a position of significant arrears. And while Mr M had made a payment of £24.00 towards 
his account in July 2022, this was the first payment that had been made towards the account 
for six months  since January 2022.
Additionally, in June 2022, because of the arrears on the account  which at that time were 
approximately £190  Mr M had agreed to a payment plan with Capital One where he would 
pay £38 by the first of each of the next nine months. But Mr M didnt pay £38 on 1 July 2022, 
and instead paid only £24 in the middle of July and nothing at the start of August  and it 
was because hed missed the payment of £38 due at the start of August that Mr M called 
Capital One on 5 August 2022.
Because Mr Ms account was in a ignificant state of arrears at that time of the 5 August 
telephone call, including that Mr M had already failed to meet an arrears repayment plan 
previously arranged with Capital One, it seems clear to me that Mr Ms account was in a 
position at that time where it was fair and reasonable for Capital One to default it. 
Furthermore, I feel this is true regardless of the fact that Mr M was given incorrect 
information by Capital Ones agent. And I say this is because I feel the position of the 
account as meriting default supersedes the provision of the incorrect information by Capital 
Ones agent. It also must be noted that, following the 5 August call, Capital One sent a 
default notice to Mr M dated 9 August 2022 which clearly explained that Mr Ms account 
would be defaulted if the arrears present on the account werent cleared in a timely manner. 
Mr M may argue that he didnt ask for the breathing space hold and had wanted to reinstate 
the payment plan to avoid his account being defaulted. But Mr M had explained to Capital 
Ones agent that his monthly expenditure  specifically, his utility bills  had permanently 
increased, so that when Capital Ones agent included this increased expenditure in their 
ongoing understanding of Mr Ms financial position, it showed that Mr M had no money 
available to him to make any monthly payment to his Capital One account at all. And when 
Capital Ones agent asked Mr M about this, Mr M explained that he would cut back on 
buying food to be able to pay Capital One.
Under such circumstances  where a customer has explained how they have to prioritise 
account repayments over food  it wouldnt be expected that Capital One would insist on a 
set monthly payment from Mr M, and so I dont feel that the agent acted unreasonably by 
offering the breathing space hold to Mr M as they did.
Ultimately, having considered Mr Ms financial position as he explained it to Capital One, as 
well as the position of his account as described above, I dont feel that Mr M would in all 
likelihood have been able to make payments towards his account sufficient to prevent it from 
being defaulted by Capital One  and I feel this would have been the case even if Mr M had 
been given correct information about the breathing space hold by Capital Ones agent. 
To support this position, Id like to reiterate that when Mr M agreed to the £38 per month 
payment plan in June 2022 his account was already in a state of prolonged arrears, with no 
payment having been received to the account since January 2022. Mr M didnt then meet 
that £38 payment plan, paying only £24 later than should have been the case in July and not 
making the August 2022 scheduled payment, so that the agreement was effectively broken. And when Mr M spoke with Capital One about this, he explained that his utility bills had 
increased which meant that, by Capital Ones understanding, Mr M had no money available 
to him with which to make payments to his Capital One account. Finally, when Capital One 
asked Mr M about this, he indicated to them that he would cut back on food to make the 
necessary payments to Capital One  payments which he hadnt made the for the majority of 
the seven months previously.
In these circumstances, the defaulting of Mr Ms account  which had the effect of freezing 
the balance outstanding so that it couldnt increase  feels fair and reasonable to me. And I 
dont feel Mr M would have been able to avoid such a default, especially as it wouldnt be 
expected that Capital One would reinstate a monthly payment plan under the circumstances 
described above  which, given that Mr M had already broken the £38 per month agreement 
he made in June, there was no guarantee Capital One would have been willing to do. All of 
which means that I wont be instructing Capital One to remove the default from Mr Ms credit 
file as he would like.
But I do feel that Mr M should be compensated by Capital One for being given incorrect 
information about the risk of his account defaulting by their agent. Capital One also felt this 
way, and they apologised to Mr M for what happened and made a payment of £75 to him. 
This seems like a reasonable amount to me, given what happened and given that I feel the 
account would, in all likelihood, have defaulted regardless of what Mr M had been told. And I 
can confirm that this amount is commensurate with what I may have instructed Capital One 
to pay Mr M, had they not already done so. As such, I wont be instructing Capital One to 
take any further action in this regard.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but it follows that Im satisfied that 
Capital One have already fairly resolved this complaint, and so I wont be upholding it here. I 
hope that Mr M will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman