DRN-3472784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined their claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their policy for storm damage. They said early in October 
2021 there was water ingress via one of the light fittings in our bathroom - a room
immediately under the rear roof elevation. This happened on two occasions - a few days 
apart. On both occasions the weather outside was stormy (very high winds and heavy rain).
There has been no other water ingress, on any other occasion, despite there being very 
heavy rain on several occasions - but much less wind.
Lloyds appointed a contractor to survey the damage. The surveyor took pictures of the third-
story roof via a camera on a long pole. Lloyds decided to decline the claim based upon the 
surveyors report. It said [our surveyors] report shows photos of the roof and they havent 
been able to find any evidence of storm damage.
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy their claim has been declined. Mr and Mrs M said the fact that 
damage is not visible - does not mean that it is not there. The tiles could have been simply 
lifted by the storm to allow water ingress and this does not mean that they would appear 
damaged by a simple observation. Mr and Mrs M has asked for Lloyds to carry out a more 
in-depth survey and to cover the repairs to their property.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He confirmed a storm occurred around 
the date of the reported incident. However, he didnt see any evidence that the storm had 
caused damage to the roof. In the absence of this evidence, he thought Lloyds had been fair 
to decline the claim for storm damage to the roof. However, he did think the internal damage 
to the house was consistent with storm damage, but as he thought the cost to repair this 
damage would be lower than the policy excess, he didnt think Mr and Mrs M had been 
financially impacted. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1. Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2. Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Lloyds have defined in its policy what a storm is. Lloyds have confirmed to our service that it 
believes there was a storm around the date of the reported incident. Therefore, as storm 
conditions were present, I will consider the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Lloyds declined the claim, it said from the photos there is no evidence of storm damage, the 
roof is in a good state of repair and there are no missing or cracked tiles.
Its important to note that its the policyholders responsibility to provide evidence that 
damage has been caused by a storm. Mr and Mrs M have provided a testimony that the leak 
only occurred when storm conditions were present, but they havent been able to provide 
any reports from experts.
Lloyds appointed a surveyor and has shared the photographs that the surveyor took of the 
roof. Mr and Mrs M said the survey was not thorough enough as the photographs and 
investigation were carried out from distance with a camera on the end of a long pole. Its not 
unusual in the industry for photographs to be taken in this way to substantiate claims. I have 
checked the photographs that have been taken of the roof and the quality is good. They 
appear to show the whole roof above where the water ingress occurred. Therefore, I think 
the survey that Lloyds has undertaken is reasonable in the circumstances.
Lloyds has said there is no evidence of damage to the roof. I have reviewed the photos and I 
think its assessment is fair. Where water ingress has been caused by a storm, I would 
expect to see some signs of damage, such as missing or dislodged tiles. In these photos the 
roof seems in good condition, there is no obvious evidence of damage.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M said the tiles could simply have been lifted in the storm allowing 
water ingress to occur. However, I think this is unlikely. Lloyds appointed surveyor said in 
the adjacent area the vent is also near area of ingress. No signs of any visible storm 
damage. It is potential the ingress is occurring at the junction of the two pitches, but we cant 
confirm this as the area would need to be stripped off to confirm this. Im persuaded that the 
cause of the water ingress is due to a fault in the roof thats not visible. As the damage isnt 
consistent with what I would expect a storm to cause, then I wont consider the final 
question. I think Lloyds has been fair in declining the claim as there isnt evidence a storm 
was the cause of the damage. I dont think this was the likely cause.
Lloyds has said if Mr and Mrs M are able to provide some evidence the storm caused 
damage to the roof then it would be happy to consider it. I think this is a reasonable position 
for Lloyds to take. Mr and Mrs M are still able to do this and it would be fair for Lloyds to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs M for any reasonable receipts incurred in obtaining an expert opinion, 
if they were able to evidence that a storm did cause the damage claimed for.
The investigator indicated that he thought the internal damage was a result of storm 
damage. I dont take this view, for the reason I have provided. I havent seen any evidence a 
storm caused the damage.
I have considered if the damage could be covered by another part of the policy, but I dont 
think it can. Therefore, in summary I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, if Mr and Mrs M do subsequently provide 
evidence that a storm did cause damage, then Id expect Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to consider the new evidence.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman