DRN-3896858
The complaint
This complaint arises from mortgage advice Mr R was given in December 2006 by Mr D, a 
representative of TenetLime Ltd. Mr R says:
the estate agent, Mr A, who introduced him to Mr D, is a convicted sex offender. Mr D 
would have known this as it was common knowledge in the area, and so should not have 
agreed to accept and process a mortgage application from Mr A.
TenetLime failed to respond to a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
Mr R has complained about other issues relating to the mortgage advice he was given. 
However, I have today issued a jurisdiction decision explaining why we cant look at those 
parts of the complaint. I will therefore make no further comment about those matters.
Mr R is represented in this complaint by a third party but for the sake of clarity I will refer to 
Mr R throughout.
What happened
On 8 December 2006 Mr R was given mortgage advice, following which he took out an 
interest-only mortgage. The mortgage term has come to an end, there are substantial 
mortgage arrears and the lender is seeking possession of the property.
A complaint was raised with TenetLime on 26 March 2022 about the two issues detailed in 
the complaint section above and about other issues relating to the mortgage advice. 
In its final response to the complaint, TenetLime said there was no evidence to suggest Mr D 
was aware of any information about Mr A. TenetLime said that Mr A introduced Mr R to 
Mr D, and so the application wasnt accepted for processing from any third party.
TenetLime said it had referred the request for a DSAR to Mr D, and had reminded him of the 
timescale to respond to this.
Unhappy with TenetLimes response, Mr R complained to our service, not just about the 
above two issues, but about other concerns arising from the mortgage advice. 
An investigator explained that the only parts of the complaint we could consider were those 
relating to Mr A being a convicted sex offender, and about the DSAR. After looking at those 
matters, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I stated above, I have today issued a jurisdiction decision in which I have decided that the 
only two issues we can consider are those set out in the complaint section of this decision.
Having reviewed the evidence, I am not upholding the complaint. These are my reasons.
No evidence has been produced by Mr R to support his allegation that Mr A was a convicted 
sex offender. In any event, Mr A isnt covered by our service and allegations of criminal 
behaviour arent covered by our rules. I therefore wont comment on this any further.
However, the rather more serious allegation which does involve TenetLime is this:  Mr Rs 
argument is that, because Mr A was a convicted sex offender, he was unable to gain the 
proper regulatory permissions to carry out regulated mortgage advice. Instead, Mr R says 
that Mr A gave the advice to Mr R and used Mr D as a front to process the application. 
Mr R says that Mr As conviction was common knowledge in the area and that it would be 
surprising if Mr D didnt know about this. As a result, Mr R argues that TenetLime should 
not have accepted an application made through Mr A in this way. Mr D has confirmed he had 
no knowledge of any such information about Mr A, and that it was he who gave the advice to 
Mr R. I can see from what he has told us that Mr D is deeply offended at the suggestion that 
he fronted the application for Mr A.
The contemporaneous documentation doesnt support Mr Rs version of events. I am 
satisfied I can rely on this evidence, because it was compiled at the time of the events. It is 
therefore more likely to be a reliable record of what happened than the recollection of the 
parties many years after the event. 
The evidence shows that the advice was given, and the application submitted, by Mr D. It is 
correct that Mr A paid the valuation fee on behalf of Mr R. Mr D has explained that this was 
because Mr R didnt have a valid credit or debit card. Im satisfied that there is nothing 
untoward or sinister about this.
After considering the evidence, I am satisfied that Mr D was not acting as a front for Mr A, 
as alleged by Mr R. I am satisfied that the advice was given by Mr D as a representative of 
TenetLime, and this is borne out by the documents completed at the point of sale. The 
application appears to me to be perfectly above board, with independent advice being given 
to Mr R by Mr D. The allegation that Mr D was fronting the application on behalf of Mr A 
simply does not stand up to scrutiny. I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
In 2022 a DSAR request was made, which TenetLime referred to Mr D. I understand that this 
was originally sent to the address Mr D had on file for Mr R (which was Mr Rs previous 
address) and was returned as undelivered. It was re-sent to the correct address and 
received by Mr R, albeit out of time.
Whilst the DSAR wasnt sent within the required timescales, it was eventually received by 
Mr R. In the circumstances, Im satisfied theres been no loss or detriment to Mr R by the 
delay in the DSAR. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr R wanted. If he decides not to accept my decision, he will be 
free to pursue his grievances against TenetLime in court, should he wish to do so. Unlike our 
service, a court has the power to take evidence under oath, and Mr R would be free to cross-
examine witnesses. I would suggest Mr R takes legal advice from a solicitor before deciding 
to embark on any legal action.If Mr R remains unhappy about the length of time taken to receive the DSAR, he is free to 
refer this to the Information Commissioners Office, which is the more appropriate body to 
deal with complaints about DSARs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman