DRN-2342085
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging her fees for payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claims she said she didnt authorise them to make. 
What happened
With the approach of the August 2019 deadline for making PPI claims, Ms B said shed 
looked into a number of companies about pursuing a claim. But shed hadnt signed up to 
any. So was surprised when asked by Allay to pay a fee for successful PPI claims. 
Ms B said shed submitted the PPI claim direct to her lender, Ill call L herself. And Allay 
hadnt shown her a copy of the document pack they said shed signed when she had asked 
for it several times. She said theyd also sent inaccurate information to her lender which had 
caused her to miss the opportunity of pursuing PPI on her previous addresses. She 
complained to Allay.
Allay said Ms B had asked them to carry out a free PPI check in August 2019, and shed 
signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising them to act on her behalf to make her claim. 
Allay said theyd submitted her claim to lender L. And theyd told them in November 2019 
that theyd found PPI. Allay had passed on this information to Ms B. During the call Ms B had 
said shed been in touch with lender L herself, but the call was terminated before any 
cancellation process could be completed. Allay said they asked Ms B to contact them if she 
wanted to cancel her claim. As she didnt get in touch they had continued with her claim. In 
February  2020 Ms Bs lender told Allay her claim was successful and as their agreement 
with Ms B hadnt been cancelled, theyd asked her to pay their success fee. 
Ms B wasnt happy with Allays response and referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Allays terms were clear in that they said theyd submit a PPI claim. He 
said Allay had shown theyd told Ms B when theyd found she had PPI. And as Ms Bs claim 
was successful, Allay could claim their success fee.
Ms B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Ms Bs frustration as she doesnt agree that shed asked Allay to look into 
whether she had any PPI. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I 
base my decision on what I think most likely happened. And it isnt our role to consider 
whether there has been fraudulent activity that would be for a criminal court to decide. Were 
an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. In making my 
decision I need to determine whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions 
with Ms B. And whether Ms B had authorised Allay to act on her behalf. And if she had, 
whether she let Allay know she no longer wanted them to work for her. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in August 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with personal and contact details Ms B has given 
this service. The application also had the details of Ms Bs lender, L. As the details were 
specific to Ms B Ive no reason to doubt that she completed the on line application. And Ms B 
isnt disputing that shed completed several forms about PPI around this time. 
Ive noted Ms B has said two of the addresses were incorrect, I can see that the road name 
was correct it was the number of each address that differed. And given the passage of time, 
when she lived at these addresses, 1985 and 1995, I think this was more likely to have been 
an oversight by Ms B in remembering the precise details when completing the form. So, on 
balance I think  Ms B completed the on-line form as the information was specific to her and 
Allay acted on the information shed given. 
On completion of the application, an LoA was generated, and populated with this 
information. The LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature being added. As I think Ms B 
completed the application, I have no reason to doubt that she added the signature to the 
form. Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Ms B 
had agreed to them. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
I can see Allay sent a request to Ms Bs lender shortly after the on-line PPI application was 
completed to determine whether Ms B had a PPI policy with them. In November 2019 lender 
L told Allay theyd found that Ms B had been sold PPI.   
Allay asked Ms B to complete a PPI questionnaire to help strengthen her case. During this 
call Ms B said shed made a claim directly with lender L and didnt want to pursue the claim 
with Allay. But the call was terminated before the cancellation process was done. Allay said 
they tried to call again to discuss but again the call was terminated.
The terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. 
Allays records show a text message was sent to Ms B, the same day to ask her to confirm if 
she wanted to cancel her agreement with them. And advised Ms B she had till 4 December 
2019 to cancel the agreement within the 14 day cooling off period. 
The terms and conditions went on to say:
To cancel your contract with us, either call Customer Services on 0191 462 0000,
email your cancellation request to cancellations@allay.co.uk, download a Cancellation Form 
from our website www.allay.co.uk or write to us at The Processing Centre,
Trafalgar Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 2LA.So, if Ms B hadnt wanted to speak to Allay she had other options for cancelling the 
agreement . But Ive not seen any evidence to show Ms B did any of these. And I dont think 
its enough that Ms B simply disengaged from the process. By not telling Allay she didnt 
want them to act on her behalf before the end of the 14 day cooling off period, theyd 
submitted her claim to her lender. 
Ms B has said she made her claim directly with lender L. But in February 2020 lender L 
told both Ms B and Allay that her claim was successful. Ms Bs notification clearly has an 
Allay reference. I can also see that Ms B has said she was unsure whether she had 
contacted L or if L had been contacted by Allay. She also said shed spoken to lender L 
after shed received their cheque which I simply wasn't expecting. As I havent seen any 
evidence to show Ms B directly made a claim with lender L before her claim was 
successful, and lender L had accepted Allay as Ms Bs representative. Im satisfied Allay 
submitted the claim as theyd been authorised to act on Ms Bs behalf. 
The agreement Ms B had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Im satisfied Allay 
submitted Ms Bs claim as their agreement hadnt been cancelled. And her claim was 
successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Ms B agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. Ms B could have cancelled her claim with Allay. But I cant see she 
cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
Ms B has questioned the amount of compensation she received, and I can see Allay 
explained that their fee was taken from the gross amount of compensation before any 
income tax was removed. Ive checked their terms and conditions which clearly say:
This fee is calculated before any applicable tax payment/deduction for which you are liable 
(gross amount).
Ms B has also questioned her expectation of receiving a document pack from Allay about 
her claim. As Allay has explained with the approach of the August deadline to ensure claims 
were submitted in time the digital claim was accepted without the need for hard copies. I 
think this is a reasonable explanation. 
I know Ms B will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by Ms B to act on her behalf and her claim was successful. This means Allay can charge 
their success fee. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman