DRN-2532145
The complaint
Ms S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money removed her promotional 
interest rate before it was due to end and didnt tell her. 
What happened
Ms S opened a Virgin Money credit card with a 0% balance transfer promotional interest 
rate. It was due to expire in May 2021. 
Due to issues with a direct debit collection on 7 July 2019, Ms Ss monthly payment wasnt 
received and the promotional rate ended because the account terms and conditions relating 
to the promotional rate werent met.
Ms S spoke to Virgin Money to reinstate her direct debit as there had been issues in two 
consecutive months. She then continued making her monthly payments.
Ms S received correspondence from Virgin Money in late 2020 about balance transfer rates 
changing and different rates being available. As she was under the impression she was on a 
0% promotional rate she contacted them. Virgin Money informed her that the promotional 
rate had ended when her payment due on 7 July 2019 hadnt been received.
Ms S complained to Virgin Money about this. She said she hadnt been told the promotional 
rate had ended and therefore any interest or charges during this period should be refunded. 
Virgin Money did not uphold her complaint as they said she would have been able to view 
her statements in the app or online to see what had happened. They maintained that they 
had dealt with her account in line with the terms and conditions.
Ms S brought her complaint to our service. In her complaint she also said she had some 
issues logging into the app. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said Ms Ss 
monthly statements had set out what would happen to her promotional rate if she missed a 
payment and what the interest charges were. The investigator also felt that Ms S could have 
reasonably raised any issues with the app with Virgin Money at the time. But she didnt do 
so. Ms S asked the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. In summary, she said   
promotional materials were misleading, she should have been told her rate had been 
withdrawn when shed called to resolve her payment issue and a recent change in her   
circumstances hadnt been considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the application screenshots for when Ms S applied for the credit card and 
statements prior to the promotional rate being removed. The documents are clear that if the 
payment is not made on time, Virgin Money would remove the promotional rate and this is 
what happened here. This is repeated in the account terms and conditions and her monthly 
statements. This is what Ms S agreed to when she took out the card. So Virgin were entitled 
to remove the rate.
Ive also considered whether the telephone agent Ms S spoken to should have highlighted 
that the promotional rate had been withdrawn, but I dont think it was unreasonable for them 
not to mention it as the call was about reinstating the payment method (and not the rate).
Ms S mentioned she had problems with the app and used it less often after this. While I can 
understand her frustration regarding this issue, I have to consider whether Virgin Money did 
something wrong. As there is no record of Ms S raising any concerns about this with Virgin 
Money, I dont think I can say they did something wrong.  Because they couldnt have 
assisted her if they didnt know she was having a problem with using the app. 
Ms S has said she thought there was misleading information sent to her regarding 
promotional rates which prompted her to contact Virgin Money. This is when she discovered 
the promotional interest rate had already ended. It is not clear why this information was sent 
but I dont think it played a role in what happened. The missed payment in July 2019 led to 
the rate being removed.
 
Ultimately, I dont think Virgin Money have made a mistake in removing the promotional rate. 
They sent Ms Ss her statements, which clearly set out the consequences of not making a 
payment by the due date and these notified her of the interest that was being charged.  So 
considering all of this, Im not persuaded Virgin Money have treated her unfairly.
  
I understand Ms Ss personal circumstances have changed and that she prioritised her credit 
card payment over other outgoings, believing she was still on the promotional rate. Of 
course, any payments will have helped to reduce the balance but if Ms S believes her 
situation will affect her ability to make repayments, she should contact Virgin Moneys 
specialist team to see what it can do to help. But given the above, I dont think I can require 
them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman