DRN-2323605
The complaint
Mrs O complains that a car she took under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. She says that, as a result, shes been unable to 
use it for more than a year.
What happened
In October 2017 Mrs O took a car on hire purchase. It had first been registered in December 
2016 and had a recorded mileage of around 9,800. The cash price was just under £18,000.
In or about April 2018 the car began to develop problems, including faults with the steering 
column and oil filter. These were repaired by the dealership, at no cost to Mrs F. In or about 
September 2018 there were problems with the handbrake; again, the dealership carried out 
repairs. At about the same time, the parking sensors were replaced and it was identified that 
the battery charge was low, and so it was charged. Mrs O said at the time that the boot lid 
would sometimes open by itself.
Some months later, in about July 2019, Mrs O said that the car started juddering while she 
was driving it. She didnt feel it was safe and obtained a statutory off-road notice for it. She 
says she hasnt driven it since. She contacted Blue Motor Finance, which arranged an 
inspection by a vehicle inspection firm, S.
Ss engineer inspected the car at Mrs Os home in August 2019. His report noted that his 
instructions were that the engine was juddering, the parking sensors werent working and the 
boot lid was opening by itself. It said that, based on a visual inspection, the car was in 
average condition for its age. It was however impossible to start it, even using jump leads.
He wasnt therefore able to address the specific problems that Mrs O had reported and 
recommended further investigation under workshop conditions. He concluded however that 
the issue with the battery (whatever the underlying cause) could not have been present at 
the point of delivery.
Blue Motor Finance concluded that the car had been of satisfactory quality at the point of 
delivery to Mrs F and didnt believe it was under any duty to put things right. Mrs O 
disagreed and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator concluded that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the time of 
delivery. A number of faults had developed, and some of those remained. She 
recommended that Blue Motor Finance collect the car, refund the £5,000 deposit and all 
payments Mrs F had made since July 2019. It should also pay Mrs F £300 in recognition of 
the inconvenience to which shed been put.
Blue Motor Finance didnt accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision, broadly agreeing with the investigators 
recommendations, but for reasons which differed in some respects. I said that, whilst a car 
that was nearly three years old with a mileage of around 30,000 might be expected to 
develop some faults, the problems Mrs O had reported were sufficiently serious that she felt 
she had to take the car off the road. I would have expected Blue Motor Finance to have 
established what the fault was before concluding that the car was of satisfactory quality. Ss 
engineer had recommended further investigation, but Blue Motor Finance hadnt followed up 
on that recommendation. Had it done so, it might have been possible to establish the cause 
of the problems and resolve them. 
Blue Motor Finance didnt accept my provisional conclusions. It said that, as the fault Mrs O 
had reported in July 2019 had arisen more than six months after she had taken possession 
of the car, it was for her to prove that it had been present at the time of delivery. She hadnt 
done so. It said too that, between the last repair and Mrs Os current complaint, she had had 
some 10 months of use of the car and travelled a further 15,000 miles. In addition, there was 
no evidence that Mrs O had had the car serviced as required by the hire purchase 
agreement.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor Finance says that, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the burden of proof is 
on Mrs O to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of delivery. She 
hasnt, it says, discharged that burden. Im required by law and by our rules to take into 
account any relevant law, and Ive done so here.
Section 19(14) of the Act says that goods which dont conform to the contract at any time 
within six months of delivery must be taken not to have conformed at delivery; section 19(15) 
makes an exception where it can be shown that they did in fact conform. In court, its a 
general rule of evidence that the person who alleges something must prove it, so that part of 
the Act is an exception to that rule. The ombudsman service isnt however a court, and Im 
not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court would be. Our own rules say expressly, 
for example, that we may exclude evidence that would be admissible in court and include 
evidence that would not be admissible. As I indicated in my provisional decision, I accept 
Mrs Os evidence that the engine was shuddering to such an extent that she felt the car was 
unsafe to drive. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 also includes provisions about the remedies available to 
consumers when goods are not of satisfactory quality. Where a fault is identified more than 
30 days after delivery of goods, the supplier should usually be given an opportunity to carry 
out repairs. A consumer cant generally reject goods if successful repairs have been carried 
out. I note that repairs have been carried out on a number of occasions in this case, and 
have resolved other issues with the car. 
I am however required to reach my decision on the basis of what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, the fact that Mrs O had had to have the car 
repaired on several occasions within less than two years and that some of those repairs 
have been needed because of quite serious faults is something that I need to take into 
account  even though the repairs were successful. 
Putting things right
Mrs O now has a car which she feels she cant use and which has had a number of repairs 
during the period when she could use it. In my view it would be fair to allow her to return it 
without penalty. My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Mrs Os complaint, Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd should:
collect the car at no cost to Mrs O;
refund the £5,000 deposit with interest at 8% a year simple from the date of 
the agreement to the date of the refund;
refund all payments made by Mrs O on or after 1 July 2019, together with interest at 
8% a year simple from the date of payment until the date of the refund;
pay Mrs O £300 in recognition of the inconvenience to which shes been put; and
remove and adverse credit information it may have placed against Mrs Os name.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman