DRN-2303914
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that an equity release mortgage was mis-sold to them by 
Sixty Plus Ltd. Mr M, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that Sixty Plus never 
explained to them how the early repayment charge (ERC) worked. Mr and Mrs M are asking 
Sixty Plus to compensate them for the cost of the ERC charged by the lender when they 
repaid the equity release mortgage..
(In this regard, I note that Mr M refers to both the ERC and the Benchmark, when hes 
talking about the amount charged by the lender, but it is in fact an ERC; the Benchmark is 
part of the way in which the ERC is calculated.)
What happened
In January 2016 Mr and Mrs M took advice from Sixty Plus about an equity release 
mortgage. Mr M was aged 73 and Mrs M was aged 66. They were accompanied at the 
meeting by their own independent IFA, Mr H.
At that time Mr and Mrs M had an interest-only mortgage of £49,000 and which was 
repayable in full in 2018. The fact-find records that Mr and Mrs M also had loans connected 
with commercial properties, as well as unsecured debts of £16,000. It was noted that Mr M 
wanted to retire and wanted to clear his debts. In total Mr and Mrs M wanted to borrow 
£107,500, which included an additional £2,500 for their own use.
Mr and Mrs M wanted a mortgage that allowed them to make repayments. In a report dated 
1 February 2016 Sixty Plus recommended an equity release mortgage with one of the major 
providers. This allowed repayment of up to 10% of the initial loan amount each year without 
any ERC. Up to four payments could be made each year, with a minimum payment of £500. 
The adviser suggested Mr and Mrs M set up a standing order to a savings account and then 
make a lump sum payment each year.
Page ten of the report sets out, in bold type, risk warnings. One of these is about the ERC. It 
says:  
This loan carries Early Repayment Charges for 22 years. The charge is guaranteed 
never to be greater than 25% of the initial advance, and is based upon the UK FTSE 
15 Year Gilt Index. The charge will greater if there is a fall in the index before you 
repay all or part of the loan. Based upon the advance the maximum penalty would be 
£27,000, plus a closing administration fee of £125. Please see Section 13 of the Key 
Facts Illustration (KFI) for various examples.
Section 13 of the KFI has a detailed explanation of how the ERC will operate. This includes 
the following: 
The Early Repayment Charge will reflect any change in the interest rates on 
government borrowing or gilts. This will be measured using the FTSE UK Gilts 15 
Year Yield Index (the Index) which is published daily in the Financial Times.
If the Index is lower than the Benchmark Rate for your loan then an Early Repayment 
Charge will be payable. The lower the Index falls the higher the repayment costs will 
be.
No Early Repayment Charge will be payable if the Index is higher than the 
Benchmark Rate.
The Benchmark Rate for your loan will be shown in your lifetime mortgage offer. It 
will be 0.3% higher than the Index is currently to cover mortgage set up costs and 
transaction costs incurred in reinvesting the money.
At the time you decide to repay this lifetime mortgage in part or in full, an Early 
Repayment Charge will be calculated by multiplying (A) x (B) x (C) below:
A. The amount that you repay including all interest and charges.
B. The number of years remaining until you or the younger of you reaches age 88.
C. The difference between the Benchmark Rate for your mortgage and the Index at 
the date of repayment.
The KFI also sets out various examples of when an ERC will not be payable, one of which is:
when the Index is higher than or equal to the Benchmark Rate detailed in your 
lifetime mortgage offer.
The mortgage offer showed the fixed rate applicable to the advance of £107,500 to be 
5.07% and the Benchmark Rate to be 2.44%.
The mortgage completed on 23 February 2016.
In August 2019 Mr M raised a complaint with the mortgage provider. He said that the reason 
he took out more than his existing mortgage was because he owed his bank £49,000 for 
some commercial premises he owned. He decided to pay off his bank borrowings as well as 
his mortgage, and then use the rents from his commercial premises to pay the interest on 
the mortgage, through the annual lump sum payment provision. 
Mr M said  I appreciate we would be locked in for a period of time and that I could pay 
back between 5% and 10% but not aware that I could not pay back more than that amount 
without being penalised
Mr M explained that hed been able to sell his commercial premises for £115,000, and hed 
then discovered that a building society was now offering three types of retirement mortgages 
at a lower interest rate than his current equity release mortgage. Mr M says he was shocked 
to learn that if he repaid the mortgage, there would be an ERC of just over £18,000. He said 
Now I feel we are locked into something we just cant get out of and that wouldnt happen 
with a normal mortgage, I just wish I had looked into it further..
The mortgage provider didnt uphold the complaint, although its final response letter appears 
to address only the partial repayments that are allowed, rather than the ERC.
In January 2020 Mr M complained to Sixty Plus, saying he had learned that if he repaid the 
mortgage hed have to pay an ERC. Mr M says this is scandalous and that this had never 
been fully explained. Mr M said it had been made clear what his intentions were when he 
sold his commercial premises  which was that he intended to repay the mortgage early.Sixty Plus didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mr and Mrs M had never mentioned 
repaying the mortgage in full; instead theyd wanted the facility to make repayments from 
income to stop excessive roll-up of interest. Sixty Plus also said that the KFI and mortgage 
offer set out in detail the ERC, and also referred to the suitability report dated 1 February 
2016 and the information contained in that about the ERC. Finally, Sixty Plus said that 
Mr and Mrs M had been given independent legal advice and that the solicitors would have 
gone through the ERC with Mr and Mrs M, both in writing and in a face-to-face meeting.
Mr M replied to say that there had been no mention at all of the Benchmark by Sixty Plus 
and that this should have been properly explained. Mr M also said that hed never met the 
solicitors as there had been no face-to-face meeting.
Mr M raised his complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at 
the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied that the ERC had been 
fully detailed in the documentation provided to Mr and Mrs M before they applied for the 
mortgage and in the mortgage offer.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He said (and I summarise):
the equity release mortgage was not fit for purpose and not suitable for their needs as 
they always had every intention to pay it off early;
at the initial meeting with Sixty Plus  at which their own IFA was present  they made it 
quite clear that their intention was not to keep this equity release mortgage but that they 
always intended to pay it off when their commercial premises were sold. Because the 
market was poor at the time, there was no time frame for this;
at no time were they told by Sixty Plus about ERCs;
they were offered no other mortgage than the one they took out;
its not true that they had a face-to-face meeting with their solicitors. They only had a few 
letters;
two years after taking the mortgage they were able to sell their commercial premises so 
asked the mortgage provider about making an early settlement. This was the first time 
they learned that an ERC would be payable;
theyve been badly advised, as theyve had to use all their savings to clear the equity 
release (over £135,000, including the ERC) and have now taken out a retirement 
mortgage with a building society.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs M say that at no point did Sixty Plus ever 
mention to them that if they repaid this mortgage early, they would have to pay an ERC. 
They also say that they made it clear  in the presence of their own IFA  that their intention 
was always to repay this mortgage within the near future, once they sold their commercial 
premises.I will deal with the issue of the SHIP (Safe Home Income Plan) certificate first. Mr and Mrs M 
say they never saw the solicitors and only had advice in writing. They say they werent told 
about the ERC by the solicitors.
The SHIP certificate was provided to Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors by the lender, as it was part 
of the process of putting the mortgage into place. It was nothing to do with Sixty Plus, who 
would not have seen the certificate (and didnt need to). 
All equity release providers who subscribe to SHIP (now known as the Equity Release 
Council) require borrowers to have independent legal advice about the mortgage. The 
mortgage will not be completed by the lender until the solicitors have returned the signed 
SHIP certificate confirming advice has been given.
Initially Mr and Mrs M instructed their solicitors not to release the SHIP certificate to Sixty 
Plus when our investigator asked for a copy of it. Mr and Mrs M have now provided it. The 
certificate says that there had been a face-to-face meeting when the terms and implications 
of the mortgage were explained. Mr and Mrs M signed this certificate to confirm theyd been 
advised about the terms and conditions of the mortgage.
Mr M emphatically denies there was any meeting and says he was not told about the word 
Benchmark. But as Ive said above, Mr M is confusing the ERC with the Benchmark (which, 
as Ive already said, is part of the way the ERC is calculated).  Id expect the solicitors to 
have explained the ERC. But in any event, what the solicitors did or did not do has no 
bearing on the mortgage advice given by Sixty Plus. If Mr M considers there were 
irregularities in relation to the advice given to him by his solicitors, hell need to take that up 
with the Solicitors Regulation Authority or the Legal Ombudsman.
Turning now to the part of the complaint which does relate to Sixty Plus, my findings are as 
follows.
Im satisfied the documentation provided by Sixty Plus  the KFI and the suitability report  
set out in some detail that there may be an ERC to pay, the circumstances in which this 
could apply and how it would be calculated. Given this, I dont agree with Mr M that this was 
information that was withheld by Sixty Plus. Mr M says that his IFA, Mr H, who was at the 
meeting, has confirmed that the ERC was never discussed, but I dont have any statement 
from Mr H, so this cannot be verified.
Sixty Plus has provided a printout of the various available mortgage options it sourced for 
Mr and Mrs M and from which the recommended mortgage was selected. Mr M says that he 
and Mrs M were given no other options to choose from. But Sixty Pluss role was to advise 
on the most suitable mortgage, based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs M, and Im 
satisfied this is what happened.
Mr M also says that he made it clear at the initial meeting with Sixty Plus and Mr H that the 
intention was always to repay this mortgage within the near future when the commercial 
premises were sold.
There are several reasons why I am not persuaded by what Mr M has said.
First, this isnt recorded anywhere in the fact-find. I think it is unlikely that such important 
information was omitted, if in fact it is what had been discussed.
At the start the suitability report says:  You should check carefully that the information is 
correct and note any revisions which need to be made due to a change in your 
circumstances before making any decision to proceed. It is important to ensure you have understood the issues and any risks involved, please also check any assumptions I have 
made are correct.  
Pages 3-6 set out the details recorded by Sixty Plus of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, 
needs and wishes. There is no mention in there of any plan to sell the commercial premises 
and repay the equity release mortgage in the short-term. Instead the report records that 
Mr and Mrs M intended to pay off their commercial loan so they could have the full benefit of 
the rental income.
Here I note that Mr and Mrs M did not contact Sixty Plus after receiving the suitability report 
to say that the advisers understanding of their situation was incorrect. 
An important point is that Mr and Mrs M were recommended to Sixty Plus by their own IFA, 
Mr H, who attended the meeting with them. Equity release mortgages can only be sold by 
accredited advisers, so once Mr H had identified that equity release might be the solution to 
Mr and Mrs Ms need to raise funds, he was correct to recommend them to a specialist 
adviser. Mr H has not provided any evidence in this case.
But even though Mr H wasnt an equity release adviser, I think its likely he would probably 
have been aware that these are long-term products not intended to be repaid within a couple 
of years of taking them out, because of the potential for ERCs. This is not esoteric 
information which only equity release advisers would know. 
Given this, I think its unlikely that, if Mr H had known Mr and Mrs M were intending to repay 
the mortgage within a few years, hed have recommended they see an equity release 
adviser. He was present at the meeting when Sixty Plus discussed the mortgage. So if Sixty 
Pluss understanding of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances had been incorrect, or if they hadnt 
explained themselves clearly, Mr H would have had the opportunity to clarify any 
misunderstanding.
Overall, the available evidence doesnt persuade me that Mr and Mrs M told Sixty Plus that 
they intended to repay the mortgage within a short period of time. I think if they had done so 
it would have been explained to them that an equity release mortgage wasnt the most 
suitable option for them.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M were hoping for, and I know they will be 
disappointed. But after careful consideration of all the evidence, Im unable to find that Sixty 
Plus has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman