DRN-3077004
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by LEBC Group Limited, trading as The Retirement 
Adviser (LEBC) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. 
Mr W used the transfer proceeds to purchase an annuity and take some tax-free cash. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W approached LEBC in early 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
LEBC completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. LEBC also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, it was 
established Mr W didnt want to take a risk with his pension planning. 
On March 2018, LEBC advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension. He received immediate tax-free cash of £96,768.50 and he purchased an annuity 
that provided an annual income of £12,741.96. This was a single life annuity that wouldnt 
increase, or decrease, in value. 
The suitability report said that Mr W wanted to access his benefits immediately. This was 
because he wanted: 
To access some tax-free cash so he could purchase a canal barge for £50,000, and 
have some funds left over to refurbish and maintain this.
To retire and provide a guaranteed income for the remainder of his life.
Some funds left over for emergencies and any other spending he may need.    
Mr W complained in 2020 to LEBC about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that:
He was not adequately informed about the benefits that he would be giving up from 
his DB scheme if he made the transfer. He lost the guaranteed pension from the DB 
scheme. 
Whilst Mr W wasnt working, and didnt intend to work in the future, he was in a 
comfortable position financially and he didnt need to transfer his DB scheme 
benefits. 
He says the advice process took place mainly over the telephone and he would have 
benefitted from some face to face meetings. 
Overall, Mr W thinks the advice was negligent and he has suffered a loss as a result 
of it. 
LEBC didnt issue a final response to the complaint, it says this was due to an administrative 
error. It later said that it didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. This was because:
At the time of advice Mr W was 55, unemployed, and he had no income.
He wanted to access his tax-free cash and take a pension straight away to support 
himself and meet his longer term aims.   
A full fact find was completed, and a great deal of research was done at the time, the 
recommendation that LEBC made was suitable for him. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said the pension transfer met Mr Ws objectives at the time. It allowed him to meet his need 
for cash and a risk free income for the remainder of his life. Taking his benefits from the DB 
scheme either at age 55, or later, wouldnt have allowed him to meet his objectives. He said 
the option Mr W chose was the best for him, given his needs and circumstances. 
Mr W disagreed, saying that he did have the means not to transfer immediately and he could 
have considered his options further. For example, he could have returned to work in the near 
future. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, LEBC should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
LEBC completed a fact find at the time of sale. This was a document that recorded 
information about Mr Ws circumstances, needs and objectives at this time. The fact find 
wasnt signed but the information that LEBC recorded about Mr W was reproduced in the 
suitability letter that Mr W saw. 
This point of sale documentation showed that Mr W wanted to retire early, at age 55, and he 
needed access to a lump sum of at least £50,000, plus some further funds. And Mr W 
wanted a guaranteed income. This is so he could retire and purchase a canal barge to live 
on. He also needed money to potentially refurbish and or repair the barge. This would 
reduce his living costs and allow him to retire straight away.  
Did transferring the scheme benefits, and taking an annuity, meet Mr Ws needs
The maximum tax-free cash available to Mr W at 55 when he transferred to a personal 
pension was £96,768.50. He did take this. So, I think transferring out of the DB scheme gave 
him the immediate money he wanted. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied the income from the transfer also met 
Mr Ws needs in retirement. The £12,741.96 income was slightly less than the £1,200 a 
month Mr W was recorded as spending at the time. But it was expected that his expenditure 
would fall significantly in the near future. I dont think the advice was unsuitable for this 
reason. 
So, I think the transfer, and annuity purchase, met Mr Ws recorded needs for income and 
tax-free cash.
Could Mr W have met his aims from the DB scheme at age 55.
Mr W wanted at least £50,000 tax-free cash in order to retire immediately. But he was only 
able to take £38,039.80 as tax-free cash from the DB scheme at age 55. And Mr W didnt 
have any savings, or other means, that he couldve used to meet his need for cash at the 
time. So, the tax-free cash he needed to retire at age 55 wasnt available from the DB 
scheme. 
Mr W was spending around £1,200 per month. If he took benefits from the DB scheme at 55, 
he would be entitled to an annual income of £6,810.57 if he didnt take any tax-free cash. Or 
an annual income of £5,705.97 if he took the maximum tax-free cash.  I dont think this 
would have met Mr Ws needs at the time of sale. I think he had a need for a higher income 
than this up to his state pension age. 
In summary taking the maximum tax-free cash from the DB scheme meant he would be left 
with too little income. And the tax-free cash wasnt enough for him to purchase the canal 
barge and reduce his income. So, I dont think it was realistic that he take the benefits from 
his DB scheme early. This is the case, even if I take into account that the income from the 
DB scheme would be increasing.
So, I dont think Mr W could have achieved what he wanted by taking the benefits from the 
DB scheme straight away. And he was able to secure a higher income and tax-free cash 
elsewhere. 
Could Mr W have not transferred the benefits from his DB scheme and taken them at a later 
date.  
I dont disagree that Mr W may have been able to continue to work. And by doing this he 
could maximise the income he received from the DB scheme at, for example, age 65. 
Thinking about the financial aspects of this, Mr W could have taken tax-free cash of £79,718 
and an annual income of £11,950, this income would be increasing. But this is a lower tax-
free cash and initial income, than Mr W did realise at age 55. So, he would need to live a 
reasonably long time to realise a higher total benefit than the tax-free cash and income he 
received from age 55 as a result of the transfer.  
Or Mr W could not have taken any tax-free cash. If he did this then he could have received 
an increasing income which started at £16,222.09. This is a higher income amount that he 
received at age 55. But to obtain this Mr W would have to retire 10 years later. And doing 
this would give up the almost £100,000 of tax-free cash that he took at age 55. And the 
income he will have received between ages 55 and 65. This is a significant amount to 
forego. 
So, whilst it isnt clear cut, Im not persuaded taking his benefits from the DB scheme later on 
would be in Mr Ws best interests financially. And perhaps more importantly, making the transfer allowed Mr W to meet all of his recorded 
aims and effectively retire. Its not clear to me why he would want to delay this given the 
options he had.  
The financial viability of the transfer. 
LEBC did look at whether the transfer was financially viable. Although this analysis isnt 
really relevant to the advice as Mr W took the benefits from the transfer straight away. So, 
the prospect of whether the transfer could exceed the DB scheme benefits at a later date 
didnt need to be looked at. 
But its worth noting that the transfer value needed to grow at 3.9% a year, if Mr W took tax-
free cash, or 2.5% if he didnt, for it to match the DB scheme benefits. For comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and 
the lower projection rate was 2% per year. 
And the point of sale information showed that the estimated cost of replicating Mr Ws DB 
benefits, (including all future increases and benefits payable in the event of his death) was 
£273,040. The transfer value of £387,909 was significantly higher than this.
So, its not unreasonable to say there was a good chance the transfer would meet or exceed 
the scheme benefits in any event. 
Overall, I think Mr Ws options were fairly presented to him. And he was given advice, that 
he chose to proceed with, that met his stated objectives. Whilst there were advantages and 
disadvantages to all of the courses of action he could have taken. I think the advice was 
reasonable and was in his best interests overall. Given what he wanted to do. I think it was 
suitable for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman