DRN-3835593
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited is unfairly pursuing him for a debt. 
What happened
Capquest was instructed by another business (A) to collect a debt on its behalf. A says that 
in August 2019 it purchased a hire purchase debt in Mr Zs name from the original lender. 
Capquest went on to contact Mr Z about repayment of what it says is the outstanding 
balance. 
Mr Z requested a copy of the signed credit agreement from Capquest. A copy was provided 
and forwarded to Mr Z, but its not signed. The information provided includes a copy of the 
credit agreement, application information and a snapshot of Mr Zs credit file at the point he 
applied for the hire purchase. 
Mr Z complained that Capquest was harassing him for repayment and that it had been 
unable to provide a signed copy of the original credit agreement. Capquest didnt uphold Mr 
Zs complaint and said it had provided a copy of the credit agreement as forwarded by A. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Zs complaint. They thought Capquest had dealt 
with Mr Zs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr Z asked to appeal and said 
the original lender had gone into administration shortly after it had confirmed the outstanding 
balance was repaid in full. As Mr Z asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Zs told us hes felt harassed by Capquest and that hes concerned no actual signed copy 
of the original credit agreement exists. I understand why Mr Zs asked Capquest for a copy 
of the credit agreement. And the copy provided is unsigned. But, the information provided is 
reasonably comprehensive and contains a lot of identifying information about Mr Z. 
This includes his address and personal details (which match those we have on file for Mr Z). 
In addition, we have a section of Mr Zs credit file and the completed application. I note that 
in his discussions with our investigator, Mr Z hasnt denied purchasing the vehicle via 
finance with the original lender. Mr Zs concerns have focused on whether a signed copy of 
the credit agreement is available. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr Z as I understand why he wants to see a signed copy of the 
original credit agreement. But Im satisfied theres sufficient information on file that shows he 
was party to the credit agreement in question. As Capquest is seeking to recover a debt that 
was purchased from the original lender by A, I havent been persuaded it acted unfairly by 
contacting Mr Z to talk about repayment. I havent found anything that shows Capquest has 
harassed Mr Z or treated him unfairly. 
Mr Z told our investigator that the original lender had advised the balance was repaid in full. 
But the original lender has forwarded copies of default notices and arrears letters going back 
to 2016 that show the account was behind for some time. The information on file shows 
there was a balance at the point the account was closed at default in 2019. 
Should Mr Z have statements or evidence that shows he repaid the balance in full with the 
original lender, he has the option of forwarding it to Capquest or A. Id expect that to be 
taken into account. But without any evidence that shows Mr Z repaid the outstanding 
balance, Im unable to agree Capquests acted unfairly or harassed him for payment. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr Z but as Im satisfied Capquest dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take further action.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman