DRN-3753922
The complaint
Mrs M complains about a three year bond issued by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc) she 
invested into. She says the bond was mis-sold to her, and that she was misled into thinking it 
was safe (in particular that it had a regulated status and Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) protection). Mrs M also says the bond was mismanaged, as the money 
invested into it was all lent to one pay day lender, rather than being diversified as she was 
led to believe it would be.
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs M invested in a B&G Plc Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond (3 years). Sales of this bond 
were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the 
issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a 
website it operated - bassetgold.co.uk. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the 
bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. BG Ltds online application process took steps to meet the obligations created by 
these rules. I have set out details of the application process below and will set out, and 
consider, the relevant rules in my findings.
Neither B&G Plc nor BG Ltd was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its 
own right at the time of Mrs Ms investment. But both were appointed representatives of 
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium), which was an FCA authorised business.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 
28 February 2018. As such, Gallium is responsible for a complaint about either business 
which is about the acts and omissions which took place during this time, for which Gallium 
accepted responsibility.
Gallium also played a role in relation to the bond in its own right  it was responsible for 
approving BG Ltds marketing and promotional material relating to the bond. Gallium has 
confirmed that the promotional material included the Invitation Document (which was the 
formal financial promotion document for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000), bassetgold.co.uk, and online advertising material (such as Google 
and Facebook adverts) issued by BG Ltd.
Mrs M has, at times, been represented by her husband. However, for simplicity, I will refer 
only to Mrs M in this decision and any such reference should be taken to mean Mrs M or   Mr 
M acting on her behalf. Similarly, I will refer to Gallium throughout and any such reference 
should be taken to mean Gallium or its legal representative.
Mrs Ms investment in the bond
Mrs M visited bassetgold.co.uk in November 2017, after she searched online to find a 
product which would provide a monthly income to supplement her pension. She says she 
then made contact with BG Ltd and spoke to someone who became her dedicated 
relationship manager. After Mrs M spoke with the relationship manager, she says she was 
sent a pack, which included a three-page Terms and Conditions document and a paper 
application form.
When making her complaint Mrs M has referred to two parts of the Terms and Conditions:
1.2 ..Basset Gold treats investors as Retail Clients for the purposes of the FCAs rules 
(retail clients receive the highest degree of regulatory protections under those rules)
9.3 Gallium participates in the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (the FSCS). If 
we or Gallium owe you money in connection with the Basset Gold Service and are unable to 
pay it, then you may be entitled to compensation from the FSCS, up to a maximum of 
£50,000.
Mrs M completed the online application form on bassetgold.co.uk. She applied to invest 
£5,000 in the bond and sent a cheque for that amount to BG Ltd on the same day - 20 
November 2017. The bond Mrs M invested in offered an interest rate of 6.22% or 6.12% per 
year (it is not clear which, as the online application Mrs M completed said 6.22% but the 
bond certificate she was issued after the investment was made said 6.12%), payable 
monthly, with the invested capital to be returned after 3 years.
When Mrs M referred her complaint to us we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with copies of call recordings from immediately after the investment 
in the bond was made, and later, but we have not been provided with recordings of any 
conversations Mrs M had with BG Ltd before or during the bond application.
Mrs M says she wanted an investment that would provide a monthly income to supplement 
her pension and was assured by BG Ltds website and her discussions with the relationship 
manager that the bond was suitable for this purpose. She invested around half of the tax free 
lump sum she had received from her pension.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. That email included the 
following:
To date the vast majority of lending has been to an FCA regulated lender that currently 
holds approximately 36,000 consumer loans. We are happy with the way that investment is 
performing, and the underlying spread of loans across tens of thousands of borrowers 
provides strong levels of predictability and resilience.
As Basset & Gold Plc is currently predominantly invested in a single lender, it is our 
responsibility to ensure that you are aware of the associated risk, known as Concentration 
Risk. It might help to explain this risk if you think of the goose that laid the golden egg. It 
was a great asset, but it only took one goose to die for the asset to dry up. Basset & Golds 
investment team has performed due diligence on more than 40 opportunities over the past year. Its investment philosophy has been to accept the risk of holding one good asset, rather 
than diluting quality in order to improve diversification. We hope that this will translate into 
improved diversification over time, but as an investor you should be aware that Basset & 
Gold will only proceed with an investment when they are happy with it, even if that prolongs 
the Concentration Risk.
This refers to the fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to 
one short term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle 
Buck went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mrs M has not had her invested capital returned to her (although she 
did receive the interest payments on the bond up until B&G Plc went into administration).
The online application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mrs M underwent.
Certification
Mrs M would first have arrived at a page titled APPLY NOW TO BECOME AN INVESTOR 
which asks the consumer to provide some basic details. The next page is titled PLEASE 
SELECT THE MOST ACCURATE INVESTOR PROFILE FROM THE LIST BELOW and in 
this case asked Mrs M to select from EVERYDAY INVESTOR, SELF CERTIFIED 
SOPHISTICATED INVESTOR, ADVISED INVESTOR or HIGH NET WORTH 
INVESTOR.
Mrs M selected EVERYDAY INVESTOR, which was described as follows:
What Is An Everyday Investor?
Anyone can become an Everyday Investor. You just need to agree to not make more than 
10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and property excluding 
your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold (i.e. illiquid). This is why 
the FCA refers to these investors as 'Restricted Investors'.
Having selected this profile, Mrs M was then asked to make a statement, confirmation and 
declaration as follows:
Everyday Investor Statement
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to non- 
readily realisable securities and investments as a restricted investor.
I declare that I qualify as a restricted investor because both of the following apply:
In the preceding twelve months, I have not invested more than 10% of my net assets in non- 
readily realisable securities.
I undertake that in the following twelve months, I will not invest more than 10% of my net 
assets in non-readily realisable securities.
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan secured 
on that property;(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance;
(c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the termination of 
my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my dependents are), or 
may be, entitled.
Investment Duration
I confirm that I am aware that the minimum duration of the current bonds on offer are as 
follows:
Cash Bond: 30 business days.
3 Year Monthly Income Bond: 3 years.  5 Year Monthly Income Bond: 5 years. 
Compounding High-Yield Bond: 5 years.
Pensioner Bonds: 1 year extendable up to 5 years.
Declaration
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested.
I am aware that it is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in 
advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am familiar with 
this type of investment. I am not planning on borrowing, remortgaging or liquidating assets to 
invest into a Non-readily Realisable Security. I am not investing via a SIPP/SSAS created 
specifically for investment in a Non-readily Realisable Security. I will retain access to 
sufficient liquid resources following investment. I am aware the Bond is intended to be an 
income producing product and not a product that provides capital growth.
I agree to Basset & Gold Plc and Gallium Fund Solutions Limited keeping a record of this 
declaration and providing them to the FCA in event of an investigation.
Mrs M was required to click Next to make the required statement, confirmation and 
declaration.
The appropriateness test
Having completed the certification, Mrs M would then have arrived at a page titled JUST A 
FEW MORE QUESTIONS (REQUIRED BY LAW) which included the following multiple 
choice questions and answers, and a concluding confirmation:
These questions are designed to check that this type of investment is appropriate for you. 
Please read each question carefully and select the answer that you believe is correct.
1) AFTER YOU INVEST IN THIS OFFER CAN YOU TRANSFER YOUR BASSET & 
GOLD BONDS?
The bonds are not transferable except in the case of the IFISA Bonds 
Yes I can transfer them as a listed share
2) THE EXPECTED RETURN FROM BASSET AND GOLD BONDS?is the fixed interest rate per annum paid over the term (plus my Money back at the end)
is dependent on movements in the financial bond and equity markets.
3) IS YOUR CAPITAL SECURE?
No, my capital is at risk and I might not get back all that I invested. 
Yes, my capital is secure and I have no risk of losing.
4) CAN THE BASSET & GOLD BONDS BE CONVERTED TO BASSET & GOLD 
SHARES?
Yes 
No
5) DIVERSIFICATION IS A COMMON WAY TO HELP MANAGE RISK WHEN 
INVESTING; WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
That you should invest all of your money into a single bond.
That you should invest your money in a range of different bonds as well as other less risky 
investments.
I confirm that I have read, understood and agree to Basset Gold Ltds terms and conditions 
of service and confirm that I would like to become a client of Basset Gold Ltd and receive 
financial promotions from time to time.
If any question was answered incorrectly the website displayed the following message (at 
the point of the particular question being answered incorrectly):
You have selected an incorrect answer. If this was an error please correct your answer, 
however please consider that if you are unfamiliar with the features of this investment then it 
might not be suitable for you.
Mrs M completed the full process, so clearly answered the questions correctly  but it is not 
known if she answered any questions incorrectly initially and changed her answers, having 
seen this message.
Answering the questions correctly allowed Mrs M to move the to the final stages, which 
involved selecting an ISA or bond, selecting which of the products she wanted to invest in, 
and how much she wanted to invest. After completing these final stages consumers were 
able to click on a box to open the Invitation Document for the bond. However, it was not 
mandatory to do this  consumers were able to proceed without opening the Invitation 
Document. Mrs M has told us she does not ever remember seeing the Invitation Document.
Galliums response to Mrs Ms complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It said, in summary:
The Invitation Document stated that B&G plc was an unlisted company, the bonds 
were unlisted and that investing in an unlisted company carries substantial risk. The 
Invitation Document also stated that neither B&G plc nor Gallium were providing 
investment advice. There were no statements made that the bonds were regulated.The Invitation Document said B&G plc was committing its funds to investment in 
peer-to-peer (P2P) and marketplace lending markets which contain certain risks 
described in the Invitation Document. It is satisfied that the arrangements with the 
pay day lender Uncle Buck fall within the categories of lending activity stated in the 
Invitation Document. Uncle Buck was involved in FCA-regulated online lending to 
borrowers in the high cost short-term credit sector.
It understands that B&G plc intended to diversify its lending activities to include 
lending to other borrowers and that the statements to that effect in the Invitation 
Document were accurate at the time they were made.
It is not clear what documents or information Mrs M had regard to when deciding to 
invest. However, it notes that the various financial promotions at the time, including 
the B&G plc website and the Invitation Document, contained appropriate risk 
warnings for potential investors including that an individual may be exposed to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money invested.
After Mrs M referred her complaint to us, Gallium sent us submissions. In those 
submissions it said, in summary:
The issue of the bonds, and subsequent performance of B&G plcs business and 
lending activities were not regulated activities and were not matters for which Gallium 
assumed any responsibility.
As part of the application process, every prospective investor declared that they 
understood that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me 
to a significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested, and that 
they have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or [are] 
familiar with this type of investment.
Investors were also asked questions about their experience and understanding of the 
investment opportunity, to ensure that applicants could only invest if they had 
sufficient understanding, experience and financial means, such that the bonds were 
an appropriate investment for them.
It was stated in the Invitation Documents that Gallium had no ongoing role within 
Basset & Gold and that it was not responsible for the implementation of the plans, 
objectives or intentions or the viability of the investment:
The risks to investors were also clearly explained.
Potential investors were required to confirm that they had read and understood the 
Invitation Document as part of applying to invest.
The Invitation Documents clearly specified on multiple occasions that investors 
capital was at risk, and gave detail on the risks of investing in bonds generally, and 
Basset & Gold bonds in particular.
I have considered the submissions in full. I have also seen a copy of what Gallium described 
as its position statement, which sets out general information on the background to 
complaints about B&G Plc bonds, and have considered this when reaching my decision.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ms complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He said, in summary:
He was satisfied the complaint is about a regulated activity and that Gallium, as the 
principal of BG Ltd, was responsible for the acts or omissions the complaint relates 
to. So the complaint is one we can consider.
He was not satisfied that Mrs M was provided with clear, fair and not mis-leading 
information about the bond. In particular the information on the bassetgold.co.uk 
website was misleading and unclear.
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs M as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her - was mis- 
leading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so Mrs M wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs M to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Mrs M for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: On the scope of Mrs Ms 
complaint:
Mrs M hadnt detailed why she thought the bond had been mis-sold  though it 
appreciated our inquisitorial remit, it felt we had gone significantly beyond the scope 
of the complaint made. Complainants must establish a proper basis for a complaint 
about Gallium to be upheld and Mrs Ms complaint did not do that. It thought the case 
ought to have been dismissed on this basis.
On BG Ltds advertising /marketing:
The investigator relies solely on the website, to the exclusion of other materials 
provided during the promotion process, principally the Invitation Document. The 
Invitation Document was designed to provide information on the features of the 
investment being offered, and in particular to provide detailed information on the risks 
associated with investing in the Basset & Gold bonds.
As required, the Invitation Documents were available to prospective investors after 
the appropriateness of the investment for them had been tested, but prior to the 
investor submitting their application.
The investigator justifies ignoring the content of the Invitation Document because Mrs 
M doesnt believe she received a copy, and that even if she had she would not
have fully understood its contents. It is inconceivable that the Invitation Document would not 
have been made available to Mrs M during the application process in the usual way.
Each investor, including Mrs M, was also required to confirm that I have read and 
understood the Invitation Document including the terms and conditions of the Basset 
& Gold [Bonds] and associated risks and wish to subscribe to the Basset & Gold 
[Bonds]. In completing her application to subscribe for the Basset & Gold bonds, Mrs 
M therefore confirmed to Gallium both that she had received and read the Invitation 
Document, and that she had understood their contents. Again the established case law on estoppel should apply.
There is no evidence from Mrs M that she actually considered any of the statements 
on the website the investigator refers to, that she understood them in the manner 
suggested, or that she relied on them in deciding whether to invest.
The investigator also relies on the website without evidence that the website actually 
appeared as suggested at the time Mrs M made her investment.
At the time Gallium approved the Invitation Documents, the statements regarding 
Basset & Golds lending activities were accurate and fairly described the scope of its 
activities and its plans for the money received from investors.
Mrs M says she decided to invest because of the reference in the terms and 
conditions to the FSCS, which led Mrs M to believe this made it a safe investment. 
The Invitation Documents provided the correct information on this issue, which was 
presented in a way which was fair, clear and not misleading.
On the certification process:
Regardless of label, Mrs M was required to confirm that she met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. If Mrs M misrepresented that she 
fulfilled those criteria, it is a well-established legal position that she should be 
estopped from now seeking to take a position contrary to that representation. It would 
not be fair or reasonable to expect Gallium to anticipate that investors would 
incorrectly claim to satisfy the requirements of the declaration.
It is not fair or reasonable to conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed 
to Mrs M giving an incorrect declaration, by causing her to pay insufficient attention to 
the terms of the declaration.
Mrs M paid close attention to section 9 of the terms and conditions, in believing that 
the investment was safe. It is not credible to conclude that Mrs M would carefully 
consider the terms and conditions so as to be aware of and rely on specific terms 
contained within it, but would wholly disregard the terms of declarations she was 
required to make.
Mrs M ought to be held to the declaration she made that she satisfied the 
requirements of a restricted investor.
On the appropriateness test:
It is important to recognise when appropriateness testing or suitability testing is 
required. As businesses structure their approach based on this, any incorrect 
application can wholly undermine their business model. There is significant cost to 
designing and implementing the approach. Our investigator had not applied the 
requirements correctly.
The fundamental question when assessing appropriateness is whether the client is 
able to understand the risks involved in relation to the product (COBS 10.2.1R).
COBS 10.2.1R notwithstanding, depending on the circumstances, a business may 
conclude that knowledge alone is sufficient for the client to understand the risks 
involved in the product. Equally, a firm may infer knowledge from experience (COBS 
10.2.6G).Depending on the nature of the client and product complexity and risks, it may be 
appropriate for the business to seek information on the types of investment with 
which the client is familiar, their history of similar investments, and their level of 
education and profession. But there is no requirement to seek all of that information 
in every case: it is required only to the extent it is relevant to assessing whether the 
client was able to understand the risks of the product (COBS 10.2.2R).
The FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around appropriateness since 
Mrs M made her investment, and the regulatory environment has changed. At the 
time of the investment, however, the FCA had publicly articulated different 
expectations. We must apply regulatory expectations as they existed at the relevant 
time and not seek to apply the different standards that exist today in a retrospective 
manner.
In 2014 there had been discussions between the FCA and crowdfunding industry as 
to what the FCA expected businesses to do to ensure investments were appropriate 
for investors. The guidance took the form of two question and answer sessions with 
the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UK Crowdfunding Association (UKCFA). 
These sessions addressed, in particular, the question of whether investor experience 
and education needed to form part of an appropriateness assessment. Gallium had 
regard to this guidance when considering BG Ltds appropriateness testing.
It understands that guidance provided by the FCA in those industry meetings clarified 
that firms were able to satisfy themselves of what information was pertinent to their 
investment process. Importantly, in appropriate circumstances, the FCA would not 
insist on an appropriateness test containing questions about education or prior 
investment experience.
In any event, Gallium did in fact carry out adequate testing of investors relevant 
knowledge and experience. Gallium required prospective investors to pass the 
appropriateness test by correctly answering 100% of the questions asked. In 
completing the appropriateness test, information was obtained about an investors 
knowledge and experience of the key characteristics of the bonds.
Mrs M also certified that she was an everyday investor, confirming I have made 
investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am familiar with this 
type of investment.
Further, all investors also expressly confirmed that the bonds may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested and they had 
read and understood the Invitation Document including the terms and conditions of 
the bonds and associated risks. The Invitation Document provided investors with full 
details of the nature of the investment and its risks.
Taken together, the appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were 
sufficient for Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient 
knowledge and experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds 
involved, per COBS 10.2.1(2)R.
The fact Mrs M was able to invest demonstrates that she answered the 
appropriateness test correctly and gave the confirmations. Gallium was entitled to 
conclude that she had answered each question honestly and conscientiously, and in 
so doing had demonstrated she understood the investment opportunity.
COBS 10.2.4R provides that [a] firm is entitled to rely on the information provided by a client unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or 
incomplete. Gallium had no such awareness.
If Mrs M misrepresented her knowledge and experience, in accordance with well- 
established legal principles explained above, she should be estopped from taking a 
position contrary to her own representation. If investors were willing to give false 
information in response to the appropriateness fest and the confirmations, there is no 
basis to suppose they would have given accurate information had further questions 
been asked.
On whether Mrs M would have proceeded with the investment in any event:
Mrs M was notified in clear terms in January 2019 that there was a concentration risk 
arising from the high proportion of funds being lent to one entity, carrying out one 
type of lending. The risks this entailed were explained in clear terms to her and she 
was given the opportunity to seek to redeem her bonds, but took no steps to do so.
This provides evidence of how Mrs M would have acted if presented with that 
material when deciding whether to invest. In any event, it demonstrates that Mrs M 
became aware of the concentration risk in 2019, had the option to seek to exit her 
investment in the bonds, and chose not to do so, or even to explore the possibility. 
Her loss is therefore caused by the decision not to exit the investment when that risk 
was made clear to her in 2019. Whilst Gallium does not accept that the promotional 
material was not fair, clear and not misleading; this demonstrates clearly that she 
would have continued to invest regardless.
The investigator says Ive not seen anything to persuade me that she wanted to take 
any risk with her limited monies and concludes that Mrs M wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return without risking any of her capital. The available evidence does not 
support these conclusions.
Mrs M expressly acknowledged on numerous occasions that by proceeding with the 
investment she was at risk of losing the capital invested. Mrs M cannot now be 
permitted to suggest that she would not have put her capital at risk, when she 
confirmed on numerous occasions that she understood and acknowledged that her 
capital was at risk.
Nor can the Decision rationally conclude either that there is nothing in the evidence 
to suggest that Mrs M wanted to take any risk with her money. Not only is there 
evidence to demonstrate that Mrs M specifically acknowledged the risk to her money, 
but there is also an absence of any evidence to suggest that Mrs M was not prepared 
to take that risk.
The 6.22% interest rate evidences Mrs M knew the investment was not risk free  the 
Bank of England Base Rate was only 0.25% so its not realistic to suggest she did 
not appreciate or accept the risk.
After receiving this response our investigator shared some information from the file with 
Gallium. This included a letter dated 5 September 2020 from Mrs M setting out her complaint 
in more detail, and three emails setting out her recollections of making the investment in the 
bond, and detail of her financial circumstances and investment experience at the time. The 
key points made by Mrs M in the letter and emails are included in my above background 
summary.
My provisional decision I recently issued a provisional decision. In summary, I concluded Mrs Ms complaint should 
be upheld because: 
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it 
could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for 
the potential investor.
BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not follow the rules relating to this. Had it done so, it 
would have concluded Mrs M did not fall into a category of investor to whom the bond 
could be promoted and, furthermore, that the bond was not an appropriate 
investment for her. 
Had the rules been followed in either respect, I was satisfied Mrs M would not have 
made the investment. It was therefore in my view fair to ask Gallium to compensate 
Mrs M for her loss. 
As I revisit (and, where appropriate, repeat) my provisional findings below I will not include 
any more than this brief summary here. 
Galliums response to my provisional decision 
Gallium did not accept my provisional decision. I have considered its response in full, but will 
only summarise what I consider to be the key points (which are not a repeat of the previous 
submissions) here: 
In a number of instances I say its unlikely that something will have been the case 
but without apparently having sought any evidence as to whether there is a basis for 
the conclusion reached.  Evidence of what actually was the case should be available, 
either because Gallium supplied (or could supply) it, or because Mrs M would be able 
to supply it.
If Mrs M misrepresented that she fulfilled the criteria of a restricted investor, it is well 
established in law that she should be estopped from now seeking to take a position 
contrary to that representation. It previously referred to two cases by way of example, 
Low v Bouverie [1891] 3 Ch 82, and also Bank Leumi (UK) plc v Wachner [2011] 
EWHC 656 (Comm) which applies this principle in the context of a professional client 
declaration. I incorrectly conclude these cases do not apply to the complaint. They 
are directly applicable. 
The page on which the restricted investor declaration was made stated that if an 
investor was in any doubt they should contact BG Ltd for assistance. It then stated 
clearly that If none of these investor profiles is applicable then this investment is not 
suitable for you. Immediately above the button which the investor would need to 
click to move to the next page, it clearly stated that By clicking NEXT you 
acknowledge, understand and agree with the investor declaration. It is not credible 
to conclude Mrs M would wholly disregard the terms of declarations required, in light 
of these clear markings that the declaration was important, and needed to be 
properly considered.
The decision misconstrues the requirements of the FCA rules relating to the 
appropriateness test at the time of the investment. And in any event, it wrongly 
concludes that those requirements were not met.
The decision considers the guidance issued by the FCA at the time both formally and 
through industry groups, but argues that it did not mean that Gallium did not need to apply the rules in place at the relevant time. This misunderstands Galliums position. 
The guidance provided clarity on the proper interpretation of the rules in the context 
of products such as the bonds. In reaching the decision, I am seeking to apply the 
rules in a manner contradictory to that guidance.
Taken together, the appropriateness test answers and confirmations were sufficient 
for BG Ltd to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, per COBS 
10.2.1(2)R. Gallium was also entitled to rely on the answers and confirmations given 
by Mrs M, in line with COBS 10.2.4R.
The available evidence suggests Mrs M would have continued to invest in any event. 
Mrs M certified that she was an everyday investor despite apparently failing to fulfil 
the criteria. Mrs M also proceeded to make a significant investment decision having 
completed the appropriateness testing questionnaire. That indicates either she 
answered all questions correctly which demonstrates that she did understand the 
investment; or she answered one or more questions incorrectly, received the warning 
that the bonds may not be appropriate, and elected to proceed anyway.
The notice issued to investors by Bassett Gold Finance in 2019 is rejected as being a 
basis for demonstrating Mrs M would have proceeded with the investment in any 
event. However, the wording of this notice was approved by the FCA as being 
appropriate wording to inform investors of the risk. It is, therefore, unreasonable to 
find that this notice was not adequate, or that it gave investors insufficient warning. 
Mrs M expressly acknowledged on numerous occasions that by proceeding with the 
investment she was at risk of losing the capital invested.
Every page of the online customer application process contained a risk warning that 
investors capital was at risk and that interest payments were not guaranteed if the 
borrower defaulted. Investors were then directed to the Invitation Document for 
detailed risk information.
When Mrs M certified herself as falling within a particular category of investor, she 
declared she accepted that the investments to which the promotions will relate may 
expose me to a significant risk of losing all the money or other property invested.
Mrs M successfully completed the appropriateness test, demonstrating an 
understanding of the risk to capital.
Mrs M was required to confirm having read and understood the Invitation Document 
as part of applying to invest. The Invitation Document clearly specified on multiple 
occasions that investors capital was at risk, and gave details on the risks of investing 
in bonds generally, and Basset & Gold bonds in particular.
Mrs M cannot now be permitted to suggest she would not have knowingly put capital 
at risk, having confirmed on numerous occasions understanding and acknowledging 
that capital was at risk. 
My findings
I note, in its response to my provisional decision,  Gallium has repeated the points it earlier 
made about what I should be looking at when considering Mrs Ms complaint. Gallium says I 
have made findings on matters significantly beyond the scope of the complaint Mrs M has 
made. It says I have made no findings against Gallium in respect of any of the allegations actually made by Mrs M but have made findings on points which Mrs M has not complained 
about, namely the appropriateness of the bonds and whether Mrs M was entitled to receive 
financial promotions in respect of it. 
I have not been persuaded to depart from my provisional findings on this point. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution forum. A complaint 
made to us need not be, and rarely is, made out with the clarity of formal legal pleadings. As 
recognised by the High Court in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWHC 
2142, our service deals with complaints, not causes of action. Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial, 
not adversarial.
I acknowledge the complaint form Mrs M completed when making a referral to us refers only 
to investment loss. But more detail is set out in Mrs Ms letter dated 5 September 2020, 
which Gallium has seen. This letter refers to BGL Ltd having mis-sold the bond and having 
misled Mrs M. So the complaint concerns what Mrs M considers to be a mis-sale of the 
bond by BG Ltd, the provision of misleading information by BG Ltd, and the ongoing 
management of the bond. In my view the points I considered in my provisional decision  
and reconsider here  are within the scope of Mrs Ms complaint and are, in any event, 
points which it is appropriate for me to consider inquisitorially, given the nature of Mrs Ms 
complaint. 
I have also, for completeness, reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whether we can consider Mrs Ms complaint. 
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas accepted responsibility).
The bond was a security or contractually based investment specified in the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mrs 
M made her investment, the RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals in 
investments. Acts such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form 
and sending it off, with the clients payment, to the investment issuer would come within the 
scope of Article 25(1), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the 
transaction. So I am satisfied the online application process falls within the scope of Article 
25(1). These all involved making arrangements for Mrs M to invest in the bond, and had the 
direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
So I remain satisfied Mrs Ms complaint  insofar as it relates to the bond application process 
- is about regulated activities. I am also satisfied this part of the complaint is about acts for 
which Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can be 
considered in a complaint against it.
I am not able to consider B&G Plcs issuing of the bond or what B&G Plc did with the money 
once Mrs M invested. B&G Plcs issuing of the bond and what B&G Plc did with the money 
once Mrs M invested did not involve regulated activities.I remain of the view that in this case the focus is on the acts or omissions of BG Ltd, as it 
was BG Ltd which was responsible for the sale of the bond.
The merits of Mrs Ms complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have first reconsidered what the relevant considerations are in this case. Having done so, I 
remain of the view that these are as set out in my provisional decision. So I have repeated 
below what I said in my provisional decision. 
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether 
Gallium met its regulatory obligations when BG Ltd, acting on its behalf, carried out the acts 
the complaint is about. I consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular 
relevance here.
The Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 and 7 are relevant here. They provide:
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7 - Communications with clients - A firm must pay due regard to the information 
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, clear and not misleading communications, which I 
also consider to be relevant here:
COBS 4.2.1R:
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not 
misleading.
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below 
what I consider to be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time.
COBS 4.7 - Direct offer financial promotions
COBS 4.7.7R:(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a direct- 
offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security to or for 
communication to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being satisfied.
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial promotion is 
one of the following:
(a) certified as a high net worth investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(b) certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(d) certified as a restricted investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in relation to 
the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on appropriateness (see 
COBS
10) or equivalent requirements for any application or order that the person is aware, or ought 
reasonably to be aware, is in response to the direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 4.7.10R
A certified restricted investor is an individual who has signed, within the period of twelve 
months ending with the day on which the communication is made, a statement in the 
following terms:
RESTRICTED INVESTOR STATEMENT
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to non-
readily realisable securities as a restricted investor. I declare that I qualify as a restricted 
investor because:
(a) in the twelve months preceding the date below, I have not invested more than 10% 
of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities; and
(b) I undertake that in the twelve months following the date below, I will not invest more 
than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan 
secured on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance; orCOBS 10  Appropriateness (for non-advised services)
At the time COBS 10.1.2 R said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable 
security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought 
reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response to a direct offer financial 
promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information regarding her knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant 
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order 
to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered or demanded;
COBS 10.2.2 R:
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their 
complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is 
familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and (c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the 
termination of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my 
dependants are), or may be entitled; or
(d) any withdrawals from my pension savings (except where the withdrawals are used 
directly for income in retirement).
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested. I am aware that it is 
open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in advising on 
non-readily realisable securities.
Signature:
Date:the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
10.2.6G  Knowledge and experience:
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge alone 
is sufficient for her to understand the risks involved in a product or service. Where 
reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience.
COBS 10.3 Warning the client COBS 10.3.1R
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm must 
warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R
(1) If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess 
appropriateness, or if she provides insufficient information regarding her knowledge and 
experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the firm to 
determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for her.
COBS 10.3.3G
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by the 
firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances.
I again note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have again had 
regard to the policy statement, and to Galliums recollections of the two question and answer 
sessions.
Having taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and given careful consideration to all Gallium has said, I 
have not been persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. So I have largely repeated 
below what I said in my provisional decision, whilst taking account of the relevant points 
Gallium has made in its response to my provisional decision. 
My decision, in summary, remains as follows:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs M into certifying herself as belonging 
in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the 
term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being 
one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mrs M fairly or acting in her best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs M, it is unlikely she 
would have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mrs M. In the circumstances Mrs M 
would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mrs M.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision remains that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. I also remain satisfied Mrs M would either not have proceeded 
to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I remain satisfied it is fair to ask 
Gallium to compensate Mrs M for her loss.
I have again set things out in more detail below.
The online application process
There were a number of regulatory obligations which applied to the sale of the B&G Plc 
bond. The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it 
could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These are the two conditions set out in COBS 4.7.7R which must be 
satisfied before a business such as BG Ltd (here acting on Galliums behalf) could 
communicate or approve a direct-offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable 
security such as the bonds issued by B&G Plc.
The online application took steps toward meeting the rules which set out how a busines must 
satisfy the two conditions, which I have set out above. I will consider the steps taken by BG 
Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, in relation to each in turn.
At the outset I think it is again important to emphasise the bond Mrs M invested in was not a 
straightforward product. Risk factors associated with the bond included the track record of 
B&G Plc, the detail of its due diligence on the businesses it would be lending to, the criteria 
B&G Plc applied to its lending and the conditions on which the loan was made. The credit 
history of the business the loan was made to would also need to be considered, its capacity 
to repay, and its capital position. Furthermore, as the business B&G Plc was lending to was 
itself lending, the lending criteria it applied, the default rate and the success of its past 
lending would need to be considered. All of these points (and this is not an exhaustive list) 
would need to be considered in order to understand the investment.
In the market for corporate bonds listed on the main exchanges, institutions  ratings 
agencies  carry out analysis work to assess the risk associated with a bond and express a 
view (a rating), and investment managers often carry out further credit analysis before 
deciding to invest in a bond. Here there were no such aids to a consumers understanding of 
the product. There was also a liquidity risk. The bond was not listed on a recognised 
exchange, and so could not be readily sold (in fact it seems to have been a condition of the 
investment that it could not be transferred). And, as Gallium has pointed out, the Invitation 
Document which set out the details of the bond was over 40 pages long. I have read the 
document and it contains a lot of complex technical information which may not be readily 
understood by the average investor.
So the bond was complex, risky and specialist and this is why the bond fell into a category of 
investment on which the FCA puts restrictions as to who it could be promoted. And an 
obvious risk of consumer detriment arises if the rules relating to this are not properly applied. 
The importance of Gallium fully meeting its regulatory obligations here was therefore high.
Its responsibility was significant. And the steps it took to meet its regulatory obligations need 
to be considered with that in mind.
Certification
The first condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required a retail client, such as Mrs M, to be 
certified as being in one of four categories of investor in order to receive promotional 
communications relating to the bond. In this case, Mrs M was certified as a restricted investor. The detail of this category and the process by which an investor can certify 
themselves as belonging to it is set out in COBS 4.7.10R, which I have quoted above.
I remain of the view the certification stage of the application stage on BG Ltds website did 
not meet the requirements of COBS 4.7.10R in a number of ways.
Firstly, BG Ltd did not use the correct term  restricted investor - it instead used the term 
everyday investor.
Secondly, the statement, confirmation and declaration Mrs M was asked to make included 
some of the wording set out in 4.7.10R  but not all of it. And additions had been made. The 
title of the statement also departed from the wording set out in 4.7.10R  it was described as 
a Everyday Investor Statement.
Finally, BG Ltd provided its own definition of a restricted (or, as it put it, everyday) investor, 
as follows:
Anyone can become an Everyday Investor. You just need to agree to not make more than 
10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and property excluding 
your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold (i.e. illiquid). This is why 
the FCA refers to these investors as 'Restricted Investors'.
But the requirements set out in 4.7.10R are much further reaching than You just need to 
agree to not make more than 10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, 
bonds and property excluding your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be 
sold.
4.7.10R requires the prospective investor to agree to all of the following:
In the twelve months preceding the certification date, not to have invested more than 
10% of their net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To undertake that in the twelve months following the certification date, they will not 
invest more than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To accept that the investments may expose them to a significant risk of losing all of 
the money invested.
To be aware that it is open to them to seek advice from an authorised person who 
specialises in advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have reconsidered the impact of these departures from the requirements of 4.7.10R.
As set out in the background above, Mrs M was offered the option of four investor profiles, 
after she had completed the first stages of her application. The options, other than everyday 
investor were self certified sophisticated investor ,advised investor or high net worth 
investor.
I remain of the view the change of the term restricted investor to everyday investor and 
BG Ltds definition of this being a category to which anyone could belong, by simply 
agreeing to not make more than 10% of their investments in investments that cannot easily 
be sold, had the effect of making the restricted investor category appear to be one into which 
investors like Mrs M would naturally fall.
Restricted is, by its common and ordinary meaning, something which is limited in amount or range. Synonyms include words like limited, constricted and controlled. And what is set 
out in 4.7.10R is consistent with this. Everyday is, by its common and ordinary meaning, 
something which is ordinary, typical or usual and is inconsistent with what is set out in 
4.7.10R The change of the term was also likely to alter how it was perceived. This is 
compounded by BG Ltds definition of a restricted investor as being a category to which 
anyone can belong. Clearly not anyone can belong to a restricted category.
I remain of the view this put undue emphasis on the everyday investor option, and led 
consumers like Mrs M to selecting this option when they may not have done so otherwise. I 
do not think it was fair or reasonable for BG Ltd to act in this way. It was not treating Mrs M 
fairly or acting in her best interests. BG Ltd ought to have known that changing the term 
created a risk of consumers perceiving a restricted investor to be something different to 
what it was, and certifying themselves incorrectly as a result, and risked consumers skipping 
through this as a formality.
I note Gallium says It would not be fair or reasonable to expect it to anticipate that investors 
would incorrectly claim to satisfy the requirements of a restricted investor. I have not been 
persuaded to depart from my provisional findings on this point. If you change the description 
of a category from restricted to an everyday one to which anyone can belong an obvious 
risk is that prospective investors who do not belong in the category mistake the category as 
being one to which they do belong. Indeed, it is difficult to see why BG Ltd departed from 
4.7.10R and changed the term and definition other than to get investors to certify themselves 
as being eligible to receive a promotion of the bond when they might not otherwise have 
done so. In my view this appears to have been done to contrive this outcome in a bid to 
access more investors.
I remain of the view an everyday investor  particularly when described as a category to 
which anyone can belong - is an option Mrs M would immediately have understood or 
could resonate with as that term is a reasonable description of an investor with her 
characteristics
 someone without significant investment experience or assets who was looking to invest a 
modest amount to provide an income to supplement their pension. In my view Mrs M would 
have been attracted to this profile based on her understanding and perception of the word 
everyday and the description of it as a category to which anyone can belong.
Mrs M did not qualify as a restricted investor. Mrs Ms only asset, other than the equity in her 
home, was a sum of around £10,000 she had received as the tax free lump sum from her 
pension. She was investing around half of that here. I also think it unlikely she was aware of 
the bonds had significant risk associated with them  and she had not made investments in 
similar products in the last 30 months. I am satisfied there is sufficient evidence to make a 
finding Mrs M was unlikely to be aware of the significant risk associated with the bonds, as 
Mrs M has told us that she had no investment experience and no educational or 
professional experience relevant to investing. 
I note Galliums view is that Mrs M nonetheless gave the statement, confirmation and 
declaration, that it is not credible to say she would have completely disregarded the detail of 
these, and that it was reasonable for it to rely on them. 
I acknowledge that the statement, confirmation and declaration did largely mirror what is set 
out in 4.7.10R and so Mrs M did state, confirm and declare something which was not 
accurate. However, I remain of the view it is unlikely Mrs M knowingly gave a false 
statement. The money invested was significant to her  it was half her pension lump sum - 
and she had limited liquid assets otherwise. So I think it unlikely that she had regard to the 
full detail of the statement, confirmation and declaration and chose to proceed having understood them in full.  I think it instead likely that she did not consider the detail of what 
she was being asked to agree to as she understood it to be an everyday i.e. ordinary, 
typical or usual category, to which anyone could belong. And, as mentioned above, I think 
BG Ltd should have been aware this was a possible consequence of it changing the wording 
required by the FCAs rules. 
I acknowledge Mrs M appears to have paid some attention to the detail of the Terms and 
Conditions BG Ltd provided to her. But I do not think it follows from her having paid attention 
at the outset to the parts of the Terms and Conditions which refer to the regulatory 
protections she might be afforded that she would pay regard to all the detail at every stage of 
the application. I remain of the view the context is important. Checking the regulatory 
protections available at the outset is quite different to checking the detail of something you 
have been told is an everyday category to which anyone belongs.
I again note Galliums reference to case law relating to circumstances where someone is 
seeking to take a position contrary to an earlier representation. The law is a relevant 
consideration which I need to take into account. But I remain of the view the case law 
Gallium has referred to is quite different to the facts of this case. The Bank of Leumi v 
Wachner case, for example, relates to circumstances where Ms Wachner was clearly a 
wealthy, sophisticated investor with lots of experience of previous similar investments and in 
that situation the court decided that it was fair for the business to rely on the professional 
client declaration made and that it was likely Ms Wachner did understand the papers she 
signed. The situation is quite different here, where Mrs M is investing half her pension lump 
sum and has no investment experience.  Mrs Ms complaint is about what she generally 
describes as a mis- sale. And Mrs M is not making a legal claim - my role here is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, on the basis I have set out. I do not think it 
would be fair and reasonable to say the statement, confirmation and declaration should be 
relied on in circumstances where, in my view, Mrs M was misled into giving them.
I think it is unlikely Mrs M would have made the statement confirmation and declaration at all 
had the correct restricted investor term been used and had the website not presented the 
restricted investor category as being an everyday one into which anyone could fall. I 
think, in the circumstances, the correct term would have made Mrs M pause for thought. As 
mentioned, she had no investment experience and was investing a sum which was 
significant to her. I do not think in such circumstances she would have proceeded had she 
been told she was a restricted investor. As mentioned above, I think restricted has a very 
different meaning to everyday. The latter would have provided comfort to Mrs M whereas 
the former would have made her pause for thought and realise that was a category to which 
she did not belong. I also think it unlikely she would have described herself as a self-
certified sophisticated investor, advised investor or high net worth investor as it would 
have been clear from the descriptions of those categories that she did not fit into them either.
So I remain satisfied if BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet Galliums regulatory obligations Mrs M would not have got beyond this stage. The 
first condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have proceeded 
beyond this. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs Ms complaint on this 
basis alone. I have however, for completeness, gone on to consider the appropriateness 
test.
Appropriateness
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required BG Ltd to comply with the rules on 
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted in the relevant considerations section 
above.The rules at the time (COBS 10.2.1R) required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, to ask 
Mrs M to provide information regarding her knowledge and experience  and for this 
information to be relevant to the product offered (the first limb of the rule). The rules required 
that information to then be assessed, to determine whether Mrs M did have the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved (the second limb of the 
rule).
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, when 
considering what information to ask for, to consider the nature of the service provided, the 
type of product (including its complexity and risks) and for it to include, to the extent 
appropriate to the nature of the client:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is 
familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and 
the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
I note Gallium feels I have misconstrued the requirements of the rules and was wrong to 
conclude that those requirements were not met. But I have not been pursuaded to depart 
from my provisional findings on this point. 
I remain of the view BG Ltd failed to ask for an appropriate amount of information about Mrs 
Ms knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 10.2.1R and COBS 10.2.2 R.
BG Ltd did not refer to an appropriateness test on the website  it instead referred to just a 
few more questions (required by law). I think this, in itself, is a further example of BG Ltd 
downplaying the significance of the regulatory requirements and attempting to make them 
appear as a formality, as it did under the certification section.
Under the few more questions section BG Ltd asked five questions which tested 
knowledge. These questions asked whether Mrs M knew if the bonds were transferable, if 
the return was fixed, if their capital was secure, if the bonds could be converted to shares 
and the meaning of diversification. Nothing was asked about Mrs Ms experience. And if Mrs 
M got a question wrong, she would be told her answer was wrong and prompted to 
reconsider it.
Even if Mrs M did know the correct answer to all five questions without prompting this only 
showed she understood the bonds were not transferrable, the return was fixed, capital was 
at risk, whether the bonds could be converted into shares and was able to select a correct 
answer from two options as to what the definition of diversification was.
In its response to my provisional decision Gallium says Mrs M if answered all these 
questions correctly that demonstrates that she did understand the investment. I do not 
agree. I remain of the view this falls a long way short of adequately testing whether Mrs M 
had the knowledge to understand the risk associated with the bonds  particularly in 
circumstances where the multiple-choice options were limited to two and Mrs M was allowed 
repeated efforts to get them right. The risks, as I set out earlier, were complex and 
multifactorial. It was not, for example, a question of whether Mrs M simply understood 
money could be lost  but whether she was able to understand how likely that might be and 
what factors might lead to it happening.Gallium has referred to it being reasonable to rely on the statement, confirmation and 
declaration given during the restricted or everyday investors stage of Mrs Ms application. I 
again acknowledge BG Ltd asked Mrs M to declare, at the previous stage I am familiar with 
this type of investment. and I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 
months. And it says this means it did have some information about Mrs Ms experience, and 
additional information about her knowledge. However I remain of the view, even accounting 
for the declaration, an appropriate level of information was not asked for. I also remain of the 
view, for the reasons I have set out in the previous section, the statement, confirmation and 
declaration could not reasonably be relied on in the circumstances in which it was obtained.
I remain of the view that, as the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, BG Ltd was unable 
to carry out the assessment required under the second limb. BG Ltd should have been 
confident, from the information it asked for, that it was able to assess if Mrs M had the 
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved with 
investment in the bond. But it was not in a position to make such an assessment, based on 
the information it obtained.
In its previous submissions Gallium referred to 10.2.6G which says there may be 
circumstances in which a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge alone is sufficient 
for him to understand the risks involved in a product or service.
I remain of the view these were not such circumstances  not least because BG Ltd did not 
ask for an appropriate amount of information about Mrs Ms knowledge. The guidance in any 
event does not supplant the rules and in my view it is clearly meant to apply where the client 
has been asked about both knowledge and experience, as the rules require, and the 
information obtained shows knowledge is high and experience is low. It does not say a 
business can ask only about knowledge when conducting an appropriateness test.
Gallium has referred to to industry conferences with the FCA and to the FCAs policy 
statement PS14/04. This relates to the regulation of firms operating online crowdfunding 
platforms or conducting other similar activities. In its response to my provisional decision 
Gallium says I have misunderstood its position in relation to these and I am seeking to apply 
the rules in a manner contradictory to the guidance given by the FCA. It does not however 
specify what guidance from the FCA it received which is contrary to my provisional findings. 
It remains the case I have seen no evidence to show any guidance provided to Gallium 
implied that it did not have to ask about Mrs Ms experience at all. 
As I confirmed in my provisional decision, I have read the policy statement. And I remain of 
the view it simply confirms the rules on appropriateness apply and must be followed. I note, 
for example, the statement confirms, at 4.24, that firms are required to assess whether the 
client has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risk involved. In 
relation to the crowdfunding coming under its regulation the FCAs proposal (which was 
adopted), summarised at 4.6, was:
where no advice was provided, that all firms (MiFID and non-MiFID) must check that clients 
have the knowledge and experience needed to understand the risks involved before being 
invited to respond to an offer
The policy statement does not therefore change my view that BG Ltd, acting on behalf of 
Gallium, did not meet its regulatory obligations. And I have seen no evidence to show the 
FCA gave guidance to Gallium otherwise which would have led it to conclude its 
appropriateness test was adequate. 
In any event  and notwithstanding what I say above about COBS 10.2.1R and 10.2.6G  it remains the case that as Gallium did not ask for sufficient information about Mrs Ms 
knowledge, it was not in a position to assess whether her knowledge alone was sufficient.
Gallium also suggests the FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around 
appropriateness since Mrs M made her investment in 2017, and the regulatory environment 
has changed since then. To be clear, my findings are based on the rules that existed at the 
time.
I remain of the view that, had the process been consistent with what the rules required - had 
Mrs M been asked for appropriate information about her knowledge and experience - the 
only reasonable conclusion BG Ltd could have reached, having assessed this, was that Mrs 
M did not have the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved 
with the bond.
Mrs M did not have any investment experience and I have seen no evidence to show she 
had anything other than a very basic knowledge of investments. As noted above, she has 
told us she had no investment experience and no educational or professional experience 
relevant to investing. 
If BG Ltd assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 10.3.1 R said a warning must 
be given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business could consider whether in the 
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if the client wished to proceed, despite the 
warning.
Gallium, in its response to the provisional decision says if Mrs M answered one or more 
questions incorrectly that means she received the warning that the bonds may not be 
appropriate, and elected to proceed anyway. But, if a warning was given, it was not given in 
a way which met COBS 10.3.1 R. This envisages the test being completed, and a result 
determined, before the warning was given. As BG Ltd designed the test the only warning 
was in response to incorrect answers and simply said if you are unfamiliar with the features 
of this investment then it might not be suitable for you. In my view this does not meet what 
is required by COBS 10.3.1R, which is a warning that the product is not appropriate. And, by 
allowing Mrs M the opportunity to effectively silence the warning through selecting a different 
answer, the impact of it was reduced in any event. 
The process also did not give BG Ltd the opportunity to consider whether in the 
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if Mrs M wished to proceed, despite the 
warning.
I remain of the view a warning which told Mrs M clearly an investment in the bond was not 
appropriate for her would likely have put Mrs M off proceeding further. That is a clear, 
emphatic statement which would have left Mrs M in no doubt the bond was not an 
appropriate investment for her. And she ought to have been privy to such a warning, had an 
appropriateness test consistent with the requirements of the rules been conducted.
Furthermore  and separately from any acceptance of a warning by Mrs M - had BG Ltd 
given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances whether to go ahead with the 
transaction if Mrs M wished to proceed, having asked for appropriate information about Mrs 
Ms knowledge and experience, it would have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to 
conclude it should not allow Mrs M to proceed. Had Mrs M been asked for appropriate 
information about her knowledge and experience this would have shown she may not have 
the capacity to fully understand the risk associated with the bond. As mentioned, I have seen 
no evidence to show Mrs M had anything other than a very basic knowledge of investments. 
In these circumstances, it would not have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it 
should proceed if Mrs M wanted to, despite a warning (which, as noted, was not in any event given in the required terms or required way).
All in all, I remain satisfied BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did not act fairly and 
reasonably when assessing appropriateness. By assessing appropriateness in the way it did 
it was not treating Mrs M fairly or acting in her best interests. If it had acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet the relevant regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mrs 
M would not have got beyond this stage. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint on this basis alone. Even if I am wrong to say Mrs M would not 
have said she was a restricted investor and given the statement, confirmation and 
declaration relating to this had BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, acted differently (and for the 
reasons I have set out, I still do not consider that to be the case) Mrs M would not have got 
beyond this second stage.
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have 
proceeded beyond this.
Invitation Document
Gallium has again referred to the explaination of risks set out in the Invitation Document. 
However, I remain of the view things need to be considered in the order in which Mrs M 
would have been privy to them. Mrs M could only have been privy to the Invitation Document 
after having completed the certification and appropriateness test. And, as I set out above, I 
do not think Mrs M should have reached this point.
I acknowledge that Mrs M may have seen the Invitation Document, as she was incorrectly 
certified as a restricted investor as a result of being misled by BG Ltd and the bond was 
incorrectly assessed as being appropriate for her due to BG Ltd failing to meet its regulatory 
obligations in relation to this. However, considering the available evidence, I think it unlikely     
Mrs M looked at the Invitation Document in any detail and that she did not have the capacity 
to fully understand it even if she did look at it in detail.
So I remain of the view Gallium cannot reasonably rely on the Invitation Document to say 
Mrs M had an understanding of the bond and proceeded on that basis.
As I set out in my provisional decision I think it is also important to say that an objective of 
the appropriateness test was to protect consumers such as Mrs M from receiving 
communications about investments which were not appropriate for them. One obvious 
reason for this being that such consumers may not be able to fully understand these 
communications. So it would not be fair and reasonable to say, where the test has not been 
applied as set out in the rules and an incorrect conclusion reached on appropriateness as a 
result, that any knowledge subsequently acquired from the Invitation Document can be used 
in an effort to retrospectively satisfy the test.
The website and any other marketing material
For similar reasons to those given above, I remain of the view I do not need to consider 
anything else (i.e. other than the application stages set out) Mrs M may have been privy to 
before making the investment. I say this because nothing else that could have been 
conceivably shown on the website or elsewhere changes the position that Mrs M would not  
and could not - have satisfied the first or second conditions in COBS 4.7.7R and therefore 
could not receive promotional communications relating to the bond.
I have noted the point Mrs M has made about the Terms and Conditions and her view these 
misled her as to the level of regulatory protection available to investors in the bond. 
However, I do not think it is necessary to consider this either, for the same reason.Is it fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs M?
I have considered all the points Gallium has made. However, for the reasons given, I am 
satisfied that if BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations Mrs M could not  or would not - have proceeded to invest in the bond. 
Mrs M could not have satisfied the first or second conditions in COBS 4.7.7R in order to 
receive promotional communications relating to the bond. And even if I am wrong about the 
first condition Mrs M could not have passed an appropriateness test which met the 
requirements of the rules and so could not have met the second condition, in any event. And 
even if she had said she wanted to proceed following a warning (and such a warning had 
been given in a way which was consistent with the rules) I do not think, as I set out above, 
that it would have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should  allow Mrs M to 
proceed.
So Mrs M should not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet its regulatory obligations. The starting point is therefore that it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mrs M for the loss she has suffered as a result of making the investment. 
In its response to the provisional decision Gallium says Mrs M expressly acknowledged on 
numerous occasions that by proceeding with the investment she was at risk of losing the 
capital invested, and this is evidence Mrs M would have proceeded to invest in the bond 
regardless of what it did. It adds that the high return offered reflected the fact capital was at 
risk and it is unrealistic to think that Mrs M was not aware of this and prepared to take a risk 
with her capital. 
Gallium has also referred again to the January 2019 update email. It says the wording of this 
notice was approved by the FCA as being appropriate wording to inform investors of the risk 
and it is, therefore, unreasonable to find that this notice was not adequate, or that it gave 
investors insufficient warning. 
I do not think it would be fair to say Mrs M should not be compensated on this basis. Firstly, 
she should not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet 
its regulatory obligations. Secondly, for the reasons I have given, I am not in any event 
persuaded Mrs M did proceed with a full understanding of the risks associated with the bond. 
As noted above, I am not persuaded Mrs M looked at the full detail of the acknowledgements 
she gave, and I think she was reassured by the everyday investors description associated 
with them. And, given what Mrs M has said about her understanding of the bond, and her 
lack of investment experience, I am not persuaded she understood from the relatively high 
return on offer that the investment involved significant risk. 
Turning to the 2019 email, what I am considering here is the impact of the warning in the 
specific circumstances of Mrs M complaint and what impact it actually had. I do think the 
wording of this email was largely reassuring and it is fair to consider that it had very little 
impact (as noted in my provisional decision Gallium says that only one of 1,700 investors 
who received this email took any action). I have not seen any further evidence on the FCAs 
approval of this communication but, even if it was approved as an adequate general 
warning, I need to consider it in the context of the facts of this individual complaint. And I do 
not think it follows from any approval by the FCA that it would not be fair to ask Gallium to 
pay compensation in circumstances such as those in this complaint. 
As mentioned, I am not persuaded Mrs M had the capacity to fully understand the risks 
associated with the bond  and she was in this position because BG Ltd, acting on behalf of 
Gallium, did not act fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations at the outset. And I think this is sufficient reason for me to find it would not be fair to say the January 2019 
update means Mrs M should not be compensated for the loss she suffered. 
I therefore remain satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs M.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. I am satisfied, for all the 
reasons given, that Mrs M would not have invested in the bond had BG Ltd, on behalf of 
Gallium, acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And I think it is fair to 
ask Gallium to compensate Mrs M for the loss she has suffered.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
M as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond.
I think Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also pay interest as set out below.
It is also clear that Mrs M has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the 
loss of her investment. Given her circumstances, this is money Mrs M cannot afford 
to lose, nor is it money she is able to replace. I do not believe Mrs M foresaw such a 
drastic loss and I recognise the considerable worry she will have felt when B&G Plc 
failed. I consider a payment of £500 is fair compensation for the upset caused.Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
8% simple per
year from final
decision to
B&G Plc 
bondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decisionsettlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business
receiving the
complainant's
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs M agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs M that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted to achieve a reasonable return without any significant risk to her 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs M's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs M would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman