DRN-3915691
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) declined his 
claim under his furniture warranty.
What happened
Mr H bought a warranty underwritten by Acasta when he bought two new leather sofas. 
Within the first 12 months, Mr H made a claim because the leather was separating at the 
front of the sofa and sagging. Because the sofas were still within the manufacturers 
warranty period, Acasta declined the claim.
The damage was repaired under the manufacturers warranty.
Mr H made another claim under his policy when the leather started to separate again. He 
said there was wear and tear, he could hear a spring sound at certain points of the seat, and 
it was baggy at the front of the seat cushions.
Acasta sent a technician who reported that the fault was the same as the original one, and 
there was no evidence of a structural fault. Acasta declined the claim because the warranty 
didnt cover failed repairs. 
Mr H was unhappy with the outcome of Acastas assessment of his claim because he didnt 
think the problem was the same as that repaired by the manufacturer. So, he brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Acasta demonstrated that the damage 
to Mr Hs furniture was excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy. Therefore, our 
investigator didnt think Acasta had done anything wrong.
Mr H didnt agree. He pointed out that the insurer declined the claim as failed repairs and 
structural defects first discovered in the manufacturers warranty period. Yet Acastas 
technician reported that there was no evidence of a structural issue and Mr H hadnt claimed 
for any. Further, Mr H said a failed repair would be something that happened within a brief 
period, whereas his claim was two years after the repair. Finally, Mr H said the last 
technician confirmed the springs and foam were faulty.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. While I can understand his 
frustration at experiencing faults with his new furniture, I havent seen anything in the 
evidence to suggest that Acasta unfairly declined his claim. Ill explain my reasons.
Looking at the evidence, it seems the manufacturer accepted responsibility for the first fault 
under the 12-month warranty. The same technicians as those used by Acasta attended on 
behalf of the manufacturer and repaired the sofas. Therefore, Im satisfied that this issue 
isnt in dispute.
The issue, then, is that Mr H doesnt think Acasta fairly declined his claim when further 
damage became apparent. Ive looked at the technician reports provided for the subsequent 
fault. The first two reports completed subsequent to the initial manufacturer repair say that 
there was no fault, whether manufacturer or structural. The final report says it was a 
manufacturing fault because the interior failed.
I appreciate this is confusing because the outcome of the final inspection doesnt match the 
first two. However, if the final report is correct and it was a manufacturing fault, Im satisfied 
the policy doesnt provide cover. Thats because it says:
We will not pay the claim costs arising from:
16. Failed repairs carried out under the manufacturers warranty
If the first two reports are correct, then there was no fault to repair.
I understand Mr H disagrees with Acasta about it being the same fault as that originally 
repaired by the manufacturer. However, looking at the photos provided alongside the 
technician reports, the fault appears to be the same. And looking at Mr Hs notification of his 
claim, his description sounds broadly similar in respect of the sagging fabric at the front of 
the seat cushion.
Ive thought about Mr Hs view on how long it would take a failed repair to become apparent. 
But I cant reasonably conclude that Acasta was wrong to decline his claim for the reason it 
gave. Thats because it was clear from Mr Hs reporting of events that the damage hadnt 
only just happened when he made his claim. I note he said there was an element of wear 
and tear, and spring sounds in certain places. Later he said he could feel the springs. The 
manufacturer had replaced the interior according to the technician report, so, in the absence 
of any contradictory evidence, I think it was reasonable that Acasta relied on the policy 
exclusion for failed repairs.
Overall, Im satisfied that Acasta reasonably relied on the reports provided by the technicians 
to conclude that the damage wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. And, as Mr H 
hasnt provided evidence to show that his claim was for different damage to that repaired 
under the manufacturers warranty, I see no reason to ask Acasta to reconsider the claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman