DRN-4076372
The complaint
Mr A has complained about how Protector Insurance UK (Protector) dealt with a claim under 
a block insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had a water leak at his home, so he made a claim under the block insurance policy. Mr 
A complained to Protector as he said there were delays with the claim and poor quality work. 
He said this meant he lost a buyer for his property and had to sell his property for less.
Protector acknowledged Mr As complaint, but Mr A referred the complaint to this service 
when Protector didnt reply to it. When our investigator looked at the complaint, she upheld 
it. She said there were avoidable delays and that Protector should pay £150 compensation 
for these. She said it wasnt possible to say Protector was responsible for any losses 
incurred around the sale of the property.
Following this, our investigator asked Protector to confirm its position on some lights and a 
damaged carpet. Protector refunded Mr A the cost of the lights and offered a further £150 
compensation for damage to a carpet.
As Mr A didnt agree this fairly compensated him for what had happened, the complaint was 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the timeline of what happened during the complaint. Mr A seemed to initially 
want to arrange his own contractor. However, he later asked Protector to do the work. 
Protector appointed its contractors and the property was confirmed dry in mid-August. I 
could see that Mr A had to chase on a few occasions for updates and progress before the 
reinstatement quote was sent. Mr A also complained about contractors cancelling visits and 
mess caused to his home. So, I can see that Mr A was caused inconvenience by how his 
claim was handled and its progress.
Mr A has also described other impacts on him. He said Protectors handling of the claim 
meant the sale of his home fell through. I think a range of factors could have caused the sale 
to fall through and I havent seen evidence that persuades me this was down to Protectors 
handling of the claim. Mr A also said he had to take time off work because of people not 
showing up. From what I saw, Protector offered to fit a key box to reduce the impact on Mr A 
while the works were ongoing, but Mr A declined this. He didnt have to accept the offer, but I 
think Protector tried to take steps to assist Mr A during the claim and to reduce the impact on 
him. 
Mr A also complained about the mess in his home, which included issues with some flooring. 
Im aware Protector tried to clean the carpet and has now offered £150 compensation 
because it cant fully clean it, in part, it seems, because of the carpets original condition 
before it started its work. Protector has also now also covered the cost of some lights that Mr 
A paid to replace following the work carried out by Protector.
So, Ive thought about this carefully. There will always be a certain amount of inconvenience 
that comes with any claim. However, I think there were issues that went beyond what I would 
normally expect. I think a total of £300, which includes the £150 Protector has now offered 
for the carpet, along with Protector paying for the lights, is fair in the circumstances to 
address the issues raised. Mr A has confirmed to this service that he received the payment 
for the lights. I uphold this complaint and require Protector to pay £300 compensation.
Putting things right
Protector should pay Mr A a total of £300 compensation, which includes the £150 it offered 
for the carpet.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Protector Insurance UK to pay a total of £300 compensation, which includes the £150 
compensation it offered for the carpet.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman