DRN-1715247
The complaint
Mr G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has imposed an age limit on a 
travel insurance policy provided as a benefit of its Premier account. He says that this age 
limit is discriminatory.
What happened
Mr G holds a fee-free Premier account. One of the benefits the account provides is 
worldwide travel insurance. The terms and conditions of the worldwide travel insurance say 
that it will cover accountholders up to the age of 69. But once anyone who is insured by the 
policy reaches the age of 70, they are no longer covered by the policy.
Mr G says the HSBC Premier account offers far less to those who are over 70 than to those 
who are under 70. So he says HSBC is discriminating against customers aged 70 or over by 
including this age limit on the Premier account travel insurance.
To resolve his complaint, Mr G has asked that HSBC: offer the equivalent cost that it bears 
for offering the free travel insurance to under 70 years old clients towards the cost of an 
over 70s policy, or some other equivalent form of recompense.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that HSBC had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by offering travel insurance that included an upper age limit. Mr G 
didnt agree with this and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, I should explain that although this case is against HSBC, it is the insurance 
underwriter who is responsible for setting the terms, conditions, exclusions and eligibility 
requirements of the travel insurance policy. 
Therefore, I can only consider this case in the context of HSBC providing travel insurance as 
a benefit of its fee-free Premier account. And it doesnt appear to be in dispute that HSBC 
made Mr G aware of the age limit. So its clear that HSBC did what it is required to do in 
terms of making Mr G aware of the age limit on the Premier account travel insurance policy.
Turning to The Equality Act 2010, I appreciate that it banned age discrimination in the 
provision of goods and services. But there is an exception in the law for providing financial 
services such as travel insurance. The law is quite detailed on this point  but essentially it 
does allow a bank (or insurance provider) to continue to use age as a factor in designing, 
pricing and offering its insurance products. And most, if not all, travel insurance policies have 
upper age limits included in their insurance policies. So I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong or acted unfairly just because its Premier account included travel insurance that had 
an upper age limit.
Given everything, Ive seen nothing to suggest that HSBC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter. I appreciate that this may not be the outcome Mr G was hoping 
for. But I hope this decision explains why I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter. 
And because of this, I dont think it would be appropriate to require HSBC to do anything 
further. However, if Mr G remains unhappy that he will no longer be eligible for the travel 
insurance provided by the Premier account, he can contact HSBC to switch to a different 
account should he wish to do so. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman