DRN-2513785
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way AXIS Specialty Europe SE has calculated the price he pays 
for a Home and Holiday Home Insurance policy.
What happened
In 2015, Mr G took out a Home and Holiday Home Insurance policy through a broker which 
Ill refer to as S, to cover a holiday home he has in another country. During the sale of the 
policy, he answered questions about his holiday home and how it was built. S recorded the 
information he gave and provided a quote. Mr G took up the quote he was offered. At this 
point, his policy was insured by a different insurer.
Subsequently, in 2019, AXIS started insuring Mr Gs policy. Mr G paid a renewal price of 
£1443.39 to cover the 2020-21 policy year, which was due to begin on 12 January 2020. 
However, shortly before the renewal date, Mr G got in touch with AXIS to enquire about 
outbuildings cover. At this point, AXIS learned that when it sold the policy, S hadnt asked Mr 
G for enough information about the way his home was built. AXIS stated that Mr Gs home 
included more glass in its construction than itd believed. It said if it had had more 
information about the non-standard construction of his holiday home; it wouldve charged a 
higher price of around £3000. But it agreed to honour the 2020 policy price at £1443.39 to 
give Mr G a chance to shop around over the following 12 months.
Mr G was very unhappy with the way AXIS had calculated his price and he asked us to look 
into his complaint. In summary, he said that hed given S the right information when he took 
out the policy. He felt AXIS was treating him unfairly. He didnt agree with the way AXIS had 
categorised his holiday home and he sent us drawings of it. And he said that as he had two 
potential claims logged with AXIS, he wasnt able to find cover elsewhere. He was 
concerned that at renewal in January 2021, his policy price would almost double.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He explained that we cant 
tell insurers what price they can charge for insurance, but we can check if a price has been 
calculated fairly. He felt that the main reasons for the proposed price increase were that S 
hadnt asked Mr G enough questions about how his house was built and that AXIS had a 
different view of the risk to the previous insurer. He considered that Mr G had benefitted from 
AXIS not having all of the information it said it required, as hed paid a lower price than hed 
otherwise have done. He felt AXIS offer not to increase the policy premium at the 2020 
renewal was fair and reasonable. Overall, he felt AXIS had treated Mr G fairly and that it was 
entitled to charge what it considered a fair amount for the risk it was being asked to cover.
Since the investigator issued his assessment, AXIS has told us that at the January 2021 
renewal, it charged Mr G a premium of £1494.22  a total increase of £50.83 on the 2020 
price, to take into account indexation. It told us thered been no premium increase for any 
other reason. So our investigator asked Mr G for his comments.
Mr G didnt think AXIS had treated him fairly. He felt itd created an unnecessary issue by 
implying that he hadnt been upfront initially about the way how holiday home was built. Hed 
wasted lots of time in ensuring that AXIS didnt unfairly increase his price. Hed had to pay 
his premium in full, rather than monthly, which he usually preferred to do. He hasnt received 
an apology from AXIS and itd tried to hike up his prices to force him to go elsewhere. Hed 
logged two potential claims. A possible future legal expenses claim for a boundary dispute 
and a broken glass claim, where a contractor had agreed to replace the glass for free prior to 
the national lockdown, but where this offer might not now be available. 
To resolve the complaint, Mr G feels AXIS should pay him £300 compensation for the 
distress and anxiety its treatment of him has caused. He would like AXIS to agree to cover 
both the legal expenses claim, if it progresses after lockdown and the broken glass claim if 
the contractor is no longer able to replace it for free. He would also like AXIS to guarantee 
that it has no plans to increase his premium above the national average, as would be 
expected.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXIS has treated Mr G fairly. Ill explain why.
As our investigator has said, our role isnt to set the price of insurance. This is a commercial 
judgment and is something for insurers to decide. We cant tell insurers what factors they 
should take into account when assessing the risk of a policyholder making a claim, or what 
price they should charge to cover that risk. But we can make sure customers have been 
treated fairly when insurers have priced their policies and that they havent been taken 
advantage of.
Each price will be right for that particular insurer and its view of the risk and they all may be 
based on different things. Some will include new customer discounts, other may only be 
operated online and so have cheaper costs which can sometimes be reflected in cheaper 
fees. And others may offer a dedicated specialist claim handling service and support lines, 
all increasing the cost but potentially the level of service offered too. Overall, insurers offer 
products which they feel represent fair value for what they are providing.
In this case, AXIS didnt insure Mr Gs policy at the time he took it out through his broker. 
While S may remain Mr Gs broker, AXIS didnt take over the underwriting of the policy until 
2019. The fact that AXIS potentially has a different view of the risk of Mr G making a claim to 
the old insurer doesnt mean that its pricing is wrong. It simply means that the previous 
insurer may have assessed risk in a different way, or placed different weight on information 
about the property, the area and Mr G.
When AXIS took over the old insurers back-book of policies, it relied on the information the 
old insurer passed on. It wasnt entitled to make any changes to policies which were still on 
risk. But at policy renewal, an existing policy ends and a new contract begins. And at the 
point of renewal, an insurer is entitled to reassess the risk it thinks a particular property 
presents and is entitled to decide whether it still wants to offer a policy and if so, on what 
terms.
So when AXIS took on Mr Gs policy, it calculated his renewal premium based on the 
information the old insurer had about the property. I can see from AXIS records that Mr G 
spoke to AXIS on 6 January 2020 (prior to the renewal date) to confirm whether some 
outbuildings would be covered. At this point, AXIS asked Mr G some questions about how 
his property was built and it found out some more information about the way the property was constructed. It let Mr G know that the premium would go up. It seems that Mr G paid the 
original quoted premium at that point and made a complaint to AXIS. 
I appreciate Mr G feels that AXIS has suggested that he didnt give S all of the information 
he shouldve done when it sold the policy. I dont think though that this was AXIS intention. 
From AXIS notes its clear that it felt S hadnt asked Mr G enough information about the 
construction of his home and that Mr G had answered all the questions he was asked to the 
best of his knowledge and belief. Id like to reassure Mr G that Im persuaded too that he 
acted in good faith.
However, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say that AXIS was bound to a price, 
or a view of a risk by a brokers actions in 2015 for a policy which it didnt underwrite at that 
point. Its explained that once it learned about the construction of Mr Gs home, this 
increased its view of the risk of a claim being made. Non-standard properties often do attract 
a higher insurance premium. And from what Mr Gs told us, he also had two potential claims 
in progress, which can also affect the price of an insurance policy. 
Nonetheless, despite its view of the risk changing significantly, AXIS agreed to honour the 
original quoted price two days after Mr G complained about the increase  which was still 
before the actual date of renewal. This was to give Mr G the chance to look for alternative 
cover the following year. I think this response was more than fair in the circumstances and 
Im satisfied that as a result of this offer, Mr G suffered no financial loss. While I appreciate 
he says he lost the chance to pay by monthly debit, payment by this method would also have 
incurred credit charges on top of the premium. So I think Mr G has actually paid out less 
than he would otherwise have done.
Originally, AXIS intended to increase the premium at the 2021 renewal. But its confirmed to 
us that the premium only increased by around £50  to take into account indexation. So it 
seems that the additional information it learned about Mr Gs policy in January 2020 hasnt 
caused his price to increase this year either. Again, it doesnt seem to me that hes suffered 
any financial loss.
Mr G considers that AXIS should pay him £300 compensation to recognise his distress and 
inconvenience. Ive thought about this. But from AXIS records, it seems he was told about 
the price increase on 8 January 2020, at which point he paid the original premium of 
£1443.39. AXIS told Mr G two days later, on 10 January 2020, that it would honour the 
original premium. So I dont think I can fairly find that AXIS unreasonably delayed trying to 
resolve Mr Gs concerns, or that it didnt communicate its findings very promptly. I also think 
it was open to AXIS to ask for more information about the property when Mr G challenged its 
understanding about the way it was built. This would facilitate a better understanding of how 
the property was constructed and allow it to more accurately calculate the risk of a claim. 
And as Ive explained, I think AXIS acted more than fairly by honouring the original 2020 
renewal quote and only increasing the 2021 price by indexation. So I dont think AXIS has 
treated Mr G unfairly and Im not telling it to pay him any compensation.
I appreciate Mr G has logged two potential claims with AXIS, which he says preclude him 
from finding alternative cover. Its open to him to progress these claims with AXIS if he 
wishes to do so, but I need to make it clear that AXIS is entitled to assess these claims in 
line with the policy terms before deciding whether or not its prepared to cover them. Both 
claims appear to be for future possible events rather than actual loss and it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to direct AXIS to accept liability for claims it hasnt looked at. If Mr G does 
go on to make either a formal accidental damage claim for the glass, or a legal expenses 
claim for the boundary dispute and hes unhappy with the outcome of those claims, he may 
be able to bring complaints to us about those issues.As the investigator explained, I have no power to tell AXIS what price it should charge Mr G 
to insure his holiday home in the future. At the next renewal, AXIS is entitled to reassess its 
view of the risk and decide whether or not to offer cover and what price to charge. If Mr G is 
unhappy with the quote he receives, or if AXIS chooses not to offer a new contract, he may 
be able to bring that issue to us.
Overall, having considered everything, Im satisfied that AXIS has treated Mr G fairly and 
reasonably. So Im not directing it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman