DRN-3078068
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) including that he was unbale to gain access to his NS&I account having been 
notified that he had won a Premium Bond prize. 
What happened
Mr B was notified by NS&I that he had won a Premium Bond prize. Mr B attempted to log 
into his NS&I account because of this but was unable to do so. Mr B contacted NS&I to try to 
gain access to his account, but the advisor that he spoke with was rude and the matter 
remained unresolved. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Mr B also wanted to reset his NS&I password and elected to receive a new temporary 
password in the post to allow this to happen. However, when Mr B received the temporary 
password letter, he saw that it included his personal NS&I number, which he had not 
requested, and which Mr B felt was in breach of data protection. 
NS&I looked at Mr Bs complaint and explained that it was likely that it had been a technical 
issue which had prevented Mr B from accessing his account. NS&I apologised to Mr B for 
the inconvenience hed incurred and made an offer of £50 compensation to Mr B because of 
this.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, and he also wasnt happy that he hadnt 
received later calls from NS&I following further difficulties that hed had logging into his 
account. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they noted that Mr B hadnt received 
the calls from NS&I because he had a block on his telephone which prevented them from 
connecting, and they also felt that the response that NS&I had already issued to Mr B about 
his earlier complaint, including the offer of £50 compensation, already represented a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what had happened, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr B to have not been able to access 
his NS&I account having been informed by them that hed won a Premium Bond prize, and 
to then have been spoken by NS&I telephony staff in a way he considered as being rude.
In such circumstances, it would be considered good practice for NS&I to have apologised to 
Mr B and to have helped him to regain access to his account, as well as to have made an 
offer of compensation to Mr B in light of the upset and inconvenience that he incurred.
NS&I appear to have done that here. And I say this because NS&I, in their response to Mr 
Bs complaint, acknowledged that the level of service that theyd provided to him fell below 
the standard that they aspire to and its notable that NS&I made an offer of £50 
compensation to Mr B because of this.
NS&I also explained to Mr B that it was likely that the reason that hed been unable to 
access his account was because of a technical issue, and they provided a temporary 
security password to Mr B to enable him to regain access to his account and to reset his 
security password to a more permanent replacement. 
Im aware that Mr B is unhappy that the letter than NS&I sent to him which provided this 
temporary password also included his NS&I personal identity number, which he hadnt 
requested, and which Mr B feels constituted a potential data breach. Im not convinced by Mr 
Bs position here, and I dont feel that its unreasonable for NS&I to have included this 
number in their correspondence with him. Additionally, I also must be noted that, given that 
Mr B received the letter in question, it wasnt the case that his information was seen by any 
unwanted parties, and so Im satisfied that an unfair outcome hasnt arisen because of this.
Mr B is also unhappy that, on several occasions, NS&I didnt contact him by telephone when 
he was expecting them to have done so  for instance, when he had been unable to access 
his NS&I account. However, its been confirmed that Mr B has a block on his telephone that 
doesnt allow unspecified calls  which calls from NS&I would appear as being  to be 
connected. And, given that NS&I have been able to confirm that they did attempt to contact 
Mr B by telephone on a number of occasions, but were unable to get through, Im satisfied 
that the reason that NS&I werent able to contact Mr B by telephone was because of the 
block that Mr B has in place on his telephone and as such isnt something that Id consider 
holding NS&I accountable for.
I also dont feel that NS&I have unreasonably delayed Mr B accessing his account with them 
beyond that which was necessary, and I say this because Mr B was able to log into his 
account within a few days of NS&I issuing a new temporary password to him, and because 
when Mr B later had trouble logging into his account NS&I took further action to assist him 
upon being made aware by Mr B that he wasnt receiving the calls from NS&I that he was 
expecting from them to help him in this regard  which, as explained above, Im satisfied 
wasnt as a result of an error or omission made by NS&I.
Finally, it also must be noted that Mr Bs NS&I Premium Bond account balance was the 
maximum permitted by NS&I, and as such any prizes received by Mr B on the account 
wouldnt have been reinvested into the account but would have been sent to the bank 
account that Mr B held on file with NS&I to receive such prizes. Considering this, it seems 
reasonable to me that Mr B would have known the balance of his account, despite not 
having access to it temporarily, and as such I feel that the impact of Mr B not having access 
to his account was mitigated because of this. I also note that NS&I confirmed the balance of 
Mr Bs account to him on the telephone on at least one occasion during the period that Mr B 
wasnt able to access the account.
But NS&I did uphold Mr Bs complaint, and they did so because of the technical issue that 
had caused Mr B to be unable to gain access to his account and on the basis of the service 
that Mr B received from NS&I when contacting them by telephone. And NS&I apologised to 
Mr B because of this and made an offer of £50 compensation to him. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. However, 
while I appreciate that Mr B will disagree, the £50 that NS&I have already offered to Mr B here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service 
would expect, given the circumstances. 
Mr B has explained that he feels that as a vulnerable customer NS&Is offer of compensation 
doesnt go far enough. I can appreciate the strength of Mr Bs feelings here, but I dont feel 
that the particular circumstances of this complaint are such that any further compensation 
beyond the £50 that NS&I have already offered is merited in this instance, even taking into 
account Mr Bs status as a vulnerable customer. And I say this because I dont feel that Mr 
B, as a vulnerable customer, has been further impacted by the elements of what has 
happened here for which NS&I are offering compensation because of his being a vulnerable 
customer. 
All of which means that I feel that the response that NS&I have already issued to Mr B in 
regard to this complaint, including the offer of £50 compensation, already represents a fair 
and reasonable resolution to what has happened here, and it follows from this that my final 
decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NS&I to take any 
further action at this time, beyond that which theyve already offered to Mr B.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting, but I trust that Mr B will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman