DRN-3484832
The complaint
Mr I complains that Equifax Limited didnt deal with his request to amend his credit file.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr I contacted Equifax as hed seen information about a third party on his 
credit file. In August 2020, Equifax asked Mr I for a copy of his birth certificate, passport and 
driving licence so that it could investigate further.
Mr I brought his complaint to this service in May 2020 as the third party data was preventing 
him from obtaining credit. 
Equifax sent Mr I a final response in October 2020. Equifax explained again what documents 
it needed to see to prove Mr Is identity as by that point it had only received a copy of Mr Is 
driving licence.
The original investigator considering Mr Is complaint thought it was reasonable of Equifax to 
ask for additional verification documents. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld and 
recommended that Mr I should send Equifax a copy of his birth certificate and passport.
Mr I explained he couldnt provide a copy of his birth certificate and questioned why Equifax 
wouldnt accept the evidence hed provided. 
Towards the end of 2021, this service sent Equifax further evidence of Mr Is identity. Equifax 
asked whether Mr I knew the third party. Mr I confirmed that he did and in February 2022, 
Equifax raised a dispute with the business that created the alias link.
A second investigator recommended that Mr Is complaint be upheld. He thought that as 
soon as Mr I provided his driving licence in October 2020, it was clear thered been a 
mistake as the third party had a different surname and date of birth. The investigator thought 
that Equifax shouldve taken steps to correct the information on Mr Is credit file. As Mr I first 
raised his concerns in March 2020, the investigator thought Equifax should pay him £200 to 
apologise.
Equifax disagrees with the investigators recommendation. It doesnt think it was clear that 
the third party was not Mr I. Equifax says that it wrote to Mr I in August 2020 asking him to 
provide certain documents and that he only supplied his drivers licence. Equifax wanted to 
see identification documents that pre-dated 2018. 
Equifax points out that after this service opened Mr Is complaint in September 2020, it didnt 
hear anything further until August 2021. After Mr I submitted further documentation, Equifax 
raised the dispute with the business. So, Equifax doesnt agree that its made any mistake. 
Equifax also points out that Mr I successfully applied for a mobile phone account in late 2021 
which demonstrates that the third party information on his credit report hasnt negatively 
impacted his ability to secure credit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems the third party data ended up on Mr Is credit file because a business created an 
alias link between Mr I and the third party. An alias is a record of a name that someone has 
used or been known by in the past. On its website, Equifax explains that it will only be able 
to remove the alias record if theres no information in the persons alias name. 
Equifax says that based on Mr Is driving licence alone, it wasnt clear that the alias didnt 
belong to him. However, I tend to agree with the investigator that once Mr I provided his 
driving licence, Equifax had enough information to at least raise a query with the business 
that had created the link. Instead it took until the end of 2021  some 18 months later  for 
Equifax to raise a dispute on Mr Is behalf. 
Once Mr I, through this service, supplied a copy of his passport and national ID card, it still 
took Equifax a further two months to confirm that it had raised a dispute with the business. 
And as at early 2022, Equifax said it hadnt heard back from the business  leading to further 
delays in the removal of the third party data.
At the end of the day, Mr I - through no fault of his own  has had someone elses data on 
his credit file since at least 2020. Although Mr I appears to have made successful credit 
applications in the meantime, its fair for him to have been concerned about the impact the 
data has had on his credit file for an extended period. In the circumstances, I agree its 
reasonable for Equifax to pay Mr I £200 as suggested by the investigator. 
Putting things right
Equifax Limited should pay Mr I £200.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require Equifax Limited to 
pay Mr I £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman