DRN-3844139
The complaint
Mr D complains about the difficulties hes had in trying to take the benefits from his section 
32 pension plan held with Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) over a considerable 
period of time. Aegon says he can only take the benefits in the way he intends by arranging 
it through a financial adviser, which Mr D has been unable to do and thinks is unnecessary.
What happened
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator sent both 
parties her assessment of the complaint on 8 September 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint were set out in her assessment. But in brief, Mr D engaged 
the services of an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) and the IFA wrote to Aegon in 
November 2020 requesting information about the pension. Aegon informed the IFA that the 
value of the fund reserved to provide the equivalent of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP) was insufficient to pay it at that time. 
Following further exchanges between Mr D and Aegon Mr D told Aegon on 18 March 2021 
that his intention was to take the GMP from the reserved fund, move the rest into a policy 
with Aegon to release £50,000 tax free cash, and then move away the crystallised benefits. 
Aegon responded to say that Mr D could take his GMP, and that he would need to contact 
another firm that it used to provide annuities to arrange to provide it. But it said for the 
internal transfer Mr D would need to consult a financial adviser to provide appropriate 
guidance due to the complexities of the transaction. 
There followed a series of exchanges between Mr D and Aegon - Mr D attempting
to clarify what he needed to do to take his pension and what paperwork needed to be 
completed  and whether he needed to complete the forms that hed been sent himself, or if 
he needed the help of a financial adviser. Aegon said Mr D needed to complete the process 
via an IFA because of the protected cash free element of the policy. It also set out what the 
financial adviser would need to do.
In August 2021 the annuity provider used by Aegon to provide the GMP contacted Aegon 
relaying Mr Ds message that he was finding it difficult to find an adviser to help him with the 
transaction; some had said the pot was too small to advise on, and others didnt cover 
section 32 plans. Aegon said that Mr D didnt specifically need to be advised on the plan, but 
needed an adviser to submit the application. Mr D subsequently confirmed he had appointed 
another adviser and queried what form he needed to complete. He also queried a
£6,000 fee that Aegon was paying the annuity provider. Aegon replied confirming which 
forms needed to be completed and by who. It also said the fee in question was covered by
Aegon.
Mr D told Aegon that hed have to pay £6,000 for adviser fees. Aegon explained the reasons 
why an advisers involvement was necessary. Mr D told Aegon hed received the forms but 
didnt understand certain parts and required assistance with them. Aegon answered the 
queries and said to provide the financial adviser with the forms so that they could all be sent 
together.
Mr D subsequently told Aegon that his adviser wasnt willing to help with the transaction as 
its compliance team felt uncomfortable with the way in which the section 32 was structured. 
Mr D expressed his frustration at how long the process was taking, and that Aegon required 
him to use a financial adviser despite already knowing what he wanted to do. 
Mr D complained to Aegon and subsequently referred the matter to us. As I said above, it 
was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator said, in summary, that the initial 
correspondence Aegon sent out about Mr D accessing his benefits confirmed that Mr D 
wouldnt be able to transfer the GMP element of his pension. It said the transfer value of the 
reserved units didnt meet the value required to provide the GMP.
The investigator thought that Aegon had complied with the relevant legislation and the 
original policy terms. She said when the plan was set up in 1993 it provided for the GMP of 
£7,578. She said this was a valuable benefit, and subsequently became known as a 
Safeguarded benefit. The investigator said there were rules in place that firms had to follow 
when dealing with this type of benefit. 
The investigator said Aegon was liable to meet the cost of providing the GMP when Mr D 
reached aged 65, irrespective of the value of the underlying fund. And she didnt think Aegon 
had done anything wrong or caused any delays when initially responding to Mr Ds queries 
about taking his pension. 
The investigator said that when Mr D had alerted Aegon to how he wanted to take his 
benefits in March 2021 Aegon had explained what Mr D needed to do to achieve his aim. 
The investigator said she thought Aegon had explained that Mr D would need to 
communicate with the business that provided its annuities (for the GMP) as well as seek the 
help of a financial adviser in relation to the transfer element. She said Aegon had correctly 
said that due to the complex nature of the transaction it would require adviser involvement. 
The investigator said it was up to individual businesses to decide what work they wanted to 
undertake. And in her view Aegons requirement for an advisers involvement was credible.
The investigator said when Mr D sought clarification as to what forms were required Aegon 
had explained what was required. She said Aegon were prompt in answering the questions 
asked of it.
The investigator acknowledged that Mr D would likely have been frustrated given the 
difficulties finding an adviser. She said as the section 32 plan contained Safeguarded 
benefits an adviser would require a higher level of knowledge and experience to advise on a 
plan of this nature. However the investigator didnt think there was anything inherently 
peculiar with the way Mr Ds plan had been structured; albeit there could be a number of 
reasons why an adviser firm might decide it didnt want to be involved in a transaction.
Having considered all the correspondence, the investigator thought Aegon had been ready 
to action Mr Ds instructions and had acted in a timely manner when responding to 
correspondence. The investigator thought that Mr Ds main issue was with the conditions 
that applied to taking the benefits from the plan, and in particular sourcing an adviser. But 
she thought Aegon had adhered to legislation relevant to the transaction and had a duty to 
protect Mr D as its client. The investigator was satisfied that once Aegon had received the 
correct paperwork from a financial adviser it would carry out what Mr D originally intended. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings. He said the value of his fund was well over 
£200,000 in January 2021 when he initially wanted to take his pension. But by August 2022 it had fallen to about £197,000. He said the pension should have been paid in January 2021, 
and the delay in paying it had had a direct negative impact on him.
Mr D said Aegon had changed the rules since hed taken out the pension. And its insistence 
on a financial adviser was unnecessary. He said he had spent a lot of time trying to find an 
adviser that would work for him but that none could be found.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clearly I understand Mr Ds frustration with trying to access his pension. It should be a fairly 
straightforward matter and take a few weeks  not months or years. However in deciding 
whether to uphold Mr Ds complaint I have to decide whether the delay has been because 
the firm has done something wrong. And even though on the face of it the time taken 
obviously appears to be too long, I dont think thats a result of errors made by the firm. 
Like the investigator, it appears to me that the main problem is in Aegon requiring Mr D to 
use a financial adviser to complete the paperwork for the transaction. Mr D has said he 
doesnt think its necessary as he knows what he wants to do.
I think the starting point is that pensions can be complex. There are a number of different 
types of pensions and some provide guaranteed benefits that can be very valuable  but not 
obviously so. The government introduced legislation requiring pension plan holders/ 
members to take advice about their pensions in some circumstances where their value was 
over a certain amount. 
As the investigator explained, there are known as safeguarded benefits. They offer certain 
valuable guarantees that can be lost if they are transferred or converted to access flexible 
benefits. So the legislation was to ensure that pension members who were considering 
giving up these guarantees were aware of their value when making that decision. 
Mr Ds pension was a section 32 plan. The plan did contain some safeguarded benefits  the 
GMP that the section 32 was bound to provide when Mr D reached aged 65. So on the one 
hand extra care needed to be taken with Mr Ds pension to ensure he was aware of the 
value of these guaranteed benefits.
However, Mr Ds section 32 was structured in such a way that the GMP was provided by 
only part of his pension fund. The pension was split into two parts  the reserved fund and 
the non-reserved fund. Aegon was obliged to provide the GMP from the reserved fund only. 
As Mr Ds intention was to take the GMP as an annuity using the reserved fund, he wasnt 
accessing his safeguarded benefits flexibly. 
The difficulties arose, and Aegons requirement for him to use the services of an adviser, 
because of the particular way that Mr D wanted to take the other benefits from the plan. He 
wanted to take the maximum tax-free cash available from the plan based on the section 32s 
full value (protected tax-free cash), which would be taken from the non-reserved fund, take 
the GMP as an annuity (which would be provided by the reserved fund), and transfer what 
was left of the non-reserved fund (after paying the full tax-free cash amount) into a flexi-
access drawdown arrangement. 
Mr Ds section 32 was arranged in 1993. Although there are now a number of ways in which 
members can take their pension benefits the options were much more limited in 1993. And 
this was reflected in the section 32s terms and conditions. The contract didnt provide an option for Mr D to transfer to a flexi-access drawdown plan when taking his benefits.
The Pension Freedoms legislation introduced in 2015 allowing more flexible access in the 
way pensions could be taken was enabling  in that pension providers werent obliged to 
amend their existing contracts to provide the flexibilities provided for in the legislation. 
Instead pension plan holders/members could move their pensions to other contracts that did 
allow for these additional flexibilities if they wanted to take advantage of them. 
Because of the particular structure of this section 32 plan, in order for Mr D to take the 
maximum tax-free cash (based on the whole fund value) and transfer to the flexi-access 
drawdown plan, he needs to crystallise the whole fund at the same time. So firstly there 
must be sufficient value in the non-reserved value to cover the total tax-free cash paid  
which there is here. And secondly, the whole plan must be surrendered at the same time. 
Aegon has said that if the reserved funds are taken first to set up the GMP, then the 25% 
tax-free cash entitlement would be calculated on only the remaining non-reserved funds. So 
this would result in a lower tax-free cash sum. And similarly, if the non-reserved funds are 
taken first, either transferring to a new provider or taking tax-free cash and moving to a flexi-
access drawdown,  the tax-free cash entitlement would again be a lower amount. Aegon has 
said once Mr D takes the full tax-free cash the remaining fund is crystalised and must be 
transferred as a drawdown to drawdown transfer. It said no other provider would accept the 
funds on any other basis.
Aegon has said the entity that provides the flexi-access drawdown arrangement (Aegon 
Investment Solutions Ltd) only accepts such business through advisers  as it doesnt 
consider it a low-risk option.  That is a commercial business decision that the firm is entitled 
to make - in effect mitigating the risk of transacting unsuitable business. Accordingly, in order 
to provide Mr D with what he wants, Aegon must have all the paperwork and documentation 
completed to process the full plan in one go. And from a financial adviser.
I realise that Mr D had been unable to find an adviser that will help him with the transaction. 
The structure of this section 32 plan isnt as common as some others  however like the 
investigator Ive not seen anything suspicious about it. A lot of section 32 plans dont 
separate out part of the fund to provide the GMP  they are able to use the whole fund value 
to provide it. And in many cases the GMP costs more than the whole fund value so no tax-
free cash is payable, The providing firm has to fund the additional amount needed to buy the 
GMP. So the reserved/non-reserved fund structure of this section 32 is a positive feature of 
it. In my experience it is less common. But equally, Im not entirely sure why advisers would 
have reservations about it. 
But taking all the above into account, I think Aegon is entitled to require Mr D to use the 
services of a financial adviser to take the benefits in the way he originally intended and make 
use of the flexi-access drawdown product.
I recognise this poses a problem for Mr D given the advisers he has tried to engage to date 
have dropped out of helping him for one reason and another. I asked Aegon if there were 
any ways for Mr D to take his benefits without the help of an adviser. One option, subject to 
the current values enabling it, would be for Mr D to take the full tax-free cash based on the 
total value from the non-reserved fund, the GMP from the reserved fund, and then buy an 
annuity with what was left over of the non-reserved fund. This was an option originally 
available on the section 32. I realise that this isnt the form of benefits that Mr D ideally 
requires, and there could be advantages/disadvantages in taking benefits this way. I am not 
advising Mr D to do so (and nor is Aegon). However it is an option for Mr D to consider doing 
himself albeit it would be prudent to discuss it with an adviser (I dont think Mr D would likely 
find advisers so reluctant to help with that option if he wanted advice about it). So in summary, Mr D does have the option of taking his benefits without the need of the 
involvement of a financial adviser; albeit not in the form he originally requested. Mr D can 
also contact Aegon direct to see if there are any other alternative options available. However 
if Mr D still wants to take the pension in the way he originally intended, for the reasons Ive 
set out, I think Aegon is entitled to require the assistance of a financial adviser. Mr D will 
unfortunately therefore still need to find an adviser who will help with the paperwork to do 
that if he is adamant he wants to take his benefits in that particular form.
I appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed with my findings and isnt the outcome he wanted. 
However for the reasons Ive outlined above and for those set out by the investigator, I 
havent been persuaded that Aegon has acted unreasonably or in an untimely manner in the 
particular circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman