DRN-3636098
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include
claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a four-wheel drive car first registered in
2015. Mr P acquired the car on a personal contract plan (PCP) in September 2018.
For the year from late November 2018, Mr P insured the car on a comprehensive policy with
Admiral. The policy covered use for social, domestic and pleasure and commuting purposes.
From April 2019 to June 2019, Mr P asked Admiral to add a series of about nine temporary
drivers onto his policy and Admiral agreed.
In June 2019, Mr P also had a hatchback. Mr P had that car insured car on a comprehensive
policy with Admiral or an associated company. In June 2019, Mr P made a claim in relation
to that hatchback. Admiral sent an investigator to interview Mr P.
In November 2019, Mr P reported the theft of the four-wheel drive car. He said that he had
lent it to a woman. She wasnt insured as a driver on Mr Ps policy with Admiral.
In late December 2019, Admiral turned down Mr Ps claim in relation to the four-wheel drive
car. It said the policy had been void from April 2019 because Mr P had been renting out that
vehicle.
In early 2020, Mr P complained to Admiral that it wasnt treating him fairly. By a final
response dated late May 2020, Admiral turned down the complaint.
Through us, Mr P complained to Admiral again in March 2021. By a final response dated late
March 2021, Admiral referred to its earlier final response. Admiral said it had completed a
review of the claim. It turned down the complaint. Mr P asked us to investigate his complaint
further in early August 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
she should tell Admiral to treat the policy as valid. She said that, in any event, the vehicle
was not being driven by someone insured under Mr Ps policy with Admiral. So Admiral still
wouldnt pay the claim.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P   
and to Admiral on 11 July 2022. I summarise my findings:
Mr P had recklessly made a qualifying misrepresentation. So CIDRA entitled
Admiral to treat the policy as void and to keep the premium. I didnt consider that 
Admiral treated Mr P unfairly by taking those steps.
In any event, the policy didnt cover the theft of the four-wheel drive vehicle while it 
was rented out to a woman who the policy didnt cover.
As my decision contained some reasons (for example concerning CIDRA) which 
werent mentioned by the investigator, it was only fair that Mr P (and Admiral) should 
have an opportunity to consider my provisional decision and to respond.
Subject to any further information from Mr P or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
 Mr P disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
Admiral knew the whole way he was lending out his vehicle. They even sent an 
inspector and he even told him the truth and still no one got in touch. Admiral should 
have stopped his policy at that time. Instead they waited until his car got stolen. And 
they still kept all the policy money too.
He knows that Admiral paid out for the hatchback. He knows this because his friend 
who was driving the vehicle at the time admitted it was his fault. So that would mean 
Admiral would have paid out for the hatchback even though they knew he had lent it 
out. 
He is stressed and panicking because if his payment for the four-wheel-drive car gets 
put into default, he is going to lose everything. He cannot afford such a large amount 
to pay.
A big company like Admiral has millions of pounds.
His insurance policy should cover his first party theft claim.
He is miserable, depressed and absolutely anxious. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has described some signs of anxiety and depression. He may be able to get help from, 
or through, his GP surgery.
I keep in mind the disparity between Mr Ps financial resources and Admirals. I also keep in 
mind the financial consequences for him if the finance company records a default under the 
PCP. However, I have to take into account the relevant law in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable.
The insurance certificate was a one-page document. It included the following:The Policy does not cover:
 Use for merchandise delivery, renting out, peer to peer hire schemes (including
when the hirer is using your vehicle) or used for hire and reward including but not
limited to taxiing and chauffeuring whether licensed or unlicensed
So I find that it was clear that the policy wouldnt cover Mr P for renting out his vehicle.
The policy terms contained general exceptions including the following:
You will not be covered for any liabilities you may have for any of the following:
1. Any accident, injury, loss, theft or damage which happens while your car is:
used by a person or for any purpose not shown on your current Certificate of
Motor Insurance
So I find that it was clear that the policy wouldnt cover Mr P for theft of the vehicle while it
was being rented out.
The policy also contained the following term about cancellation:
If you or anyone acting for you makes or supports a fraudulent claim against us or
deliberately or recklessly provides us with false information when taking out the
policy, making changes to it or at renewal that would either impact the terms and
conditions or our ability to offer cover itself, your policy and all other policies to which
you are connected through [associated company] will be cancelled or voided. We will
seek to recover any costs we have incurred and will not return any premium. For
further information see General Condition 9.
General Condition 9 was as follows:
9 Fraud
If you or anyone acting for you recklessly or deliberately misrepresents information at
any time during the policy that would impact either the terms and conditions or our
ability to offer cover itself, your policy and all other policies to which you are
connected through [associated company] will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to
recover any costs we have incurred and will not return any premium.
We will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if you or
anyone acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false way, or where we have
been given a false statement, or any documents which are false or stolen. Your
policy and all other policies to which you are connected through [associated
company] will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to recover any costs that have
been incurred and will not return any premium.
I find that it was clear that if Mr P (including when making changes to the policy) deliberately
or recklessly provided Admiral with false information that would impact Admirals ability to
offer cover, the policy would be cancelled or voided, and Admiral would not return any
premium.
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) puts a duty on a
consumer to take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation to an insurer when
taking out or varying a policy.
From Companies House records, I find that Mr P was a director of a company in the
business of renting out vehicles from about May 2019.From an online advertisement, I find that Mr P or his company offered his four-wheel drive
car for hire at £199.00 per day  with insurance available.
As Admirals policy for Mr P didnt cover any of the temporary drivers before they were
added, I find that their addition was a variation of the policy.
Admirals records show that Mr P asked Admiral on several occasions to add a temporary
driver. Theres no evidence that Admiral asked Mr P a clear question whether he was renting
his vehicle out.
However, on many of those occasions, the records show that Admiral asked the purpose of
the temporary cover and Mr P said that the purpose was to cover the temporary driver for a
trip to a wedding. The records show that Mr P sometimes described the temporary driver as
a friend, but not as a hirer or customer.
Admirals records dont show that Mr P ever mentioned renting out his vehicle.
Notwithstanding the absence of a clear question about renting out, I find that on several
occasions Mr P made a misrepresentation as to the purpose of the temporary cover.
As he mustve known that he was renting out his vehicle for payment, I consider that Mr P
failed to take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation. Indeed, it happened so
often that I cant avoid finding that Mr P was reckless as to whether or not he told Admiral
the truth about the purpose of the temporary cover.
I reject Mr Ps suggestion that Admiral ought reasonably to have known that he was renting
out his vehicle. As Admirals policy for Mr P didnt cover renting out his vehicle, I find it more
likely that, if it thought that Mr P was renting out his vehicle, Admiral wouldve reminded Mr P
that the policy didnt cover it and it wouldve declined to add the temporary driver.
So the misrepresentation of the purpose of adding the temporary drivers made a difference
to Admiral. I find that it was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
In June 2019, a driver of the hatchback was involved in an incident. Admiral began an 
investigation. Admirals investigator interviewed Mr P. The driver made a statement that he 
had rented the hatchback from Mr Ps company. 
From about the same time, Mr P stopped asking Admiral to add temporary drivers on the 
policy for the four-wheel drive car. And the certificate of insurance made it clear that the 
policy wouldnt cover Mr P for renting out his vehicle. So I dont accept that Admiral did 
anything wrong by not voiding the policy earlier. 
Mr P has said that Admiral paid his claim for the hatchback. But If Admiral had paid the 
claim, then there would be communications and evidence of payment. I havent seen any 
such evidence either from Mr P or on Admirals file. Indeed, Admirals file contains notes that 
it shouldnt pay either the June 2019 claim for the hatchback or the November 2019 claim for 
the four-wheel-drive car. So I dont find that Admiral or an associated company met Mr Ps 
claim on his policy for the hatchback.
When he rented the four-wheel drive vehicle to the woman, Mr P didnt add her as a
temporary driver on Admirals policy. Instead, he got her to take out cover from an insurer
specialist in cover by the day.
After she failed to return the vehicle, Mr P contacted police and the specialist insurer. But
about a week went by before Mr P contacted Admiral.I dont under-estimate the loss to Mr P of a vehicle that still had finance outstanding. But
Ive found that Mr P had recklessly made a qualifying misrepresentation. So CIDRA entitled
Admiral to treat the policy as void and to keep the premium. I dont consider that Admiral
treated Mr P unfairly by taking those steps.
In any event, the policy didnt cover the theft of the four-wheel drive vehicle while it was
rented out to a woman who the policy didnt cover.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to change its position that the policy was
void or to deal with Mr Ps theft claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman