DRN-1862598
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-advised him about a debit card 
chargeback.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr M bought a used car from a garage, using his Barclays Visa debit card. 
But he was unhappy with the car as it had a number of faults. A mechanic who checked the 
car confirmed there were issues. But the garage didnt agree and refused to take the car 
back. So Mr M made a chargeback claim.
Barclays initially sent the claim paperwork to the wrong address, which meant Mr M wasnt 
able to make the claim until the very last day for doing so. He provided the evidence to his 
local Barclays branch, who submitted the claim for him. The garage didnt accept the claim, 
so Barclays took it Visa for arbitration. But Visa declined the claim.
Mr M has complained that Barclays advised him to keep the car until the chargeback claim 
was finished, and that this advice caused the claim to fail. Barclays didnt agree with Mr M, 
but they said theyd made some errors when dealing with the claim. They offered Mr M £150 
for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused. Mr M didnt accept this offer and brought 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said it was Barclays process to tell customers not to try and progress 
matters when a claim is ongoing. And this meant keeping possession of the goods if the 
business has refused to accept a return. But he also said that Barclays had made it clear to 
Visa that the garage had refused to take the car back, and thats why Mr M still had it.
So he felt Visa had the full details when they made their decision to decline the claim. And 
he didnt hold Barclays responsible for Visas decision. But the investigator felt that Barclays 
had caused Mr M some frustration and inconvenience with how they dealt with his claim. He 
thought the offer theyd made was reasonable in the circumstances, so he didnt recommend 
they did anything more.
The investigator also explained that we couldnt look into the chargeback claim arbitration 
itself, as part of this claim, as this was dealt with by Visa, not by Barclays.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator and he feels that Barclays didnt send us all of the 
evidence  specifically copies of phone calls. And he doesnt think its fair that Barclays 
represented him in a chargeback claim, when Barclays were also making the decision on 
whether to pay the claim or not. He feels that Barclays not telling him the car must be 
returned to the garage was the sole cause of the Visa chargeback claim failing.
Mr M has also explained in detail why he thinks the decision made by Visa was an incorrect 
interpretation of the legal position. Hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset this situation has caused Mr M. Hes now in a position 
where he has a car he believes in unsafe to drive, and which has no MOT, so hes not able 
to sell it. Ive looked at the process Barclays followed for the chargeback. Because the 
garage disputed the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality, the matter went to arbitration. This 
means the decision on the chargeback was made by Visa Global, and not by Barclays. 
So, while I appreciate the situation Mr M now finds himself in, Im only looking at what 
Barclays did, and not the decision made by Visa. For me to agree Barclays should refund Mr 
M the purchase price of the car, Id need to be satisfied their advice or actions were the sole 
reason the chargeback claim failed. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its not disputed that Mr M was unhappy with the quality of the car he bought, or that the 
garage he bought it from didnt agree it was faulty and refused to take it back. Its also not 
disputed that Barclays told Mr M to keep the car because the garage wouldnt take it back. 
Because these are undisputed facts, I dont need to listen to the phone calls where Barclays 
advised Mr M not to dispose of the car while the chargeback claim was ongoing.
Ive seen the letter sent by Visa when they rejected the claim. This says Barclays provided a 
detailed explanation of how and when the cardholder attempted to return the merchandise. 
And Visas Dispute Conditions say that if the Cardholder is unable to return merchandise  
it is sufficient for the Cardholder to attempt to return the merchandise.
Based on this, I dont agree Visa rejected the claim because Mr M still had possession of the 
car. So Barclays telling Mr M not to dispose of the car had no bearing on the outcome.
Visas letter explains Barclays failed to include the disposition of the merchandise so they 
are financially liable for the disputed amount  this was why the claim was rejected. Visas 
Dispute Conditions say that, where goods were attempted to be returned, then certain 
supporting evidence has to be provided. Including disposition of the merchandise.
Barclays have explained that disposition of the merchandise wasnt relevant to this claim, 
so it couldnt be provided to Visa. This is because Mr M bought the car on a sold as seen 
basis. Theyve also said customers cant dispute this type of transactions under a 
chargeback claim, so they shouldnt have let the claim get as far as it did.
Theres no doubt Barclays made mistakes when dealing with the claim. They sent paperwork 
to the wrong address, which couldve meant Mr M missed the opportunity to make the claim. 
What it did mean was he had to chase for the paperwork and was put under unnecessary 
time pressure to complete everything before the time for making the claim passed.
And Barclays shouldve explained to Mr M that his claim wasnt suitable for arbitration with 
Visa, because of the sold as seen purchase terms. Not doing so gave Mr M false hope that 
his claim might be successful. Additionally, Barclays have said there was an unnecessary 
delay in telling Mr M the outcome of the claim, and they didnt respond to his complaint.
But I havent seen anything that shows me the claim only failed because of something 
Barclays did or didnt do. If theyd sent the paperwork to the correct address, and if theyd 
explained to Mr M that sold as seen meant the claim wouldnt be successful at arbitration; 
then the outcome would still have been the same.So I dont agree that Barclays should pay Mr M the value of his claim. But I do think the £150 
theyve offered his is reasonable in the circumstances; its in line with what I wouldve told 
them to do if they hadnt made an offer. So I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more.
Its now up to Mr M to decide whether to accept the £150 offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman