DRN-3809628
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr P was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. He paid an advance payment of £10,000, and the agreement was for £16,750 over 31 
months; with 30 monthly repayments of £145.98, and a final optional payment of £15,978.48. 
At the time of supply, the car was just over five years old and had done 43,621 miles.
Shortly after being supplied with the car, Mr P reported a problem with the gearbox  the car 
was juddering and jolting. He took it back to the supplying dealership, who said they fixed 
the car. But Mr P says the problem continued. The dealership looked at the car again but 
said that they couldnt find a fault with the car.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and complained to BMW. While Mr P had provided an undated 
report saying the problem was still present, BMW said that a report from the manufacturer 
said there were no problems with the gearbox. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that there had been a fault with the car. But he said 
that the report saying there was still a problem with the car was undated, and the report Mr P 
had done by the manufacturer said there was no problem with the car. So, based on the 
information available to him, the investigator said he couldnt conclude there were ongoing 
problems with the car.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator, and he provided a copy of a report for an inspection 
dated 13 May 2020 which detailed problems with the car. He also supplied a follow up report 
dated 28 August 2022. But he didnt supply a copy of the manufacturers report. Mr P said 
that hed raised the issues with the car within days of taking delivery and the dealership 
looked at it twice and that, when he took it to the manufacturer, they said there was a 
problem with the front and rear brake discs which all needed replacing. Mr P was also 
unhappy that he had been lumbered with a car that clearly has a gearbox issue.
The investigator didnt think that Mr Ps comments changed his view, so Mr P asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr P was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMW 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMW can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr P to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr P took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask BMW to put this right.
In considering whether there was a fault with the car, Ive seen Mr P had the car inspected 
on 13 May 2022. This inspection report says the car jolts when pulling off or slowing down, 
and the mechanic suspected it may be a valve body or solenoid issue. The car was 
inspected again on 28 August 2022, by the same company, and they said that all of the 
issues in the previous report were still present. However, I have noted that these reports only 
indicate what may be the problem, and dont identify a specific fault/faults. Mr P has said 
that, because of the issues with the car, hes hardly used it.
Ive seen the dealership have explained that the car was examined by one of the 
manufacturers technical mechanics. And they said the jolting could be caused by modern 
gearboxes [learning] the drive style, and it was thought [Mr P] has a totally different drive 
style to the previous owner. Because of this, they reset the adaptations and said they 
explained to Mr P the drive style will improve with usage as the adaptations bed in, we 
drove the vehicle back to the customer and were very happy with its operation and no fault 
evident. The dealership also confirmed that they were able to test drive the car for around 
100 miles without issue.
The job cards from the dealership also show that a solenoid was replaced. And Ive noted 
this was one of the things the mechanic who inspected the car in May 2022 (after the 
solenoid had been replaced) thought might be causing the issue.
While Ive not seen the report the manufacturer did for Mr P, hes confirmed that no problem 
with the gearbox was found, and the only issue was worn brake discs. The report(s) Mr P 
has provided refer to the symptoms with the car, and dont identify any underlying fault. 
While theres speculation as to what may be the problem, one of these speculations relates 
to a part that was recently replaced  the solenoid  so I dont think its likely thats the issue.Given the above, Im not satisfied theres a problem with the gearbox on the car. The car has 
been checked twice by the manufacturer, initially when a specialist technical mechanic 
inspected the car while at the dealership, and subsequently when Mr P arranged for the car 
to be inspected; and the conclusion was that the issues that Mr P is experiencing are most 
likely down to his driving style being significantly different to the previous owner, and the 
gearbox needing to adapt to this. Which requires the car to be driven, something Mr P has 
confirmed is not happening.
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, I wont be asking 
BMW to repair the car, or allow him to reject it.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman