DRN-3891063
Complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan Zopa Bank Limited (trading as Zopa) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Zopa provided Mr W with a loan for £10,000.00 in April 2021. This loan had an APR of 
16.7% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£11,700.84, including interest, fees and charges of £1,700.84, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of approaching £500. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint and she thought Zopa ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr W his loan. So she thought Mr Ws complaint 
should be upheld. 
Zopa disagreed with the outcome and so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Zopa needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is Zopa 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Zopa has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks before it 
provided this loan. The results of which showed that Mr W was close to his limit on his 
revolving credit accounts. I dont think that this in itself means that Zopa shouldnt have lent. 
But given the amount being advanced and the size of the monthly payments, which were 
going to be taking up a reasonable proportion of Mr Ws income, I do think that Zopa ought 
to have carried out further enquiries into Mr Ws circumstances. 
Mr W has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr W has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Zopa mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Zopa showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what this information says as an indication of what Mr Ws financial circumstances were 
more likely than not to have been at the time. 
I also think its important for me to set out that Zopa was required to establish whether Mr W 
could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The information provided 
shows that Mr W spending well in excess of his income on gambling and that his ability to 
make the repayments to this loan would in large part be dependent on his success as a 
gambler. 
As this is the case, I think that proportionate checks are likely to have shown Zopa that Mr W 
was unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. So Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like 
than not have shown Zopa that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr W. As Zopa 
provided Mr W with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr W has ended up paying (and is being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on a 
loan he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr W lost out because of 
what Zopa did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, Zopa should put things right for Mr W by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr W made, whether to Zopa directly or any third-party, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £10,000.00 originally lent. If once all 
adjustments have been made this shows that Mr W has made overpayments, these 
overpayments should also be refunded to Mr W together with interest at 8% simple a 
year from the date they were made by Mr W to the date of settlement
if once all adjustments have been made this shows that Mr W still has an outstanding 
amount to repay, Zopa should contact Mr W to arrange a suitable repayment plan.  
Mr W is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Zopa to reach a 
suitable agreement for this.
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made then Zopa 
should remove any adverse information it recorded on Mr Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Zopa Bank Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman