DRN-4154802
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with AWP P&C SAs (AWP) decision to decline a claim made under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
In March 2022, Miss J found a water leak which was caused damage to her boiler and 
meant she was without heating and hot water. Miss J intended to make a claim through her 
home emergency policy, which was provided by a high street bank. 
She said she made a phone call, using the number on the covering letter of her home 
emergency policy document. Miss J says what followed was a series of conversations 
speaking to different people at what she believed was the provider of her home emergency 
policy. Eventually, Miss J was given a claim form for another insurer, who Ill refer to as X, 
and X arranged for an engineer to come out. However, that engineer appointment was 
cancelled when X identified Miss J didnt hold the specific account required for X to be the 
home emergency provider. 
Miss J arranged her own engineer (on advice of X) who said boiler was beyond repair. She 
sought a second opinion, and another engineer then fixed the leak at a cost of £850. In 
June, Miss J managed to contact AWP directly to log the claim and tried to claim back her 
costs. AWP declined her claim, saying Miss J hadnt adhered to the policy terms by notifying 
it that she needed to claim within 48 hours. Unhappy with the handling of the situation, Miss 
J complained, and AWP responded in November. It stood by the decision to decline the 
claim, saying it had acted in line with the policy terms, these being that it wouldnt cover any 
costs where approval wasnt sought in advance.  
Unhappy with AWPs response, Miss J asked us to look into what happened. Our 
investigator said AWPs position hadnt been prejudiced by the delay in reporting the claim 
and that she could understand, in the circumstances, how the confusion about who to call 
arose. Our investigator said AWP should reconsider Miss Js claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and should pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced as a result of the delay in responding to her complaint about the claim outcome. 
As AWP didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for the same reasons. 
As our investigator said, insurers are required to consider claims fairly and not unreasonably 
reject a claim. Ive considered if AWP has acted fairly in relation to Miss Js claim. 
Its not in dispute Miss J didnt contact AWP in the first instance to log her claim. I accept the 
circumstances when she discovered the leak led to some confusion. Miss J says she relied 
on the policy documents she had to hand in the moment, which was the covering letter from 
when she took the policy out in June 2021. She says the link to the policy documents online 
didnt work. Ive reviewed the covering letter which provides a telephone number which AWP 
says would have put Miss J through to an administrative department. It was following a 
number of transfers to various different departments that Miss J then says the claim was set 
up for her with the incorrect insurer. 
Im mindful Miss J outlined some challenging circumstances. As well as having no heating or 
hot water, she also had an infant and says she felt significant pressure to get the situation 
resolved. Against this background, I can see why, after the confusion and circumstances 
where a claim had been started with an engineer instructed and then cancelled, Miss J made 
her own arrangements for a repair to be carried out. 
Its clear there was confusion here, and some of this might have been contributed to by X 
who, according to Miss J, didnt immediately identify she wasnt a policyholder. But this 
confusion doesnt remove AWPs liability. Fundamentally, while I accept Miss J did not 
contact AWP within 48 hours of the emergency being identified as the policy terms required, 
Im satisfied her intention was to do so, and Miss J genuinely believed that she had done so. 
The exclusion AWP is relying on is:
The following exclusions apply to the whole of your policy: 
2 Costs we have not authorised. 
Always phone us first.
Im not persuaded AWP has acted fairly in declining the claim. AWP hasnt demonstrated it 
has been prejudiced by Miss J not contacting it directly within the first 48 hours and 
subsequently arranging the repair. AWP hasnt considered any of the circumstances of the 
claim and hasnt shown whether it would or wouldnt have sent an engineer out to inspect 
the boiler. It has disregarded the confusion Miss J set out whilst experiencing a worrying and 
stressful situation. 
In the circumstances of this specific case, I require AWP to consider Miss Js claim. Miss J 
should provide AWP with all paperwork she has in relation to the repair, and this should be 
considered by AWP. If, after considering the paperwork provided by Miss J, AWP agrees it 
would have covered the claim, it should settle this in line with the remaining policy terms. 
In addition to this, AWP should pay Miss J £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced as a result of its delay in letting Miss J know it wouldnt consider her claim. It 
seems AWP decided this several weeks before communicating this to her. Given Miss J had 
already outlined how worrying and stressful she found the entire situation, and the impact 
paying for the repair had on her, I think AWP could have taken action that would have 
reduced the impact on her. It should pay compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require AWP P&C SA to:
Consider Miss Js claim subject to the remaining policy terms, when it is provided 
with the relevant paperwork
Pay Miss J £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
delay in telling her about the outcome of her complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman