DRN-2870956
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.   
What happened
Mrs D was given a guarantor loan of £5,000 by TFS in September 2013. The loan was due 
to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of around £243. The total amount due be repaid over 
the four-year loan term, including interest, was just over £11,710. 
TFS thought that too much time had passed for the complaint about the loan to be 
considered. But following an ombudsmans decision that this Service could look into the 
matter, an adjudicator looked into the complaint. 
The adjudicator didnt initially think that TFS had been wrong to lend to Mrs D, but then re-
considered the evidence and thought that TFS shouldnt have provided the loan. So he 
asked the lender to put things right. TFS didnt agree with adjudicators revised assessment 
so the complaint has passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. And Ive 
considered this approach when deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs D irresponsibly. 
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs D 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs D in some other way?
TFS was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar assessment 
on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs D. In other words, 
it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it 
had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs D. The existence of a guarantee and 
the potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor instead of Mrs D for the loan payments doesnt 
alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation. 
TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs D would 
be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that TFS had to do, but it 
could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of the loan 
term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
TFS was required to establish whether Mrs D could sustainably repay her loan. TFS asked 
Mrs D for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out some credit 
checks. TFS says it thinks the loan was affordable for Mrs D. Ive seen a summary of the 
information gathered by TFS at the time, including Mrs Ds credit report. 
The credit report acquired by TFS at the time shows that Mrs Ds total outstanding credit was 
around £4,813. She had taken out another loan around six months earlier and she was near 
to her credit limit on at least two credit cards. Mrs D appears to have had some difficulty 
repaying credit in the past and there were at least 3 defaults.  But I think it would have been 
reasonable for TFS to consider these defaults to be historic as they took place some years 
before Mrs D applied for her loan. Given the type of lending involved, I think TFS would 
reasonably have expected to see some adverse information in a consumers credit history.
I appreciate that TFS had carried out some checks. But Mrs D was applying to TFS for a 
costly loan, and she would have to maintain her repayments every month for an extended 
period. Given this, I would have expected TFS to want to take further steps to gain a 
thorough understanding of Mrs Ds true financial position - to ensure that she could 
sustainably repay her loan over the whole loan term. 
Mrs D has provided bank statements from around the time she applied for this loan. I have 
reviewed these carefully. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. 
But I think if TFS had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely 
it would have discovered more about Mrs Ds financial position.
In particular, I think its likely that TFS would have realised that Mrs D was having difficulty 
managing her finances. Mrs Ds bank statements show evidence of the beginnings of financial distress  including returned requests for payment, payday lending, arranged and 
unarranged overdraft fees and other charges. Mrs D was regularly overdrawn and exceeding 
her overdraft limit and she had been making payments to other individuals in the months 
leading up to her loan from TFS. Mrs D says this is because she was in debt to family and 
friends as a result of borrowing money. TFS says payments allocated to family debt was not 
a contractual agreement; there would have been no minimum payment and in the event of 
an emergency, the family member would not have taken any action to recover the debt. I 
appreciate why TFS has taken this view. But I think it would have been reasonable to query 
why payments were being made to individuals and even if this debt was not governed by 
formal contractual agreements, its likely that some form of repayments would be required 
during the four year term of Mrs Ds loan with TFS. Overall, I think it would have been 
reasonable for TFS to have realised that Mrs Ds financial position was not as 
straightforward as its initial checks might have suggested.  
This was an expensive loan, repayable over a long period and the rules and guidance 
suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit - relative to the customers financial situation.
The lender might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the loan had a 
guarantor who was equally liable with Mrs D. This might have given TFS more confidence 
that the loan repayments would be made. But I dont think that the existence of the 
guarantor, on its own, meant that Mrs D herself would be able to sustainably make the 
repayments - given the amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the extended length 
of the loan term.
TFS says it thinks the loan was affordable for Mrs D, based on its analysis of her income and 
expenditure. But as Ive already explained, TFS was required to establish whether Mrs D 
could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
This is a marginal decision, but on balance, I think TFS ought reasonably to have realised 
that its loan would most likely tip Mrs D over into an unsustainable financial position and that 
she would most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay her loan from TFS. I think TFS 
ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mrs D would be able to 
sustainably repay her loan over the full loan term, and so it should reasonably have 
concluded that it was not appropriate to provide the loan to her. 
I cant fairly say that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs D in some other way. 
But I dont think it should have provided the loan to her. So TFS should put things right.
  
Putting things rightI think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs D to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to her.  
TFS should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs D made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the 
payments Mrs D made total more than the amount she was originally lent then any 
surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her. 
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Mrs D to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then TFS should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs D, bearing in mind its obligation to 
treat her positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
d) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ds credit file as a result of this 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mrs 
D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and direct TFS Loans 
Limited to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman