DRN-1708547
The complaint
Mr R complains that One Insurance Limited avoided his motor insurance policy, treated it 
like it never existed and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr R took out a motor insurance policy with One Insurance through a price comparison site 
in 2016 and renewed this policy yearly. The last renewal took place in June 2019. In 
February 2020, Mr R was involved in an accident and he reported this to One Insurance to 
try and make a claim.
One Insurance said hed answered the question it asked about who the registered owner of 
his vehicle was incorrectly during the application. And it considered this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled One Insurance to avoid his policy, 
decline his claim because of this and keep the premiums hed already paid.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be partially upheld. 
They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But they didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. They believed it was careless. They thought One Insurance was 
entitled to avoid Mr Rs policy and decline his claim but that it should return the premiums 
hed paid since the renewal in June 2019.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr R 
says he wanted One Insurance to remove the avoidance from his insurance history. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless, or careless.
One Insurance thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said he was the registered owner of the vehicle when it was registered in the name 
of his company. And that he was reminded of the importance of disclosing the correct 
information at the point of each renewal.  Mr R says he answered this way because he 
thought the registered and legal owner had to be a person rather than entity.
Ive looked at the question Mr R was asked  which was are you the registered keeper and 
legal owner?  and he had the option to select yes or no. Im satisfied the question is 
clear and unambiguous. At each renewal One Insurance sent Mr R an invite and asked him 
to check the details were correct. One Insurance also highlighted the importance of letting it 
know if anything was correct. So, I dont agree Mr R took reasonable care in making sure he 
wasnt making a misrepresentation. I say this because  while I understand why Mr R 
assumed he was the owner  I think Mr R should have taken steps to make sure he knew 
whether it was him or his company who was registered as the legal owner rather than just 
assuming. Especially given the consequences of giving the wrong answer. 
One Insurance has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria which shows if Mr R had not 
made the misrepresentation it would never have offered him the cover for the 2019 renewal.
This means Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
One Insurance has said Mr Rs misrepresentation was reckless because he was asked a 
clear question when he first took out his policy. I dont agree that Mr Rs misrepresentation 
was reckless because there is nothing in what he has told us  or One Insurance  that 
leads me to think he didnt care whether he was giving the correct information. And nothing 
One Insurance has given us shows that Mr R knew he was giving the wrong information. I 
think this was more a case of Mr R being careless in his misrepresentation. 
As Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions One Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA sets out the remedies that are available to an insurer when a careless 
misrepresentation has been made. One Insurance has shown us that had Mr R said the 
registered owner of the vehicle was his company, it would not have offered him the cover. 
So, under CIDRA, One Insurance is entitled to avoid the policy and not deal with Mr Rs 
claim. But it must return any premiums Mr R has paid since the renewal in June 2019 as Im 
satisfied the misrepresentation was careless. 
Ive noted Mr Rs point about having the void marker removed from his insurance record. 
Whilst I think its likely he has made a genuine mistake; Mr R had a duty of care to make 
sure the information he was providing to One Insurance was correct. So, whilst I dont agree 
his actions were reckless or deliberate, he still misrepresented the information. As such, I 
wont be directing One Insurance to remove any record of this policy being avoided.  
Considering all of this, I think the fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint is that       
One Insurance avoids Mr Rs policy in accordance with CIDRA. This means  in effect     
Mr Rs policy never existed. One Insurance does not have to deal with any claims Mr R 
makes against it. But it does have to refund his premiums if it has not done so already. 
I appreciate this outcome is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr R, but I hope my 
explanation helps him to understand the outcome I have reached. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Rs complaint. One 
Insurance Limited can avoid Mr Rs policy but it must refund the premiums he has paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman