DRN-2634278
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL). He says that online 
transactions for his SIPP and ISA werent processed at the correct prices and he lost out as 
a result. 
What happened
Mr B says that he tried to make two online transactions. He was looking to buy units in an 
index fund. Hed checked information about the timing of the orders and understood that the 
valuation cut-off point was 15.00. He completed his request by 13.50 with the understanding 
that IISLs own cut-off point was one hour before the valuation.
Mr B says he was then surprised to discover that the transactions were processed based on 
the valuations for the following business day. He says he lost out as a result by around 
£1,000.
IISL responded and said that the valuation cut off point was at 15.00 daily, but their cut off 
point for trading is 13.00.
Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. The complaint was considered 
by an investigator who said that it should be upheld. 
The investigator said that there was acceptance within IISLs final response that the preview 
stage on IISLs website does not make the cut off explicitly clear. In order to make the trade, 
Mr B progressed through stages on the platform website and this involved his agreeing that 
he had considered the information in the Key Information Investor Document and that hed 
had enough time to read and understand the document and wanted to progress the 
transaction immediately. The investigator noted that this documentation stated the valuation 
cut off for this fund as 15.00. But there was no trading cut off.
The investigator noted that IISL said that the simplified prospectus didnt give any trading cut 
off point for Mr B to adhere to. IISL said that its trading cut off point for the relevant fund is
13.00 and so Mr B submitted his trade too late. 
The investigator considered the screenshots which Mr B provided as evidence of what hes 
likely to have seen whilst making the trade. This confirmed a daily valuation point, and that 
trades must be made one hour before that.
So, whilst IISL could demonstrate that individual fund cut off times varied depending on their 
individual fund managers and that a customer may need to call or email to obtain the specific 
time, the investigator thought it was fair to consider what Mr B is likely to have seen when 
conducting the trade. It was reasonable that he felt he had completed his transactions in line 
with IISLs expectations. 
The investigator set out how redress should be calculated and awarded Mr N £100 for any 
trouble and upset caused.
IISL didnt agree. It accepted that in an ideal world it would like to promote the specific cut off 
times for each funds valuation point, it didnt, and customers are instructed to contact it to 
confirm the cut off time for the specific fund they would like to trade.
The investigator didnt change his view and so the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I uphold this complaint. IISL is perfectly entitled to decide on 
what terms it conducts its business subject to its regulatory and legal obligations. But I dont 
think thats the issue here. Mr B says that he had checked the necessary timings in advance 
of making these orders. The screenshots hes provided clearly show that a trade needed to 
be made at least one hour before the valuation point of this fund to secure that days price. 
Theres no dispute that the valuation was at 15.00. 
IISL would be entitled to say that a trade needed to be placed sooner than that to meet its 
requirements. But if that is the case, then I think this information needs to be clear and 
consistent. I think there was some ambiguity and lack of clarity here. Im satisfied that Mr B 
was misled by the information in the screenshot into understanding that he could secure that 
days price for that fund if he placed his order at least one hour before, by 14.00, which he 
did.
Im satisfied that if Mr B had been fully informed, he would have placed his order sooner and 
secured that days price. Therefore, Im satisfied that he has lost out.
Im satisfied that these events will have caused Mr B a degree of trouble and upset. He 
would no doubt have been disappointed to discover that he had missed out when the unit 
price moved against him between his making transaction and the date the price was 
secured.
  
Putting things right
To put things right, IISL must calculate the position Mr B would now be in had the 
transactions on his SIPP and his ISA been completed on 28 February 2020 and not at the 
later valuation. It must make a payment to his SIPP and ISA sufficient to cover the cost/value 
of any additional units he would have purchased.
IISL must also pay Mr B the sum of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Interactive Investor Services Limited must calculate and pay redress 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman