DRN-2671721
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Starling Bank Limited recorded a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2019, Mr W received a number of payments into his Starling account from three different 
senders at three different banks. He sent this money onto a prepaid currency card. Each of 
the sending banks then reported the payments as fraudulent.
Mr W told Starling that the payments were from an old friend who hed once lent money to 
and had happened to run into again. Hes said that all the accounts involved actually 
belonged to that one person. Hes said the friend was helping him pay off a loan, but then 
hed decided to use the money to book a holiday, but then he didnt actually book the 
holiday. He said hed then loaded the money onto the currency card as spending money for 
the holiday he hadnt booked, but also intended to use it to buy gifts for his family. But he 
then said he gave the currency card away instead. Mr W explained he had no evidence he 
knew this person, or that hed ever lent him money. He said he couldnt show theyd ever 
spoken as hed only talked to him using someone elses phone, and in any case theyd both 
happened to change phones since and so were unable to contact each other.
Starling gave Mr W notice that they were closing his account, and they registered a fraud 
marker with CIFAS. He complained.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that Mr W had received multiple fraudulent payments and then spent the money. They 
felt it was fair that Starling had closed the account and registered the marker.
Mr W didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr W and Starling a provisional decision on 9 February 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Starling were not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt 
that Mr W had done something wrong. Instead, they had to have reasonable grounds to 
believe hed misused his facility, beyond a suspicion or concern, with appropriate evidence 
to support this. Having carefully considered everything that both sides have provided, 
I currently think that Starling did have sufficient grounds to register the marker. Ill explain.
The payments in dispute were received into Mr Ws account and then forwarded on to a 
prepaid currency card. From what I can see, this was authenticated with Mr Ws phone, 
using his fingerprint and passcode. No other devices were registered to the account and no 
one else appears to have had access other than Mr W. And Mr W has admitted to receiving 
and forwarding on the payments. So Im satisfied this was all done with his knowledge and 
consent.
Three different banks have confirmed that the funds Mr W received and spent were 
fraudulent. I can see that something similar has happened on one of Mr Ws other accounts 
as well.
There does not appear to be any evidence which substantiates Mr Ws versions of events. 
He has not been able to provide any evidence that he knew the senders, or that he lent them 
money, or that he was entitled to receive these funds. He couldnt provide anything to 
indicate that theyd ever communicated before, such as texts, calls, emails, or social media 
history, despite saying they were old friends, colleagues and neighbours. Hes been unable 
to evidence the things he says he spent the money on and declined to provide statements 
for the currency card when asked.
Indeed, what Mr W has told us often contradicts the evidence at hand. For example, he says 
that all these senders were the same person, but they were different people from different 
banks in different places. He says one of the accounts is his friends limited company, but 
thats not the case. He even describes senders as the wrong gender. This certainly does not 
support his assertions that he knew these people. 
Each of the senders had very similar stories about how theyd been defrauded into sending 
Mr W money. They separately sent him money using the same reference, which fits with 
their descriptions of the fraud. These funds were confirmed as fraudulent by three different 
banks. There isnt a likely way that someone couldve done this without Mr Ws permission, 
and in any case he has admitted to receiving and spending this money. I cant see any 
significant evidence which substantiates his versions of events, and what hes told us 
doesnt fit with what happened. 
So based on what Ive seen so far, I think Starling acted fairly in registering the marker. This 
is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr W to receive. 
But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion.
It follows that I also currently think it was reasonable that Starling closed Mr Ws account. 
I can see that they did this within the terms and conditions of his account.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
9 March 2021. Starling had nothing further to add. Mr W made some further comments, 
which Ill talk through below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr W explained that he didnt know the funds were fraudulent, and this was all his old 
friends fault. But Im afraid theres no evidence to substantiate that this friend ever existed, 
or that Mr W ever knew him, or that the friend was in any way involved with what happened 
here. Whereas, as I explained in the provisional decision, there is substantial evidence that 
Mr W took in and spent fraudulent funds. It also doesnt seem at all plausible or likely that 
this old friend would commit fraud just to give someone else all the profits, and without that 
other person knowing what was going on.
I do understand Mr Ws point that he originally only knew this friend some years ago. But 
given their apparently comprehensive relationship  for example being not just friends but 
colleagues and neighbours too; and given that they were supposedly in contact in December 
2019 and sorting out money matters together at the time, I would have expected Mr W to be 
able to provide substantial evidence that he actually knew this person.
Mr W has now provided a phone number, saying we can use it to contact the old friend. Its 
unclear where this number came from as his previous testimony was that the friend changed 
numbers and was uncontactable. In any case, this latest phone number does not appear to 
be related to this case.
Mr W explained hed been able to get another CIFAS marker removed. That may be the 
case, but Im satisfied that this marker was added with sufficient grounds.
Mr W said he was more than willing to state his case in court. This service isnt a court, but if 
he rejects my final decision then his legal rights wont be affected  so Mr W will still be able 
to take Starling to court if he wishes. Though it would be advisable for him to seek qualified 
legal advice about that route beforehand.
Mr W expressed his concerns with the way the system worked in general. We only look at 
individual complaints here at the Financial Ombudsman Service, so Im not best placed to 
address his more general comments. The regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, or 
FCA for short  looks at the way things work more widely. And if Mr W wants, he can get in 
contact with them to give his comments  though I should explain that they wont normally 
comment on individual cases.
Lastly, Mr W asked that we take greater account of his side of the story. I hope I can 
reassure him that I have looked carefully at everything hes said, and Ive thought carefully 
about all his points. But the fact remains that his versions of events are not supported by any 
substantive evidence, are self-contradicting at points, and are contradicted by the substantial 
evidence we do have. And ultimately, Im satisfied that the senders were defrauded into 
sending Mr W money, and that he received and spent these fraudulent funds. 
So having reconsidered the case, I conclude that Starling acted fairly and reasonably in 
registering this marker and closing the account.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ws 
complaint in this particular case.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman