DRN-3210323
The complaint
Miss M complains about the suitability of the advice she received from Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited trading as Pearl (Phoenix), to take out a personal pension plan (PPP) 
instead of joining her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). She says these actions led to 
her losing a certain status within her OPS. She also says that in 1995 Phoenix didnt advise 
her to rejoin her OPS and transfer the PPP benefits into the scheme. She wants an apology 
and to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
What happened
Miss M took out a PPP with Phoenix in October 1988 to accept contracted out State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme contributions as well as personal contributions. In 
November 1991 she took out another PPP to make further personal contributions.
 
Miss M says that in 1995 she met with a Phoenix adviser, which appeared to be as part of 
the industry-wide pensions review. Miss M says that Phoenix advised her not to transfer the 
PPP benefits into her OPS. Phoenix says that following the interview, during which Miss M 
confirmed she didnt want to join her OPS, it sent her a follow up letter which said that she 
should join the OPS without further delay. The following year Miss M decided to join the 
NHS pension scheme and to transfer the PPP benefits  after a discussion with a colleague. 
The transfer completed in November 1997.
In 2011 Miss M complained about the previous advice shed been given. She said Phoenix 
should have advised her to join her OPS rather than take out the PPPs and she thought she 
should have had her missing service from the OPS reinstated in 1997 instead of Phoenix 
simply transferring the value of her PPPs to the OPS. She had also become aware that she 
hadnt secured Mental Health Officer (MHO) status when she joined the scheme in 1997  
which was an advantageous status that credited her with double service with the scheme 
after shed accrued 20 years service. 
Phoenix said it had written to Miss M in January 1999, as part of phase two of the pensions 
review, to ask if she wanted her PPPs to be included. But as it didnt receive a response it 
now believed her complaint had been brought too late and couldnt be considered any 
further. 
In late 2018 Miss M complained again. She made the following points in relation to her 
dealings with Phoenix around the PPPs and her OPS.
Shed been incorrectly advised to take out PPPs in 1988 and 1991 instead of joining 
her OPS.
Phoenix administered the application of the PPPs poorly.
The service she lost from not joining the OPS should have been reinstated, instead 
of just transferring the Phoenix PPPs transfer value into the OPS.
She had questioned the point above in 2011 but was unable to follow it up as the 
original PPP provider became part of Phoenix.
In 1996 she was advised by Phoenix not to transfer her PPPs into the OPS.
Phoenixs handling of her complaint had been chaotic.
Phoenix reiterated its previous decision that Miss Ms complaint had been made out of time. 
Although it also confirmed there was no evidence that it had advised her not to transfer her 
PPP benefits in 1996. But it did accept that it hadnt answered Miss Ms original complaint 
point properly and offered £150 for the distress and inconvenience it may have caused.
Miss M wasnt happy with this outcome and so brought her complaint to us. In the first 
instance we issued a decision on the matter of what could be considered. An ombudsman 
decided that we couldnt look at the question of why the original advice to take out the PPPs 
wasnt reviewed within the industry wide pensions review, and that we couldnt look at the 
question of why Miss Ms MHO status had been lost and not reinstated in 1997. But he said 
we could look at the suitability of the advice Miss M says she was given not to transfer her 
PPP benefits back to the OPS  as well as the level of service shed received more recently.
 
So the investigator looked into those matters and said that he didnt think a complaint about 
those points should be upheld. He said hed seen evidence that showed Phoenix wrote to 
Miss M in 1995 to recommend that she joined the OPS without delay. This followed a 
meeting in which her adviser said Miss M stated that she didnt want to join the OPS as she 
was unsure of her job situation.
He said hed taken into account Miss Ms testimony that she was told by an adviser from 
Phoenix not to transfer  and while he didnt dispute her recollection of events, hed given 
more weight to Phoenixs contemporaneous evidence. 
He also acknowledged that Phoenix hadnt understood Miss Ms queries and hadnt provided 
a good level of service. But he thought its offer of £150 was fair in the circumstances.
 
Miss M didnt agree. She made the following points in response:
She said she hadnt told the adviser she didnt want to join the OPS in 1995, and she 
was in continuous employment from 1990 to 2011  which didnt suggest any job 
insecurity at the time of the meeting. 
She thought the statement Phoenix made was (mistakenly) about another plan 
holder or simply a false statement and shouldnt be used in support of its position. 
She had asked Phoenix to provide evidence of the letters it sent in 1995 but it said it 
no longer held them. So it was unclear how evidence, in the form of a screenshot, 
was now available. She thought this position was inconsistent and suggested the 
evidence could be questioned and might not be valid. 
She said if shed received the letters she would have responded to them, or at least 
sought further advice, as the implication was that she would be better off financially 
as a result of taking the advice.
Her adviser didnt recommend that she would be better off joining the OPS  and she 
had signed forms he presented to her which it was said would reinstate her MHO 
status. 
She said that Phoenix had ignored her initial complaint for which it offered her £150  
but then said it would conduct a full review of the complaint. She disputed that shed 
been provided with a final response and thought that Phoenix didnt fully investigate 
or provide any response to her complaint. She thought that was unacceptable.
She thought we hadnt understood the concept of her MHO status or the financial 
implication of it not being reinstated.
The investigator said that:
He was aware of the MHO status. He had simply asked for information to quantify the 
financial loss Miss M had spoken about.He was unaware that the meeting with Phoenix in 1995 wasnt formal. But that 
information didnt change his thoughts on the complaint. 
It would have been ideal if Phoenix had provided the original letters it said it sent 
Miss M in 1995. But he was satisfied that the copies of the template letters were sent 
and the screenshots, which were from Phoenixs old systems, confirmed the dates 
they were sent. 
He thought he would require stronger evidence from Miss M to uphold her complaint 
that Phoenix didnt advise her to transfer her PPP to the OPS and that it would be 
able to reinstate her MHO status.  
He thought the £150 offer for not answering Miss Ms complaint was fair and in line 
with what he would have recommended. However, he explained that any complaint 
purely about the subsequent handling of the complaint couldnt be considered as it 
wasnt a regulated activity. 
Miss M said that Phoenix hadnt provided any real evidence of what was sent to her and she 
thought the onus was on it to provide that evidence  not her. She said she signed the 
relevant forms to transfer her pension to the OPS and reinstate her MHO. She reiterated her 
position with regards to the pension review and the loss of her MHO status as a result of the 
forms she completed not being processed. 
The investigator confirmed that while he hadnt seen a copy of the original letter, Phoenix 
had provided a template of the appropriate letter along with a screenshot confirming it was 
sent. He said that hed given more weight to that evidence than Miss Ms testimony of what 
the adviser told her at the time. He also confirmed that he couldnt comment on the matters 
relating to the pension review and MHO status as wed already decided they couldnt be 
considered.
But as things remained unresolved the complaint was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I concluded that there was no new evidence to cause me to 
reconsider our original decision that the matters of advice to set up the PPP and the later 
reinstatement of the OPS benefits werent ones we could consider. I thought that, on 
balance, it was more likely than not that Phoenix had sent Miss M pension review letters 
offering her the opportunity to have the initial advice reviewed. 
I also thought that in 2011 Phoenix provided Miss M with referral rights to this service within 
its response to her complaint about the reinstatement of the OPS benefits  which showed 
that she could have referred the matter to us at that time if she was unhappy with Phoenixs 
response. 
I then looked at the matters we could consider and began with the question of the advice 
Miss M said she was given not to transfer to the OPS in 1995. I said this part of her 
complaint shouldnt be upheld because there was no corroborative evidence to show that 
Phoenix had told Miss M not to transfer her PPP benefits to the OPS, and the evidence I had 
seen suggested the opposite position had been taken, in that Phoenix had recommended 
that Miss M joined her employers pension scheme without delay. 
I also looked at the service Phoenix had provided in respect of Miss Ms assertion that it had 
been poor, and it hadnt provided an answer to her questions. But I thought Phoenixs offer 
of £150 for the trouble and upset caused by not answering the question she posed was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  and I said it should pay the £150 as resolution to the 
complaint.Responses to the provisional decision
Miss M accepted the overall outcome because she understood her complaint to be too late, 
as she said shed been unable to challenge Phoenix in 2011 because of the way it treated 
her. But she was frustrated that wed given more weight to what Phoenix had told us about 
the events rather than the genuine conversations that had occurred. She made the 
following points in response:
She didnt accept what wed said about her job insecurity at the time of the advice. 
She thought it should have been clear that if her job was insecure, she shouldnt 
have been advised to enter into any pension arrangement. 
She was frustrated that wed given more weight to Phoenixs evidence because the 
conversation with the adviser about taking out a second pension took place in her 
own home, so there wasnt any evidence that she could provide to substantiate what 
was said. 
Phoenix had been unable to provide any documentation to confirm what happened 
until it provided us with a template letter it said it would have sent to her. She 
maintained she hadnt received that letter but felt wed chosen to believe Phoenix 
regardless.
However, she did accept that her complaint had, largely, been made out of time. 
She said this was because she was unable to challenge Phoenix in 2011  for 
various reasons  but realised this meant shed left things too late.
She was concerned that, having previously declined Phoenixs offer of £150, it 
wouldnt now pay her. She wanted to know how to go about claiming the 
compensation. 
Phoenix had nothing further to add and confirmed it hadnt yet paid Miss M the 
compensation. It said it would do so at our request  either before or as a result of the final 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having reviewed both parties further comments I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings and I think Phoenix should pay Miss M £150. 
The out of time parts of the complaint
One of our ombudsmen previously decided that the advice to set up a PPP in 1991, and the 
issue with not reinstating Miss Ms OPS benefits, were matters that couldnt be considered 
because theyd been made outside of the time limits allowed. 
Miss M now accepts that this part of her complaint was made too late, as she says she was 
unable to challenge Phoenixs response in 2011 but understands that referral rights to this 
service were given within that response, which she should have taken up within the time 
allowed. 
Miss M says she is disappointed that we chose to give more weight to Phoenixs evidence 
about the advice to set up a PPP in 1991 instead of her written evidence about the 
conversations she said did take place. 
But I think that, on balance, Phoenix did send the necessary pension review letters to the correct address for Miss M at the time, and this ought to have started a chain of events 
which would allowed Miss M to complain if shed been unhappy with the outcome of the 
review that was offered to her within the letters.
So, in the absence of any further points relating this matter, I dont think these parts of 
Miss Ms complaint can be considered.  
The advice not to transfer to the OPS
Miss M hasnt made any points in response to my provisional findings that theres no 
corroborative evidence to show that Phoenix told her not to transfer her PPP benefits to the 
OPS. Indeed, a copy of a generic letter which Phoenix would have sent to Miss M in 1995  
following a meeting with her adviser, said that it is our recommendation that you join your 
pension scheme without delay. If you do not make an application to join within four weeks of 
the date of this letter, we cannot accept responsibility should you suffer disadvantage in the 
future as a result of your actions.   
So it would seem that Phoenixs written communication to Miss M recommended that she 
did transfer to her OPS and not to do so could be a future disadvantage to her. Theres 
simply nothing to suggest Phoenix recommended that Miss M didnt join her OPS  although 
Im mindful that Miss M says shes unable to provide such evidence because these were 
verbal suggestions (not to transfer) made in her own home with nothing written down at the 
time.
And, while I dont take what Miss M says lightly and have no reason to dispute her 
recollection of events, theres not enough persuasive evidence to support a claim that 
Phoenix recommended that she didnt join the OPS in 1995. Ive also taken into account that 
this event took place over 25 years ago, so I dont think its without foundation to suggest 
that, due to the passage of time, it would be reasonable that there wouldnt be complete 
clarity about all the recollections of the event. 
I have also considered Miss Ms assertion that she was provided with a leaflet which warned 
of the danger of transferring. But I think the leaflet would have been a regulatory requirement 
of the time  designed to give consumers time to think and reflect before making an 
informed choice. If anything I think the fact that the adviser provided Miss M with the leaflet 
showed that he had adhered to the regulatory requirements at the time and wanted Miss M 
to be in possession of all the information she needed to make a decision. 
Phoenixs ongoing service and offer of compensation
Phoenix has previously accepted that it misunderstood Miss Ms initial complaint questions 
which led to her being frustrated and concerned about all the issues with her pension. It said 
it should have provided answers and failed to do so in a timely manner. Phoenix offered 
£150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience the matter would have caused 
Miss M and, having thought carefully about its offer, Im of the view that its within the range 
of compensation Id expect to see for such an error and I think its a fair and reasonable 
offer.  
Miss M is concerned that, having already declined this offer, Phoenix doesnt have to pay the 
money to her. 
But Miss M should be assured that my final decision, which if she accepts it is legally binding 
on both parties, is that Phoenix should pay her the compensation as a fair resolution to the 
complaint   My final decision
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited trading as Pearl has already made an offer to pay £150 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited trading as Pearl should pay £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman