DRN-3714181
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions Limited (Aviva) changed the terms of a life 
assurance policy he held. He feels he has been grossly wronged.
Both Mr and Mrs O brought the complaint but as it was Mr O who was the life assured, Ill be 
referring to him in my decision. 
What happened
Over the years Mr O has held term life assurance policies with Aviva, for nine-year terms 
which he would renew. In 2012 Mr O wanted to convert to a whole of life policy but later 
realised this hadnt happened. Mr O wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint.
Aviva responded to Mr O on 7 October 2021. It didnt uphold his complaint. It said;
Mr O held a convertible term policy (number ending 39E) which was used to create a 
new nine-year term assurance policy in October 2003  ending number 9EU  which 
included a conversion option that could be used only once.
Policy 9EU was converted to Mr Os later policy  ending number 7EE  the schedule 
for which stated the conversion option wasnt included.
It said each plan came with its own terms and conditions. Aviva had acted correctly 
as it was clearly stated the option wasnt included. So, it couldnt uphold Mr Os 
complaint.
Mr O remained dissatisfied and Aviva wrote to him again on 2 November. It said;
It had reviewed the alteration Mr O made to his policy and there was a request to 
convert the plan to a whole of life policy in 2012 but this wasnt taken up. 
When the option to convert was used, the terms of the new plan took affect and 
wouldnt follow those of the older policy. 
Mr O wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said;
The application Mr O completed in 2012 showed that he had chosen to extend the 
term rather than choose the whole of life conversion option. 
The later policy documents stated the new policy had a nine-year term and that it 
couldnt be renewed or converted to a whole of life policy.
He thought Avivas description of the conversion of the policy as a request not being 
taken up might have caused confusion. Aviva had mean to convey was that it had 
provided Mr O with the option to convert the policy in 2012 but this hadnt been 
chosen.
The original policy documents had explained that there were limitations on the policy. 
The option to renew with a convertible option would only be available if the policy 
would expire no later than Mr Os 75th birthday and if the conversion option expired 
no later than his 70th birthday. Because of this when the new policy wasnt converted 
in 2012, the new policy couldnt provide the option to convert. It also meant that the 
policy couldnt be renewed at the end of its term as a new term would expire after his 
75th birthday. The policy documents provided in September 2012 showed there was 
no option to convert and no option to renew the policy. 
Mr O didnt agree with the outcome. Aviva had admitted a request was made and he said he 
had handwritten this request for a conversion to a whole of life policy in 2012  he didnt wait 
until 2021 to make this request. He couldnt understand the investigators logic and 
requested the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked through the submissions provided by both parties. I can see that Aviva wrote to 
Mr O on 30 April 2012 further to a phone conversation to confirm Mr O had six months left to 
use the conversion on policy 9EU.
Aviva sent Mr O a copy of the term assurance policy details on 17 May 2012 for policy 9EU. 
It confirmed that Mr O was the life assured with a death benefit of £207,087. It started on 
31 October 2003 with a term of nine years. The options Mr O could exercise were a 
conversion option which At anytime in the policy term a new policy can be taken out. Refer 
to the policy schedule for those included.
Mr O was written to on 12 July 2012 confirming that his life cover would end on 31 October 
and that he had the option to convert to a new term assurance or whole of life plan. The 
option had to be used before the end of the term of the current plan. 
Ive reviewed the Application Form for Renewal or Conversion of Plan completed and 
signed by Mr O on 31 August 2012. Under section 3. Option being exercised I can see that 
Mr O has crossed the box for A) Renewal option for a sum assured of £207,087 for a nine-
year term. There were also the options B) Conversion option and C) Part conversion 
option. At that time Mr O was aged 61 years. 
Mr O converted to a new level term assurance policy (7EE) which was to end on 
1 November 2021. I can see that Aviva sent to Mr O the policy documents on 1 September 
2012. Mr O was advised to check the Policy carefully to ensure that it meets your 
requirements. This was a level term assurance policy rather than a whole of life policy. The 
term assurance plan schedule shows that neither the conversion option nor renewal option 
were included with the policy. So, I think the terms of the policy were made clear to Mr O in 
2012. 
Mr O told the investigator that he couldnt recall receiving any letter and that his 
understanding was that the policy was just to continue and that it could be converted to a 
whole of life policy any time during the life of the policy before he reached 70 years of age. 
He expected the terms and conditions of the policies to remain the same given their nature 
and time sensitive ramifications. He said Aviva unilaterally changed the terms in favour of 
itself and with total disregard of his welfare and consumer rights. But I dont agree with Mr Os point here and Im satisfied that Aviva acted as it should have 
done by sending the letter and terms of the new policy and which was sent to the correct 
address. I dont think it needed to do anything more as its records show that Mr O was sent 
the correct information. 
Referring to Mr Os age and the impact that would have had on the policy, in November 
2021 Mr O would have been aged 71 years of age. Ive looked at the conditions of the 
original policy under the special conditions section where it explained that there were 
limitations due to the life assureds age at the time of each option. The renewal option was 
only available for the policy if it expired no later than Mr Os 75th birthday. And the option to 
renew the policy with a convertible option was only available if the policy expired no later that 
Mr Os 75th birthday and  crucially in this case  if the conversion option expired no later 
than his 70th birthday. 
So as Mr O chose to renew for another nine years in 2012 rather than convert there was no 
subsequent option to convert and no option to renew the policy after that because of Mr Os 
age. 
Mr Os recollection is that he sent a handwritten request for conversion to a whole of life 
policy in 2012. He wasnt able to provide a copy of this, so the investigator asked Aviva to 
check its records for receipt. Aviva told us that after making a thorough search it couldnt find 
any record of that letter and asked if Mr O had any confirmation from Aviva that this 
alteration had happened but there was nothing on file. 
Mr Os recollection is that he requested conversion to a whole of life policy in 2012. But its 
quite clear from the conversion/renewal application that this wasnt the case. Mr O requested 
a renewal and as a result of his age upon the end of the nine-year term, there wasnt any 
further option to convert or renew the policy. 
I quite understand why Mr O feels aggrieved and frustrated by what has happened. But I 
dont have any evidence to suggest that Mr O did request conversion to a whole of life policy 
in 2012. He only requested for a renewal. And as a result of that request and Mr Os age 
nine years later he couldnt take the action that he wanted.
So, taking all of the above into account, I cant agree that Aviva has done anything wrong 
and I wont be asking it to take any action. No doubt Mr O will be disappointed with my 
decision, but I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached the conclusion 
that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman