DRN-3919389
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) wasnt fit for purpose. BMW wont allow him to reject 
it which is what he would like to do.
What happened
Mr R says he took out a HPA with BMW in May 2022. The agreement was for a high end  
four-year-old car with 49,000 miles on the clock. Mr R says he was in contact with the 
dealership from May 2022 about issues with the car and then complained to BMW in July 
2022.
Mr R said the initial issues related to the air conditioning not working, missing badges, brake 
pads and discs near to the minimum safety standards , a passenger door catching, the front 
screen wash not working and a door catching when the car was on an incline.
Whilst these issues were addressed, further problems were found with loose body trim, 
vertical play in the passenger side door and damage to the front boot seal. Although all 
these issues have been addressed Mr R would still like to reject the vehicle as he feels the 
quality isnt what would be expected of a high-end car.
BMW said that Mr R couldnt expect a used car to be in the same condition as a brand new 
one. Also, that as the car Mr R took out the agreement for wasnt a BMW car he couldnt 
expect it to be the same standard as a BMW one.
Our investigator issued her view in which she upheld Mr Rs complaint. She didnt feel the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. She recommended that BMW:-
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr R
Refund Mr Rs deposit
Refund Mr Rs payments from 16 June 2022 to 20 June 2022 and 10 August 2022 to 
2 September 2022 as Mr R reasonably stopped using the car during this time
Refund 60% of the rental payments Mr R made between 2 September 2022 to 27 
September 2022 when Mr R had use of a rental car that was of significantly inferior 
quality to the one he was paying for
Refund 20% of the payments Mr R made during May to August 2022 (excluding the 
June dates specified above) to reflect impaired use of the car
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded payments from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Pay Mr R £150 for the  trouble and upset caused
Remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file.
Mr R accepted this view, but BMW didnt. It said most of the issues that arose were minor , 
had been repaired and would have been noticeable when Mr R inspected the car.
Our investigator considered these comments but didnt change her view. She didnt agree all 
the issues would have been visible on an inspection or evidenced in a test drive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr R took out an agreement for a high-end car, with relatively low mileage and 
at a significant cost. So, he might reasonably have expected there not to be any significant 
issues with it for some time.
Its clear from the information I have seen that Mr R found multiple issues with his car within 
six months of getting it. We usually say if issues arise within six months its down to the 
business to see if any issues were present or developing at the point of sale. And if so, we 
usually say its reasonable to allow one attempt to repair. I appreciate Mr R has told us he 
never agreed to any repairs. From what I have seen Mr R made it clear from August 2022 
that he wanted to reject the car not have it repaired.
As I understand it the issues with the car have been resolved during two time periods in 
June 2022 and then in September 2022. The issue for me to decide is how reasonable was 
it for BMW to continue to address issues with the car particularly after Mr R made it clear he 
wanted to reject the car after the first lot of work was carried out  but before the second lot of 
work was carried out.
BMW has commented that most of the issues that arose were cosmetic and or minor issues 
which could be expected in a used car. Also, that Mr R had the chance to inspect the car so 
would have been aware of such issues.
I agree some issues might be deemed to be minor and cosmetic and might have been 
visible when Mr R inspected the car such as missing badges and the damaged boot seal. 
And some could be classified as wear and tear to be expected of any used car, for example, 
the  brake pads and discs near to minimum safety standard. Its also  not clear to me if the 
air conditioning issue was a result of a leak from a failed seal or from stone damage. If the 
latter that may have arisen from when Mr R first drove the car. 
However, one of the early issues Mr R raised was the passenger door catching on the front 
wing panel. I dont think its reasonable to have committed the amount of money Mr R did for 
a high-end car to then find the door needed tweaking within a short time of having it.
Although the issues Mr  R first raised were dealt with in June 2022 there were then a further 
raft of issues that Mr R raised with BMW which seem to have been resolved in September 
2022. Some of these, for example, the vertical play on the passenger side door, the driver 
side door catching on the front wing when parked on a slope combined with the earlier  issue 
of a passenger door catching on the front wing panel indicate to me some structural issues 
with the car. I dont think these can be classified as cosmetic or minor issues. 
I dont think the car was put back into the position Mr R might reasonably have expected it to 
be in after work was carried out in June 2022. Its also  clear from the email trail that I have seen that Mr R consistently asked to reject the 
car in August 2022  prior to further issues being resolved in September 2022 - but wasnt 
allowed to do so.
There have been numerous issues with the car some of which are structural and not what Mr 
R could have expected in a four-year-old  high-end car with  relatively low mileage. I dont 
think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I think Mr R had grounds to reject 
the car when the issues first arose and certainly should have been allowed to reject the car 
when he asked to do so prior to the second round of work being carried out.
I am mindful that other issues have now arisen. Mr R has told us the panel alignment as 
noted in a technical report in August 2022 is still an issue. And a recent coolant leak may be 
due to a failed water pump. I am not intending to go into detail or make findings on these 
issues as I feel there are sufficient grounds to say rejecting the car is reasonable prior to 
being made aware of these further issues. 
However, the most recent issue of the water pump failure has led to Mr R not being able to 
use the car from 5 February 2023  and he has evidenced this to us. So, I think its only fair 
he doesnt pay for the use of the car from this time.
I think the redress our investigator recommended  that is rejection of the car, return of the 
deposit,  refunds and part refunds of payments made to reflect no use or impaired use of the 
car and a distress and inconvenience payment as detailed below is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement BMW Financial Services (GB) should :-
End Mr Rs  agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr R
Refund Mr Rs deposit
Refund Mr Rs payments from 16 June 2022 to 20 June 2022 and 10 August 2022 to 
2 September 2022 as Mr R reasonably stopped using the car during this time
Refund 60% of the payments Mr R made between 2 September 2022 to 27 
September 2022 when Mr R had use of a rental car that was of significantly inferior 
quality to the one he was paying for
Refund 20% of the payments Mr R made during May to 9 August 2022 (excluding the 
June dates specified above) to reflect impaired use of the car.
Refund Mr Rs payments from 5 February 2023 to the date of settlement as Mr R has 
been unable to use his car during this time.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded payments from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Pay Mr R £150 for trouble and upset caused
Remove any adverse information relating to this agreement  from Mr Rs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 Bridget Makins
Ombudsman