DRN-3093887
The complaint
Mr D complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs decision to decline his home 
insurance claim for damage caused by an escape of water. 
What happened
Mr D took out a home insurance with RSA towards the end of October 2020 for a property 
he was purchasing. He moved into the property in the first week of November 2020. About 
10 days later he heard a loud noise beneath his kitchen floor tiles that sounded like running 
water. Mr D turned off the water at the mains and called a plumber. 
The plumber attended and carried out trace and access and found a saturated sub-floor 
caused by a pin-hole in a copper pipe located beneath the tiles, screed and floor insulation. 
The pipe exhibited evidence of oxidation. The plumber removed (and disposed of) a section 
of the pipe and installed a joint and no further leaks were experienced. 
A couple of days later Mr D made a claim to RSA for a repair of the concrete screed, trace 
and access costs, repair of the kitchen floor tiles and other subsequent damage. RSA 
appointed loss adjusters to validate the claim and they visited the site in early December. 
Following the loss adjusters visit, RSA decided to appoint its forensics experts and they 
attended in early January 2021. They confirmed to RSA that the sand and floor insulation in 
the sub-floor were saturated. They also said that in the area of the floor that had been 
excavated, there were three 15mm copper pipes present, the outer surfaces of all showed 
evidence of corrosion. The forensic experts said the leak had saturated the area surrounding 
the pipe creating an environment that promoted corrosion. 
In early February 2021 RSA repudiated the claim on the grounds that the corrosion was 
extensive and had been ongoing for some time and certainly before the policy incepted. RSA 
told Mr D that its forensics experts had said the pipe had corroded over time because of the 
presence of water. It said the pipe was situated below the floor tiling but above the floor slab 
in the extension part of the kitchen whichd been built in 2005/2006. RSA said that modern 
building regulations wouldve required a damp-proof membrane (DPM) to be installed below 
the slab so, it thought, the water that had caused the corrosion had come from the leak in 
the pipe and not from any other source. It said that the leak would most likely have pre-dated 
the corrosion on the pipe and given the extent of corrosion evident, it was fair to assume that 
the leak first occurred before the policy was taken out. 
Mr D was unhappy with RSAs decision to decline the claim so he complained. He said to 
RSA that he believed the leak had happened whilst on cover with RSA and that there was no 
evidence that the escape of water was pre-inception. 
RSA looked into Mr Ds complaint but maintained its decision that itd been correctly 
declined. RSA thought that there was no evidence of an insured peril operating or, if there 
was, there were two clear policy exclusions that could be successfully applied to defeat the 
claim in any event: one for corrosion and one for pre-inception damage. It said itd been in 
touch with Mr Ds local building control and was able to confirm that the installation of a DPM 
was included on the plans for the kitchen extension was built so it felt it was likely one had 
been installed. RSA said that meant the source of the water causing the corrosion was the 
leaking pipe which itd already explained had been going on pre-inception. RSA did however 
consider that it should consider Mr Ds trace and access costs under the policy terms. 
Mr D replied to RSA to say that he would try an get evidence to prove that the damage 
happened whilst on cover with RSA. RSA said that if he could do so it would reconsider the 
claim but unless that happened, the claim would remain declined. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to RSA, Mr D complained to this service. He said 
that RSA had assumed a DPM was in place so that the corrosion couldnt have been caused 
by ground water. Mr D said he had asked his own expert to attend and dig a trial hole to see 
if a DPM was present or not. Mr D said hed send us the report as soon as he had it. Our 
investigator said shed review it upon receipt but warned Mr D that if his expert discovered 
there was no DPM, then RSA would likely look to apply the policy exclusion for damage that 
was the result of poor workmanship. 
Shortly after, Mr D forwarded his report to our investigator. The report said there was no 
DPM above the sand. And Mr D sent a copy of a letter from building control confirming that 
the works were carried out in line with building regulations. Mr D said hed proved that the 
corrosion and damage to the copper pipe werent necessarily caused by a slow leak which 
began pre-inception and that the pipe burst after RSA started to provide cover. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and recommended it was upheld. She said 
RSA should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. She 
said she didnt think RSA had fairly applied the exclusions to defeat Mr Ds claim because 
there was no evidence to confirm when the escape of water had occurred. Our investigator 
also sent Mr Ds experts report to RSA to review. 
Mr D agreed with our investigators findings but RSA didnt. In response it said the debate 
centred around when the pipe started to leak. It said there was physical evidence to show 
the pipe was corroded and leaking and that it was speculative to suggest this was the result 
of a failed DPM. RSA said there was no evidence that ground water/moisture contributed to 
the pipes failure. It said that, on balance, the evidence was that the water beneath the floor 
escaped from the pipe over time. So it said this remained its technical position on the claim. 
RSA also referred to the comments of the plumber who attended to repair the pipe and said 
hed said that the leak was likely to have been ongoing for some time, probably before Mr D 
moved in. RSA said it was reasonable to assume that the plumbers view was based on the 
extent of the damage he revealed. RSA said its policy indemnified Mr D against damage but 
that pre-inception damage wasnt covered no matter what caused it  be that groundwater or 
a leaking pipe. RSA said a recent leak, discovered as a result of hearing a noise under the 
tiles would not have caused the damage complained about. So it remained of the view that 
the damage predominantly, if not exclusively, occurred pre-inception of the policy. 
As an alternative, RSA said the policy excluded damage that was the result of corrosion in 
any event (and the pipe leaked because it was corroded) and it said that any damage 
caused by groundwater was uninsured damage. RSA said that Mr D needed to show that 
the damage was proximately caused by a peril during the lifespan of the policy. It said that, 
whatever the source of the water, it must have been present to a significant extent before 
inception. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint again and didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
She said that the evidence indicated that a wet environment had been present for some time 
before inception and it was this environment that had corroded the pipe that led to the leak. 
She explained that there was a policy exclusion for damage caused by corrosion so any damage that related to the corroded pipe wasnt covered. Our investigator said that the lack 
of a DPM had no bearing on the outcome of the claim as either way, events leading up to the 
pipes failure wouldve occurred pre-inception resulting in the same outcome, namely that the 
claim was declined. 
Mr D replied to say he disagreed with our investigators findings. He said RSA should pay his 
claim because there was no way he couldve known that the damage had been happening 
gradually. 
Our investigator responded to Mr D to say that it was always difficult, where works had been 
undertaken before an insurer had had time to inspect the damage sustained, because the 
insurers position was compromised. 
Mr D asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment I know this decision will cause Mr D, I dont think his 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage thats 
caused by one of the insured perils listed in the policy terms  fire, theft, flood, escape of 
water  is covered. Providing the policyholder is able to show the damage has been caused 
by one of the perils listed in the policy then the insurer must pay the claim unless it is able to 
successfully apply one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. The burden of proving a policy 
exclusion can be successfully applied falls to the insurer.
I accept that Mr D finds himself in an unfortunate situation. He had only just moved into his 
new home when the damage occurred. And it was only a short time that RSA had been on 
cover. That being the case, RSA understandably wanted to be sure that the damage Mr D 
was claiming for had happened whilst itd been on risk. 
I can see that RSA carried out some extensive forensic investigations before deciding it 
would decline Mr Ds claim by relying on the policy exception for damage caused pre-
inception. I dont think it has done so unreasonably. 
Whilst theres no definitive evidence about when exactly the pipe burst (and it is unfortunate 
that the damaged piece of pipe had been disposed of before RSA had had a chance to 
inspect it), the evidence does confirm that the ground conditions beneath the tiles were moist 
and that the remaining copper pipes were corroded. RSA had only been on risk for three 
weeks when the damage manifested itself. Its not unreasonable to think that corrosion of the 
extent evident on the three remaining pipes wouldve taken significantly longer than 3 weeks 
to have developed. 
Consequently, I dont think that RSA unreasonably decided to rely on the policy exclusion for 
damage caused before the policys inception. The policy does provide cover for damage 
cause by one of the insured perils listed but excludes damage thats caused pre-inception no 
matter what caused it  be that groundwater or a leaking pipe. Its reasonable to think, given 
the extent of the damage claimed for, that it couldnt have been caused by a recent leak, 
discovered as a result of hearing a noise under the tiles. So I dont think RSA unreasonably 
concluded the damage occurred predominantly, if not exclusively, before it went on risk. And latterly, in response to Mr Ds own expert report, RSA has also pointed out that the 
policy excludes damage that was the result of corrosion in any event (RSA stated that the 
pipe leaked because it was corroded). I dont think, taking all the evidence and 
circumstances into account that that was unreasonable conclusion for RSA to have reached. 
And whilst the policy does indeed provide cover for damage caused by water escaping from 
washing machines, dishwashers and fixed water heating systems, theres no cover provided 
for any damage caused by groundwater. So I dont think that RSA concluded that, even if the 
corrosion was the result of groundwater coming into contact with the pipe owing to a lack of 
a DPM, then such damage was uninsured damage in any event.
So whilst its clear that there has been an escape of water from fixed water system, I dont 
think that Mr D has been able to show that it occurred whilst RSA was on cover. 
Consequently, I think that RSA has been able to rely on certain policy exclusions in order to 
defeat his claim. Taking all the circumstances into account, I dont think it did so unfairly. 
Mr D has said its not fair that his claim isnt covered because he couldnt have been aware 
that the damage was happening gradually. But RSA hasnt relied on the policy exclusion for 
gradual damage in order to decline his claim; it relied on the existing pre-inception damage 
exclusion, and latterly, the exclusion for damage caused by corrosion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman