DRN-3009181
The complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc declined her loan application.
What happened
Miss F complains that Santander refused her loan application and patronised her by asking 
her about her savings and investments. She said that she has an excellent credit score and 
has banked with Santander for nearly 20 years, so it has access to her bank account 
information and knows her history. Miss F says this issue has caused her stress and 
sleepless nights as she hasnt been given a clear explanation as to why her application was 
refused.
Santander says Miss F applied for a loan and the application was automatically declined. It 
said this meant she hadnt met its internal scoring system which is based on affordability and 
credit checks. When investigating this complaint Santander noted that Miss F had high 
outgoings each month compared to her income. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that it was a commercial decision for 
Santander as to who it provided loans to and said he hadnt seen anything to suggest Miss F 
had been treated unfairly. 
Miss F didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss F was upset that her loan application was declined. She has 
explained she has an excellent credit score and provided information to support this. 
However, as our investigator has explained having a high credit score doesnt necessarily 
mean that a loan will be provided as other factors will be taken into account in the lending 
decision.
As already explained it is not our role to say who Santander should lend to. This is a 
commercial decision. However, our role is to consider whether Miss F has been treated fairly 
in regard to her loan application.
Santander has said that the application was automatically declined based on its credit 
scoring. A banks lending criteria is commercially sensitive and while I do not have further 
details of what is included we would expect creditworthiness and affordability to be part of 
the checks and Santander has confirmed this to be the case. As Miss F was subject to 
Santanders usual application process and was automatically declined, I do not find I have 
anything to suggest that Miss F was treated unfairly.
Santander has provided information from Miss Fs loan application. This showed Miss F 
having a monthly disposable income of around £350. The monthly repayments for the loan 
she applied for were around £269 over 60 months. I cannot say if this was a reason for the 
loan being declined, but I note it could raise concerns that there would be little left over each 
month after the loan repayments.
I am sorry to hear of the upset this issue has caused Miss F and I appreciate her comments 
about only borrowing what she can afford to repay and how she felt by being asked about 
her savings and investments. However, in this case because I have nothing to say that 
Miss F has been treated unfairly through the application process I do not find I can uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman