DRN-4210054
The complaint
Mr G complains than Lloyds Bank Plc discriminated against his when they closed his 
account, without providing a reason. 
What happened
Mr G has appointed representatives for this complaint, but for ease of reading Ill refer solely 
to Mr G in this decision.
Mr G held bank accounts with Lloyds. In March 2020 Lloyds wrote to him to say they would 
be closing his account in 65 days. He appealed this decision in April 2020, and after 
consideration Lloyds confirmed the closure had been suspended. However, in August 2020 
they wrote to him again, saying that his accounts would be closed in 65 days. He raised a 
complaint with the bank, but this time they didnt change their minds.
The accounts were closed in October 2020 and a cheque issued for the balance.
Unhappy with this, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. He said he had previously 
supplied information on his accounts to Lloyds when asked, and his accounts hadnt been 
involved in any transactions that would cause suspicion. He believed Lloyds had 
discriminated against him, based on his race and/or religion or belief. Since the account 
closure he said hed been denied credit 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She asked Lloyds further information about why 
Mr Gs accounts were closed but didnt receive a satisfactory response. As such, she didnt 
think Lloyds had been able to demonstrate the decision to close Mr Gs accounts was fair. 
But she wasnt persuaded that Lloyds had made the decision to close based on of Mr Gs 
race or religion. She didnt see anything reported by Lloyds to the credit reference agencies 
would have prevented him obtaining credit. Overall, she thought Lloyds should pay Mr G 
£100 compensation to reflect the distress caused from having his account closed.
Lloyds accepted this as an outcome. Mr G however disagreed, saying it was reasonable to 
conclude the closure was because of his protected characteristics, and any amount of 
compensation should reflect the gravity of the matter. He also was concerned the closure 
had affected his ability to get credit.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. As part of my 
investigation, I requested further information from both Lloyds and Mr G. After reviewing the 
additional evidence I came to a different conclusion to the investigator. I issued my 
provisional decision which said:
My role is to review whether Lloyds treated Mr G fairly and its actions were reasonable. 
Mr Gs complaint involves an allegation of discrimination based on a protected characteristic 
(his race or religion). Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account when dealing 
with complaints of this nature when deciding whats fair and reasonable. But its not for me to 
make a decision that a business has breached the Equality Act 2010. Thats the role of the 
Courts. Where I decide a business hasnt acted reasonably, we ask the business to put 
things right for the consumer.
The terms of Mr Gs Lloyds account allow them to close his account for any reason, so long 
as they provide at least two months notice  which is in line with the regulations about 
payment accounts, and common industry practice. This is to give consumers the opportunity 
to set up accounts elsewhere. In this case I can see they gave Mr G 65 days notice, which 
is appropriate and in line with these terms. The account was available to use during this 
period, and the funds held were returned promptly to Mr G when it was closed.
Lloyds arent obliged to provide a reason for the account closure, and in this case have 
declined to do so to Mr G. I cant say theyve done anything by not discussing this in more 
detail. But the reason for the account closure should be rational, factually correct, and non-
discriminatory. The rules of our service allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may 
treat evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example if it contains information about other customers, security information, or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Lloyds have now shared with us 
is information I consider should be kept confidential. 
This means I havent been able to share the reasons for the closure of the accounts in detail 
with Mr G. But based on the information available to me Im satisfied that Lloyds acted fairly 
in making the decision to close Mr Gs account. Im not persuaded this decision was based 
on his race, religion or any other protected characteristic. Im satisfied this was a legitimate 
commercial decision taken by Lloyds, and it wasnt unreasonable. With that in mind, while it 
would have been inconvenient for Mr G to have to open new accounts, Im not inclined to 
direct Lloyds to compensate him for this. 
Mr G has kindly supplied a copy of his credit file  and it looks like the Lloyds account is 
recorded as settled, with no history of outstanding balances. This is factual information about 
the history of the account, so theres nothing unreasonable in Lloyds doing this. There arent 
any other records recorded by Lloyds, such as with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS. 
Each lender will have their own criteria when deciding whether to provide credit and will take 
in to account a number of factors. But from what Mr G has supplied to us Lloyds havent 
recorded any negative information with the credit reference or fraud prevention agencies. If 
other lenders have declined to provide Mr G credit, I cant reasonably conclude this is 
because of the factual information Lloyds have recorded.
Neither Mr G, nor Lloyds, responded to my provisional decision before the deadline for 
responses. As such, it now falls on me to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence afresh, and in the absence of any new points to consider, Im 
satisfied with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Im satisfied that Lloyds acted in line with the terms when closing Mr Gs account. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the reason for closure was because of any of Mr Gs protected 
characteristics. I consider it a legitimate commercial decision by the bank. While Ive no 
doubt it was inconvenient for Mr G, I cant say Lloyds have been unreasonable here.The information Lloyds have reported on Mr Gs credit file is factual  the account is marked 
as settled. This is in line with their obligations to report accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies and I dont consider it unfair.
Overall, I dont see that Lloyds have been unfair or unreasonable in how theyve handled 
Mr Gs account closure. So, on that basis Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman