DRN-3581915
The complaint
Mr H complains The Co-operative Bank plc (COOP) acted unfairly when it blocked his bank 
account. 
What happened
Mr H says following a successful tribunal he had a lump sum deposited with a local financial 
institution. Mr H says this account was restricted to a maximum cash withdrawal of £600 per 
day and it took a few weeks of daily deposits into his COOP bank account, where he wanted 
the funds deposited, in order to initiate a transfer of £13,000 to a pension investment. 
Mr H says that despite providing evidence of the transactions to the COOP counter staff, his 
bank account was blocked and it took several weeks for the block to be lifted, to allow the 
transfer of the monies to his pension investment account  additionally the COOP never told 
him his account had been unblocked. 
Mr H says he also was held waiting for over two hours on the telephone when trying to 
discuss his problem and COOP have provided poor customer service and caused him 
unnecessary stress. Mr H says COOP only offered him £30 as a compensation payment, 
which he says doesnt cover his loss of interest or the trouble he has gone through.  
COOP says it tried to contact Mr H by telephone and left messages with him to contact them 
along with an email but it received no response, and therefore due to the unusual nature of 
the transactions seen through his bank account, it acted fairly when it blocked the account, 
in line with its fraud prevention measures. COOP says when Mr H visited the branch to 
provide the evidence of the transactions, the block was released from his bank account the 
following week. 
The COOP accepted Mr H had experienced long wait times when he contacted them and 
awarded him £30 by way of an apology.  
Mr H wasnt happy with COOPs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt although COOP were entitled to block Mr Hs bank account, given the nature 
of the transactions passing through the account, it failed to let Mr H know the block had been 
lifted, after it had completed its regulatory checks. The investigator felt this caused a delay in 
Mr H being able to make the transfer to his pension investment and asked COOP to pay him 
£200 to compensate for that.  
The COOP accepted the investigators view, but Mr H didnt feel it went far enough and 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr H to be questioned as to the origin of 
the funds he was depositing into his COOP bank account, when he believed he had 
explained this to its counter staff on previous occasions. I can also understand it would have 
been upsetting for Mr H to see his bank account blocked, preventing the transfer to his 
pension investment.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if COOP acted unreasonably when it blocked 
Mr Hs bank account and if it acted soon enough to release it once its regulatory checks had 
been carried out. 
From the information provided I can see that Mr H paid in £600 in cash practically every day 
into his COOP bank account, withdrawing it from his other banking provider, over a few 
weeks. This was explained by Mr H as the other banking provider, where his large tribunal 
payment had been made, set £600 as a daily cash withdrawal limit. So, while perhaps Mr H 
may not have been aware, or chose this as his preferred way of making the deposit to the 
COOP, this wasnt the most efficient way to have deposited the monies, and by doing so it 
would have alerted COOP to a number of unusual transactions. 
Its fair to say that banks like COOP have a regulatory requirement to check transactions 
passing through its customers bank accounts and this is referred to in its terms and 
conditions. While I understand Mr H feels he had informed the counter staff at COOP that 
the monies had come from his other banking provider and showed receipts, it would be the 
COOPs compliance team who  would need to be satisfied of the origination of these 
transactions and decide if any account is blocked or not. 
From the contact records notes I can see that COOP attempted to telephone Mr H before 
the block was placed on the account and also sent an email, so Im satisfied in all probability 
it did attempt to contact Mr H to avoid the block being placed. 
With that in mind, I cant say COOP acted unfairly when it placed the block on Mr Hs bank 
account. 
Where I do have an issue, like the investigator, is the fact I cant see any evidence the 
COOP let Mr H know it had removed the block from his bank account on 8 April 2022, after 
the COOP bank staff had confirmed the origination of the deposits he had made to the 
account. Its reasonable to think if Mr H had been told that at the time, he would have 
initiated the deposit to his pension investment. 
So while its not my role to penalise businesses when mistakes are made and poor service is 
provided, here I agree £200 is a fairer sum to pay Mr H for the lack of access to his bank 
account and the inconvenience this has caused him, allowing for the fact the COOP has 
already paid Mr H £30 for the telephone delays he experienced. 
While Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here.
Putting things right
I instruct The Co-operative Bank plc to pay Mr H £200 for the lack of access to his bank 
account and the trouble and upset caused. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct The Co-operative Bank plc to pay Mr H £200 for the lack of access to his bank 
account and the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman