DRN-4476271
The complaint
Mr W is represented by his solicitors. He and his solicitors say Financial Administration 
Services Limited  operating as Fidelity International (FI)  failed, between December 2021 
and January 2022, to safeguard his Individual Savings Account (ISA) assets, to warn him 
about fraud and to protect his assets from the Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud that 
they were subjected to at the time  leading to a total financial loss of around £256,000. 
FI sympathises with Mr Ws situation and his financial loss, but it disputes the complaint and 
says it discharged its safeguarding and fraud prevention obligations in his case.
What happened
Mr Ws household was subjected to an APP fraud campaign between December 2021 and 
January 2022. He was the second victim of the fraud. His wife was targeted first. His 
solicitors submissions and chronology of events begin with the facts of the fraud she was 
subjected to. The events concerning her case have been addressed separately in her 
complaints. The background to Mr Ws case feature the same events, and can be 
summarised as follows:
Between 2 and 15 December 2021 Mr Ws wife and her assets were targeted for the 
same APP fraud, from the same fraudsters, that was subsequently applied to him.
During this period, she received repeated and persistent contacts and 
communications from the fraudsters purporting to be from the regulator. They gained 
her confidence and convinced her that access to her financial assets had been 
compromised, that the assets were being subjected to fraud, that the matter was 
under regulatory investigation (overseen by them), that she needed to keep this 
information to herself, that she could not disclose the matter to the account providers 
for her financial assets because their staff could be implicated in the fraud, and that 
she needed to follow their [the fraudsters] guidance and cooperate with their 
investigation in order to safeguard her assets. 
She was then manipulated and coached into taking steps that resulted in her 
withdrawing cash holdings from her investment accounts, liquidating investments 
within those accounts and withdrawing the proceeds, moving all the withdrawals into 
her nominated bank account and then transferring all the withdrawals from her bank 
account into a crypto currency wallet controlled by the fraudsters. At this point, and 
thereafter, the fraud was concluded. She lost all the transferred funds. 
The fraudsters then targeted Mr W from 16 December 2021 onwards, and up to 21 January 
2022. During this period, they used the same method they had applied to his wife. 
Withdrawals were made from his FI ISA (on 20, 23, 24 and 29 December 2021) into his 
nominated bank account, and they were eventually transferred into the crypto currency 
wallet controlled by the fraudsters. The present case is about his losses in the FI ISA. He 
incurred losses elsewhere, as part of the same APP fraud campaign, which have been 
addressed in a separate complaint.
Mr W and his wife were assured by the fraudsters that their [false and so called regulatory] 
investigation will conclude and their funds will be returned by February 2022. No return of 
funds happened in that month, or since. His solicitors mainly say that FI failed to give him 
effective warnings about fraud during his liquidation and withdrawal activities; failed to 
properly query the withdrawals, given how unusual they were; failed to detect and warn 
about the risk of exposure to fraud in his activities and to block the transactions within them; 
and failed to detect suspicious activities in the ISA at the time (including his increased 
account log-ins) which were outside the norm for him.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He empathised with the fact that Mr W 
had fallen victim to a cruel scam, but he concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. 
He mainly found that  
Comments in the complaint about FIs complaint handling process and its response 
to Mr Ws solicitors Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) cannot be addressed 
because neither is a regulated activity.
FI provided an execution only service for the ISA. However, regulatory standards set 
out in the Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls (SYSC) 
section of the regulators Handbook require firms to have, maintain and apply 
effective and proportionate policies, procedures, systems and controls to counter the 
risks of being used to further financial crimes (including fraud). FI held this 
responsibility.
There was nothing in Mr Ws online ISA transactions that would have prompted FIs 
suspicion. He had completed the online security checks to access the ISA, and given 
that it provided an execution only service, FI would not have been expected to 
intervene in his transaction decisions. His withdrawals were remitted to the verified 
nominated bank account for the ISA, so there was nothing in this respect to alert FI to 
the chance of fraud. 
His log-in activities were not unusual for someone at retirement age who was 
liquidating his account.
FI did not provide fraud risk warnings, it did not conduct any risk assessments related 
to the implications of the ISA withdrawals and it did not suggest to Mr W that he 
should speak to a financial adviser. It would have been good practice for FI to have 
done these, and the fact that it did not is a shortcoming. However, given that he was 
under the fraudsters instruction to conceal what was happening, even if FI had 
intervened in these ways there is no guarantee Mr W would have listened to its 
intervention.
His solicitors have mentioned personal circumstances at the time that made him 
vulnerable, but FI was not informed about these circumstances until after the fraud 
event/period. Therefore, it could not reasonably have been expected to take extra 
precautions specifically in that respect. 
Mr Ws solicitors disagree with this outcome. 
They say that the investigators views fails to properly take into account the effects of the 
sophisticated nature of the fraud Mr W was subjected to; that FI had a duty to query and 
block the extremely irregular transactions (involving complete liquidation of the ISA) 
regardless of the receiving bank account being that nominated for the ISA; that his past transactions stood in contrast to those in December 2021, so the latter transactions should 
have stood out as unusual and suspicious; that it is wrong to say Mr W would not have 
listened to intervention from FI, it is an irrelevant conclusion and there is no evidence to 
support it; that it is entirely likely that effective warnings from FI would have resulted in him 
realising he was being defrauded; and that the investigators finding about FIs shortcoming 
in failing to provide warnings and notices establishes its breach of the duty of care it owed 
Mr W and its responsibility for his losses.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his views and the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators  I do not uphold 
Mr Ws complaint.
I issued the decisions in his wifes complaints about her losses in the same APP fraud 
campaign. I also issued the decision in the other complaint he submitted to this service 
about the losses he incurred in other investment accounts, due to the same fraud. 
As stated above, the facts of Mr Ws case share the same background as his wifes, and the 
same approach taken by the fraudsters towards her was subsequently applied to him. 
Therefore, there is significant common ground between his and his wifes cases. I did not 
uphold her complaints, and I did not uphold the other complaint he submitted.
Before treating the crux of the present complaint, I wish to address the expressions of 
dissatisfaction that Mr Ws solicitors have made about FIs complaint handling conduct. I 
make no finding on this matter because it is beyond my remit to do so. 
I can determine complaints about regulated activities, like the safeguarding activity in Mr Ws 
core complaint. As the investigator explained in his views complaint handling, in isolation, is 
not a regulated activity. It is also not an ancillary activity connected to the conduct of a 
regulated activity. Sometimes a complaint to a firm and its alleged mishandling of it might 
form a part of the substantive case. If so, addressing the firms complaint handling might be 
a necessary part of determining the overall complaint. Mr Ws complaint is not that type of 
case. Its subject (and the damage caused in it) happened and concluded before the 
complaint to FI, so the complaint handling process is an isolated matter and is one outside 
my remit.
The above conclusion also applies to the comments made on Mr Ws behalf about FIs 
handling of the DSAR. If he and his solicitors consider there has been a wrongdoing in that 
process they can consider approaching the Information Commissioners Office.
As I said in the other decision I issued, the fact that Mr W was, and remains, the victim of a 
sophisticated and deplorable APP fraud campaign is beyond question. FI has acknowledged 
this. The investigator did the same and I have been mindful of this throughout my 
consideration of his case. I understand the emphasis that his solicitors have placed on this 
fact. However, it is also important to note the following: 
FI had no knowledge of the background events as they happened in December 2021. 
Mr W and his wife realised they were victims of the fraud in February 2022, and only 
then was FI informed about what had happened. In other words, as important as it is to give due regard to the effect of the fraud upon him, as it happened, that has no 
bearing on FIs position in the matter. 
Mr W was exposed to the sophisticated nature of the fraud, but FI was not. His 
solicitors say FI ought to have applied certain minimum safeguards especially 
because it should have known how sophisticated APP, and other, frauds can be. 
That is a reasonable argument and I address it below. If their argument also seeks to 
establish that Mr W bears no fault in the matter because he was unduly influenced by 
very sophisticated fraudsters, I do not disagree. However, FI did not know that at the 
time. It did not know what was happening behind his actions, so an argument that 
there is no fault on his part does not automatically mean fault rests with FI. FIs 
responsibility remains a separate consideration.
FI provided an execution only service for the ISA. Nevertheless, the SYSC provisions 
created regulatory obligations that it had to discharge. In addition to the regulatory 
provisions, it would have received, over time, other information and guidance from the 
regulator concerning the need for it to proactively prevent fraud and avoid the facilitation of 
fraud in its operations. As such, FI was responsible for safeguarding Mr Ws assets and for 
protecting them from the risk of fraud. 
However, FIs responsibilities applied in the context of its execution only service, so it could 
and did not give advice, and it could and did not get involved in Mr Ws decisions concerning 
the ISA. It explained to the investigator that automated safeguards existed/exist within the 
online process for logging into the ISA, conducting online transactions in the ISA and making 
withdrawals from it. It argues that Mr W did all these things online, so those safeguards were 
applied and it was alerted to nothing suspicious because they were all done by him, so there 
was nothing suspicious about that. It also highlights that the withdrawals were made to the 
verified nominated bank account for the ISA.
FI concedes that it did nothing more to safeguard the ISA beyond the automated 
safeguarding measures that were applied during his use of the ISA online. There was no 
manual intervention on its part and it did not speak to him or his wife until after it was 
informed about the fraud. Therefore, the main questions to answer are:
Should FI have done more to protect Mr Ws ISA in December 2021, and/or to inform 
him about how his actions at the time potentially created exposure to the risk of 
fraud?
If so, would it have made any difference to Mr Ws position, or to the ISA, at the time?
With regards to the asset liquidations in the ISA, I do not consider that FI was obliged to 
intervene. Mr W conducted the liquidations himself, having logged into the online ISA 
account. There was no indication that online access to the ISA had been compromised, 
because it had not been compromised. From FIs perspective, they were liquidations carried 
out by the ISAs owner in an execution only ISA. That would have been commonplace 
across its ISA operations and would not have caused suspicion, even if it was the first time it 
had happened in Mr Ws case. As far as it was concerned he could have done that for a 
variety of different reasons. I have not seen evidence that it should have enquired further to 
discover the reason, that was of no concern to FI and it was a matter only for Mr W. 
Furthermore, in terms of safety, it is noteworthy that before the withdrawals were made the 
liquidation proceeds remained in the ISA, so they remained safe.
When the liquidation proceeds and cash were taken out of the ISA the situation changed. FI 
was responsible for applying additional safeguards at these points, because the funds were going outside its control and it was obliged to ensure that was happening safely.
Primarily, FI says it achieved this by ensuring the withdrawals could only be made to the 
verified nominated bank account for the ISA, which is what happened. I accept this was the 
case, but I also note and agree with a question put to FI by the investigator in this respect. 
He asked about the safeguards FI had in place to monitor and address withdrawal activities 
that were potentially suspicious. 
FI explained that it did not apply a withdrawal value threshold for this purpose, instead it 
monitored other specific factors. It provided us with some information about these factors but 
explicitly said the information is confidential. This decision will be published. Neither I nor this 
service wish to enable a future/potential fraudsters knowledge of the information FI has 
shared with us, so I will not present that confidential information in this decision. However, I 
confirm that I have considered it. It shows that FI did apply additional safeguards for some 
withdrawals. 
Nevertheless, I have considered whether (or not) the withdrawals in Mr Ws case should 
have prompted a form of manual intervention by FI. On a finely balanced basis, I find that in 
the circumstances of his case the withdrawals could have prompted such intervention, but I 
do not have enough grounds to say that they should have. 
There were substantial total withdrawals made on each of the first three withdrawal dates. I 
do not suggest the fourth and final withdrawal/date is insignificant, but almost £250,000 of 
the total of all withdrawals (which was around £256,000) had been withdrawn over the first 
three dates, so they could be viewed as the main high value withdrawals that, Mr W could 
argue, should have prompted FIs attention.  
The automated process catered for the withdrawals, and because value thresholds did not 
apply they did not prompt any manual intervention by FI. It is beyond my remit to dictate how 
FI should conduct its operations. However, withdrawal value thresholds are commonly used 
by firms as a meaningful way to monitor withdrawals that could potentially be suspicious or, 
at least, as a way to give firms the opportunity to inform customers about fraud risks 
associated with their withdrawals. It would not have been unreasonable to expect FI to apply 
them. However, the fact remains that FI did not operate in this way, so its system did not 
give it cause to intervene. 
Mr Ws solicitors will argue that, regardless of how its system did or did not operate, FIs 
regulatory obligations meant it had the duty to intervene in response to his unusually 
increased logins at the time, the complete liquidation of his ISA and the substantial 
withdrawals from the ISA (which emptied it). They say all were suspicious in the 
circumstances of his case. In addition, they say the investigators finding about FIs 
shortcoming, in terms of its failure to give warnings/notices, establishes their argument.
Even if the correct conclusion is that FI should have intervened for the above reasons, wider 
evidence shows that it would not have made a difference. This is an important finding. My 
task is to determine whether (or not) FIs alleged inaction facilitated the APP fraud. If, as I 
find and explain below, the fraud (and losses) would probably have happened regardless of 
any reasonable intervention from FI then the complaint fails. The investigator found similarly, 
but Mr Ws solicitors said his finding was baseless. I disagree.
A credible basis for the finding exists in Mr Ws other complaint. In that case, there were 
verbal and written interventions by the relevant account provider between 20 and 23 
December 2021. During this period Mr W was put through a formal questionnaire about the 
substantial withdrawal he was making. The fraudsters had coached and prepared him for the 
possibility of this, so he followed their guidance and disclosed nothing about the background events to the provider. He gave answers to the questionnaire that created no grounds for 
concern or suspicion.
During the same period the account provider also sent him written information that included 
notice about the risks of fraud that he should be aware of in the context of his withdrawals. 
Borrowing from evidence in the other case, the information included  notice that Its a good 
idea to familiarise yourself with the sort of scams around at the moment. Visit our Security 
Centre for more information and learn how you can stay safe by clicking here; dedicated 
information about APP fraud (within the link in this quote) including about the need to be 
aware of fraudsters pretending to be from trusted organisations like the regulator, fraudsters 
telling the victim their assets are at risk, fraudsters saying the assets need to be moved into 
a safe place, and fraudsters telling the victim to give false reasons to their bank or other 
financial institution in order to make withdrawals. 
The written information also described how APP fraud had increased significantly in 2021.
Mr W had the aforementioned warnings and notices, albeit from the other account provider, 
between 20 and 23 December 2021. This happened around the time of his first withdrawal 
from the FI ISA and before the three withdrawals that followed. Therefore, this was relatively 
early intervention. It was not from FI, it was from elsewhere, but it was intervention 
nevertheless. During this period, he had yet to move all the withdrawn funds into the crypto 
currency wallet that the fraudsters controlled, and by heeding the warnings and notices from 
the other account provider he could and probably would have avoided most, if not all, of his 
FI ISA losses.
The above is not intended as a criticism of Mr W. I am aware that his trust and confidence 
had been severely manipulated, abused and misused by the fraudsters at the time, so he 
believed them and genuinely believed his cooperation with them would help safeguard his 
assets. These were the reasons for his approach at the time. However, the above findings 
do address the question about whether (or not) intervention by FI would have made a 
difference.
There was no intervention by FI, but there were verbal and written interventions by the other 
account provider at a time that was very relevant to what was happening in the FI ISA, and 
in a closely connected matter  given that Mr Ws action in all his accounts resulted from the 
same fraud campaign. The questionnaire queried his reason for making withdrawals, but he 
was so unduly influenced by the fraudsters that he responded in the manner they had 
coached him to (in a manner that raised no concern or suspicion). On balance, I consider 
that the same outcome would have applied if FI questioned him about the ISA activities. The 
written notices and warnings about APP fraud did not discourage him from following the 
fraudsters instructions in the other case. On balance, I consider that if the same type of 
notices and warnings had been issued by FI they too would not have discouraged him from 
following the fraudsters instructions for the ISA.
Overall and for the above reasons, I do not find that any reasonable intervention by FI would 
have made a difference to the safety of Mr Ws position or the safety of his ISA at the time of 
the APP fraud. I have also considered the matter of vulnerability that has been cited in his 
case. It is of a personal nature and it does not need to be set out in this decision. FI was not 
aware of the matter at the time of the APP fraud, so I do not consider it to be a factor that 
should have influenced its approach.
Overall, on balance and based on all the reasoned grounds above, I find that FI cannot 
reasonably be held responsible for Mr Ws losses.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman