DRN-2848263
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct 
(Hastings) for charging a cancellation fee after she cancelled her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S used a comparison website to take out a car insurance policy through Hastings  who 
were acting as broker. Mrs S bought the policy on 26 November 2020 to start on 5 
December. Hastings contacted Mrs S to say they needed to verify some details with her. 
They asked for confirmation of Mrs Ss UK residency year. Having received confirmation of 
Mrs Ss residency date, and this being different to the date given when the policy was taken 
out, Hastings explained an additional premium of £40.21 was payable plus a £30 
administration fee. Mrs S declined this and chose to cancel the policy  which was after the 
cooling off period expired. Hastings then charged a cancellation fee of £45. 
Mrs S complained about the fee charged and about Hastings carrying out their validation 
checks 28 days after the policy was taken out  this meant she couldnt cancel within the 14-
day cooling off period. Hastings explained the £45 cancellation fee is clearly explained in the 
policy documents and terms and conditions. Hasting also said they can carry out validation 
checks at any point throughout the policy year. 
   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S. He thought Hastings hadnt acted unfairly in 
charging a cancellation fee. Mrs S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
My starting point is Mrs Ss car insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and, 
under a section headed Your rights to cancel this policy, it says If the Primary Policyholder 
or we cancel the Policy at any other time, well refund the part of the Premium on a pro rata 
basis for the Period of Cover that hasnt been used for each Car, minus our after 14-day 
cancellation fee and our other non-refundable fees. The policy documents then set out the 
fees charged by Hastings to cover the costs involved in setting up, servicing and cancelling a 
policy. It says Hastings charge a fee of £30 for changes they need to make if a customer 
hasnt provided correct information. And, they charge a cancellation fee of £45 if a customer 
cancels a policy after the cooling off period. 
So, I dont think its unreasonable for Hastings to charge a cancellation fee as Mrs S does 
cancel her policy after the cooling off period. And, the terms and conditions allow Hastings to 
charge a cancellation fee of £45 in this event.   
That said, I understand Mrs S is concerned about the timeline of events here. Mrs S says the 
demand for the additional £70.21 was on 24 December  which is 19 days after the start of 
the policy and 28 days after she bought the policy. So, Mrs S feels she has been denied a 
cooling off period. She says the demand for an additional premium is what led her to cancel 
her policy and feels it was unreasonable for Hastings to wait until the cooling off period 
expired before telling her they would be charging her an additional premium. 
I understand Mrs Ss concern in this respect, so Ive looked at the timeline of events. Mrs S 
purchases the policy on 26 November and pays a premium of £372.71. Theres no dispute 
here that Mrs S, when purchasing the policy, didnt provide accurate information about when 
she became a UK resident. Policy documents are then sent to Mrs S the same day. The 
policy, and cooling off period, then starts on 5 December. Hastings email Mrs S on 7 
December and say they need to confirm some details with her. They ask Mrs S to confirm 
her UK residency date. Mrs S emails Hastings on 9 December to confirm her date of UK 
residency. The cooling off period then expires on 19 December. I can see Hastings contact 
Mrs S on 24 December and explain theyve amended details on her policy and this has led 
to an additional premium of £40.21 plus a £30 administration fee becoming payable. Mrs S 
then cancels her policy. Hastings email Mrs S on 29 January 2021 and say the refund due to 
her is £248.76. They apply a deduction of £123.95 for the time on cover, £20 arrangement 
fee and £45 cancellation fee.     
From the point Mrs S provides confirmation of her UK residency, she has 10 calendar days 
remaining of her cooling off period. Hastings dont write to her within this period letting her 
know about the additional premium  this is done five days after the end of the cooling off 
period. While I can understand Mrs Ss frustration, I dont think Hastings have acted 
unreasonably here. Hastings say the cooling off period is an opportunity for Mrs S to review 
the welcome pack and ensure all policy details are accurate and to contact Hastings if any 
details need amending. And, I agree with this. The welcome pack sent to Mrs S provides her 
cover summary and details of all the information she has entered when taking out the policy. 
In the welcome pack, Hastings ask Mrs S to check all information and let them know straight 
away if anything isnt correct. This wouldve given Mrs S an opportunity to correct the 
information about her UK residency sooner, but I cant see she corrects this until Hastings 
contact her. Theres no evidence here that Hastings knew an additional premium would lead 
to Mrs S cancelling her policy so I cant say their actions were deliberate in writing to her 
after the cooling off period expires. I can understand Mrs Ss point about why Hastings 
couldnt have let her know within the cooling off period, but I dont think the time taken by 
Hastings is unreasonable.    
Mrs S says, when she applied for the policy online, she didnt notice the residency question 
was pre-answered with a tick as resident in the UK since birth. Mrs S says she didnt 
correct this as the question was easy to miss. Ive seen a screenshot of this question from 
the comparison website and it asks, When did you become a UK resident? and there is 
then a box underneath which says From birth or a separate box for a customer to complete 
the month and year they became a UK resident. Theres a box beside this which says, 
Insurance providers require this information in order to provide a quote. This guidance note 
suggests its an important question for the insurer. 
Hastings have provided a screenshot showing a number of quotes generated by Mrs S on 
26 November using the comparison website  some show the UK residency question 
answered as 1939 and some as 1950. So, I think it was reasonable for Hastings to ask for 
verification on the answer to this. 
Mrs S says shes not very experienced in completing things online. So, while I accept, in 
some circumstances, sometimes questions may be missed while completing a form online, 
that is why brokers ask customers to check all details on the cover summary to ensure it is 
correct  and thats what Hastings did.   I can see Mrs S asks whether the question about UK residency is appropriate and whether 
living in the UK for 70 years instead of from birth can be an insurance risk. Different insurers 
take different approaches to risk. Some are more cautious and that may mean they price 
more highly on average than other insurers. Or they may choose not to offer policies at all in 
circumstances where other insurers are willing to offer a low premium. This is a choice for 
each insurer to make and theyre entitled to be as risk taking or risk averse as they see fit. 
An insurer will decide what factors to take into account and how much weight to put on each 
of them. Some may use only a few factors, others many more. Hastings are acting as broker 
here rather than insurer, so I cant see there has been any error by them as they are simply 
carrying out the risk protocol put in place by the insurer. 
Mrs S is also concerned that Hastings said they would be taking the additional £70.21 in a 
couple of days and would be taking this from the card details they hold for Mrs S. I 
understand why this was of concern to Mrs S but I can see Mrs S agreed to a process 
Hastings call Continuous payment authority which means Mrs S has given Hastings the 
right to take any future payments from the card details they hold. 
Taking this all into account, I cant say Hastings have acted unreasonably in correcting the 
details and then asking for an additional premium and administration fee. While I do 
acknowledge Mrs Ss frustrations around the timing of the notice to her about the additional 
premium, I cant say Hastings have made an error here. Mrs S did have all cover details 
before the start of the policy to check all information was correct.  
I do understand Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision but I wish to reassure her that Ive 
carefully considered all information in the matter. And, while I understand what the source of 
her frustration is, I cant say Hastings have acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman