DRN-3200848
The complaint
Miss B is complaining that Bank of Scotland plc (BofS) couldnt tell her whether it had paid or 
received any commission on a mortgage she had, and handled her query and subsequent 
complaint poorly.
What happened
Miss B complained to BofS in early February 2021. She wanted to know whether the bank 
had received or paid any commission that she hadnt been told about on a mortgage she 
took out in 2002. She wanted any commission refunded to her.
A couple of weeks later Miss B had a phone call with a member of staff (D), who asked 
some questions to establish exactly what the query was. He then said he didnt think the 
bank had received any commission. Miss B asked for that to be put in writing.
D wrote to Miss B, saying it was possible that the bank had paid commission (an introduction 
fee) to the broker she used when applying for the mortgage. But he didnt think the bank still 
had a record of this as the mortgage had been closed in 2003, and it didnt keep records 
indefinitely. He also said that even if it had paid commission this wouldnt have impacted 
upon Miss B  it wasnt for example, added on to her mortgage in any way. D also explained 
that Miss Bs 2002 mortgage offer said the bank would tell her the amount of any 
commission if she asked, so it didnt think it hadnt disclosed the possibility of it paying this. 
Miss B then complained about the way shed been spoken to and the investigation of her 
complaint. This complaint was dealt with by a different member of staff (C). C thought D had 
acted reasonably during the phone call, and had asked relevant questions to try to 
understand what the basis for Miss Bs original complaint was. She apologised if the call had 
been interpreted as unhelpful, as that wasnt the intention. C also thought the letter D sent 
explained that Miss B hadnt been disadvantaged by any commission the bank might have 
paid, even if the records of payment (if any) were no longer kept.
Miss B remained unhappy about the way the bank handled her complaint and wants 
compensation for this and the undisclosed commission, as she believes the bank should 
have that information.
When Miss B brought her complaint to us for review, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He listened to the phone call Miss B complained about, but said he thought the 
questions asked wouldnt have caused Miss B any unnecessary distress, as they were to 
identify the exact nature of the complaint. Our investigator said also that it was impossible to 
now check whether any commission had been paid as there were no records about this 
dating back to 2002. He didnt think it unreasonable for the bank not to keep records from so 
long ago.
Miss B has asked for an ombudsman to decide her complaint, and Ive been asked to do 
that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that this isnt what Miss B wants to hear, 
so Ill explain how Ive reached this decision, which is the final part of our review of the 
complaint. 
I can understand why Miss B wanted the bank to tell her if it had paid or received any 
commission when her mortgage was set up in 2002. Theres been a lot of publicity around 
undisclosed commission linked to insurance policies often sold alongside mortgages, and 
sometimes that wasnt in a customers best interests.
However, this complaint wasnt about commission linked to an insurance policy  it was 
about whether the bank had paid or received any commission in respect of Miss Bs 
mortgage.
I think there are two parts to the complaint so Ill deal with them separately. 
Commission
The first part of this complaint was whether the bank paid or received a commission that 
Miss B didnt know about. BofS said there was no reason why it would have received a 
commission in 2002 linked to the mortgage. It went on to explain that it might have paid a 
commission to the broker who arranged the mortgage for her. But it also said that if it had, it 
wouldnt have impacted upon Miss B in any way  so she wouldnt have been financially 
worse off. 
In addition, the bank said the mortgage offer sent to Miss B in 2002 said it would tell Miss B 
the amount of any commission it paid if she asked. Ive seen that paperwork and it does say 
this. I cant see that Miss B asked for this information before 2021. Thats about 18 years 
after her mortgage was closed, and BofS says it no longer holds records of commission paid 
(if there was any). I think thats reasonable given how long ago the mortgage account 
closed: I wouldnt expect either party to keep records indefinitely. I accept that BofS does still 
have some paperwork relating to Miss Bs mortgage  for example the mortgage offer I 
referred to above. But that doesnt mean it has to keep all records for so long. 
Even if I did think BofS should keep the information (and I dont), I dont think this would 
affect my decision. It might help if I explain that many lenders did (and still do) pay brokers a 
commission for introducing a borrower to them. But this is almost always a payment made 
by the lender to the broker, and isnt added to the mortgage. So even if BofS did pay a 
commission in 2002, its very unlikely likely this would have impacted on Miss B. That means 
I wont be asking BofS to pay any compensation for not knowing if it paid commission or not.
The call and subsequent complaint
Ill turn now to the initial call and how the subsequent complaint was dealt with. Ive listened 
to the call in full, and I didnt hear anything untoward. I can hear that D is trying to 
understand exactly what the complaint is about, and there seems to be some confusion 
initially whether its about commission on insurance policies or the mortgage itself. I cant say 
Ds questions are unreasonable  Ive read Miss Bs original letter of complaint that the call 
was responding to. That letter is in the main about commission on insurance policies, so I ca 
understand why D asked questions to make sure he understood the query. Miss B says D 
spoke over her and suggested shed copied the text of her complaint from somewhere else. I didnt hear him do the former, although I do understand Miss Bs recollections might 
be different. D did mention copying words which Miss B thinks is unacceptable. But BofS did 
apologise if it had upset Miss B and that it hadnt meant to. An apology can be a good way to 
put things right, and I think it was appropriate here. That means I dont think the bank need 
do more than it has.
Miss B doesnt think BofS properly dealt with her initial complaint both in the phone call with 
D and afterwards. I havent seen anything that suggests this, or that D wasnt interested in 
her concerns. From what I can see BofS searched for very old records without success, and 
gave Miss B a reasonable explanation of what most likely happened. Thats what Id expect 
it to do in circumstances where there is limited information available.
Miss B also says its not acceptable that a colleague deal with her complaint about D. I 
appreciate how Miss B feels about this, but it isnt appropriate for me to intervene in how 
BofS deals with complaints. Thats because BofS is entitled to decide how it deals with 
complaints as part of its commercial decisions. I can only say whether I think the result of the 
process was fair and reasonable. I think it was. The important point was that it reviewed 
what had happened and did what was needed to put things right for Miss B. As I said above, 
I think BofS did that.
My final decision
My final decision is, for the reasons given above, that I do not uphold this complaint and I do 
not require Bank of Scotland plc to do more than it already has.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman