DRN-4340953
The complaint
Mr A complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) provided poor customer service 
after its self-service machine malfunctioned. 
What happened
Mr A had an account with Barclays. He visited a Barclays branch on 24 May 2023 to deposit 
several thousand pounds in cash using a Barclays self-service machine. An error occurred 
with the machine that meant it didnt account for all of the money deposited by Mr A  it was 
short by £420. Mr A spoke to a member of staff who initially couldnt find that any money was 
missing. Mr A then spoke to the branch manager who checked the machine and located the 
missing money. Mr As cash deposit was credited to his account on the same day. The 
manager spoke to Mr A and offered him £30 compensation.  
Mr A complained to Barclays about the fault with the cash deposit machine. He was also 
unhappy with how members of staff treated him. He said he felt fobbed off and thought it 
was only when he stood his ground that proper checks were carried out. He said he was 
initially told by the branch manager that there was no money missing and said he was asked 
to leave the branch. Mr A asked for £420 compensation, as this was the amount of money 
that initially couldnt be located.  
Barclays responded and apologised for the inconvenience caused by the machine 
malfunctioning. It said it appreciated Mr A was extremely concerned about the missing cash, 
but said it would still expect customers to remain calm and act in a reasonable manner 
towards staff. Barclays said it issued a warning letter to Mr A because of his behaviour in 
branch. Barclays said it wouldnt offer Mr A £420 compensation as he hadnt lost that 
amount of money. It said the £30 already offered in branch, for the malfunctioning of the self-
service machine, was fair. 
Mr A remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this Service. He said that as a 
result of this incident he had to pay a £185 charge for rebooking the delivery of a vehicle, 
and said he had parked on double yellow lines, as he thought his trip to the bank would only 
take a few minutes, but said it took over 30 minutes. Mr A said the branch manager tried to 
use their position of power to fool him out of £420. He said hed been given a warning for his 
behaviour that cant be proven. Mr A asked for compensation of £640 to cover the £420 he 
says he was originally told couldnt be found, the £185 delivery rebooking fee and the £35 
parking ticket penalty charge. He also asked for compensation for the time he wasted 
dealing with this matter. 
Our Investigator said she wasnt going to ask Barclays to take any further action. Mr A didnt 
agree with the outcome, so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking first at the issue about the self-service machine malfunctioning, all parties agree that 
something went wrong here. The machine didnt register the amount of money Mr A tried to 
deposit and he was put in the position where he had to ask staff for help. It was also the 
case that the money couldnt initially be found, and it was only when the branch manager 
intervened and searched the machine that the money was located and credited to Mr As 
account. Barclays has already offered Mr A £30 compensation for the inconvenience of the 
machine malfunctioning. So Ive considered whether I think this is a fair amount, and Ive 
decided it is. Ill explain why I say that. 
I cant see that Mr A has suffered a financial loss as a result of the machine malfunctioning.  
I understand that he holds Barclays responsible for having to pay £185 to rebook having a 
vehicle delivered, but I cant see how Barclays would be responsible for this. The full amount 
of money Mr A tried to deposit was deposited on the day the machine malfunctioned. So the 
full amount was credited in the same way it would have been if this incident hadnt 
happened. It might well be the case that Mr A has had to pay to rebook the delivery of a 
vehicle, but I cant see how this has anything to do with Barclays. Mr A also said he was 
issued with a parking fine as a result of staying longer in the bank than anticipated. But it 
was Mr As choice to park on double yellow lines, so any consequence that arises out of that 
decision is not for Barclays to deal with. 
Mr A has also asked for Barclays to pay £420 compensation, which is the amount that was 
temporarily unaccounted for. But I cant see any good reason why Mr A would be awarded 
that specific amount of money, in particular because the cash was found. Mr A might want to 
see Barclays penalised in some way for whats happened, but this Service doesnt punish 
businesses for making errors  thats the role of the regulator. When deciding how much 
compensation should be paid if a business has made an error, as Barclays has here, this 
Service will look at the impact the error had on the consumer.
 
As there was no financial loss here, Ive looked at whether this matter was likely to have 
caused distress and inconvenience. I completely understand why Mr A was very concerned 
that his money went missing in the way it did. With no receipt available from the self-service 
machine, Im sure he would have been worried about how this matter might be resolved. But, 
as I said, it was resolved quickly so by the time Mr A left Barclays on that day all of the 
money had been accounted for and credited to his account. So I think the amount of £30 
already awarded by Barclays is a fair amount to cover the distress and inconvenience 
caused by his experience in branch. 
Looking at the customer service provided after the malfunction, Mr A is upset that he thought 
staff werent quick enough to help. And he thought staff were suggesting he wasnt being 
honest about the amount of money hed tried to deposit. Mr A has also talked in some detail 
about the response of the branch manager and is especially unhappy about their approach 
to dealing with the matter. Mr A believes this matter was only resolved because he took 
control of the situation. 
The difficulty is that I wasnt there so I cant know precisely what was said between all 
parties. Mr A might well have perceived staff as being unhelpful and felt that how they dealt 
with him suggested they werent sure that he was being honest about the amount of money 
he tried to deposit. Theres no question that Mr A was being honest in his dealings with 
Barclays so, from his perspective, I can understand how being questioned about what had 
happened and how much money had gone missing might have been frustrating. However, I 
do think its reasonable for staff to ask questions to help them work out how to approach and 
rectify the situation that arose. 
So while I dont doubt that Mr A felt both embarrassed and frustrated that this situation arose 
in the first place, and while I appreciate I wasnt there so cant know for sure what happened, I dont see anything here that suggests staff dealt with this situation badly. And the fact is 
that staff found Mr As money and did so within a relatively short period of time and prior to 
him leaving the branch. They also ensured it was credited to his account on the same day, in 
spite of the matter being resolved after the branch had closed. So, as I said, while I dont 
know what was said between both parties, I can see that this matter was quickly resolved. 
This means I dont think Barclays needs to take any further action in relation to the customer 
service Mr A received following the machine malfunctioning. 
Mr A is concerned that the behaviour letter issued by the branch manager has in some way 
left a mark against his name with his local branch. Again, I cant know what was said that led 
to the branch manager issuing this letter, as I wasnt there, although I think its fair to say that 
both parties acknowledge that this was a tense situation. For his part, Mr A also 
acknowledges that he raised his voice when he thought the matter hadnt been dealt with 
properly and its my understanding that members of staff felt intimidated and asked the 
branch manager to deal with what was happening. I think its fair to say that a branch 
manager is best placed to have a good understanding of how members of staff might feel in 
a situation like this one. So I am not going to interfere with their assessment of the situation 
and their decision to issue a behaviour warning letter to Mr A.
 
Mr A was concerned that when he spoke to the branch manager some days after the 
incident, he was told that his complaint couldnt be escalated. However, as our Investigator 
explained, this Service cant look into all complaints brought to us. Broadly speaking, we can 
only look at activities that are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Complaint 
handling  which is what Mr A is referring to here  is not a regulated activity. So I cant look 
at what was or wasnt said to Mr A when he discussed escalating his complaint with the 
branch manager. 
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, but I am not asking Barclays to increase 
the amount of compensation already offered, as I think that amount is fair. 
My final decision
I am not asking Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman