DRN-2733787
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance trading as More Thans decision to reject a 
claim he made following the theft of his bicycle. Mr P made a claim to RSA under his home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr P reported the theft of his bicycle from a residential garage underneath the 
apartment building where he lives. He said bicycles arent allowed to be kept in the 
apartments. Mr P said the garage was secure and could only be accessed by residents 
using a key fob. He said CCTV footage showed his bicycle  which was locked to an 
immovable object  was stolen by cutting through the lock. Mr P provided details of a police 
report and told his insurer RSA that the thief had forced entry to the underground garage. 
RSA rejected his claim. It said it considered the underground garage to be an open and 
communal space and so didnt fall under its definition of a garage or outbuilding belonging to 
his home.
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought RSA had unfairly declined 
Mr Ps claim. She considered what Mr P had told RSA - that the bicycle was kept in secure 
storage with CCTV footage and access only by way of a key fob. She didnt think it was clear 
in the policy wording that RSA would consider an underground residential garage as the 
same as an open communal space similar to a public car park. So she recommended Mr Ps 
complaint should be upheld and RSA should meet his claim. 
Mr P accepted the investigators findings. RSA didnt agree. It said Mr Ps home is defined 
as a private dwelling. The garage and outbuilding at the home address would not include 
communal areas and the policy doesnt provide cover for that, only Mr Ps apartment and its 
contents. It said as the underground garage was shared by other residents, it is open to a 
wider group of people.
RSA said it didnt list this as an exclusion as there was no intention to provide cover for a 
communal area. As its outside the scope of the policy, RSA said cover isnt included. 
RSA said Mr P could have bought additional cover under pedal cycle cover which would 
have protected his loss in these circumstances. It didnt provide advice when Mr P bought 
the policy, so he chose his level of cover.
Our investigator didnt change her view. She said RSA declined the claim because it 
excluded shared bike storage areas in apartment buildings from its definition of garage and 
outbuilding to the home. She thought RSA should have made this clearer. And so she 
maintained the view that it was reasonable for Mr P to assume that the storage area where 
he kept his bicycle would fall inside the definition of garage or outbuilding. 
RSA asked for an ombudsman to decide. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSAs policy defines home as The house together with its garages and outbuildings all 
used for domestic purposes including any part of the house used for business purposes.
From the screenshot provided by RSA, the online notes in relation to the optional additional 
benefit of pedal cycle cover read: protect your bikes when you take them out for a ride
RSA says if Mr P had chosen this benefit, the circumstances of the theft of his bicycle would 
have been covered. 
But I dont think this makes a difference in this case. RSA doesnt define the terms garages 
or outbuildings in its policy wording. It says contents cover includes loss or damage due to 
theft from a garage or outbuilding up to a maximum of £3,000.
RSA says it wouldnt provide cover for Mr P in his circumstances as it considers the 
underground garage a communal area which is excluded from cover. But I dont think Mr P 
could have reasonably been expected to know this from the policy wording. I cant see 
where RSA defines what it means by garage or outbuilding in order for Mr P to understand 
the underground garage he was using would be excluded by RSA. Given the potentially 
significant consequences for a consumer, I think RSA should have been clearer about its 
exclusion. 
In this case, Mr P said CCTV footage was available showing his bicycle was locked to an 
immovable object when it was stolen from a residential underground garage with CCTV and 
access only available by key fob.
When RSA rejected Mr Ps claim, it said it didnt provide cover for contents out in the open. 
I dont think the storage area for Mr Ps bike could be considered as being out in the open. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think RSAs decision to decline Mr Ps bike was 
reasonable. And so Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and asking RSA to meet his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance trading as More Than to meet Mr Ps claim for the theft of his bicycle. 
If Mr P has paid for replacement items which would otherwise have been covered under the 
claim  subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy - Royal & Sun Alliance 
trading as More Than should reimburse Mr P (subject to proof of payment).
Royal & Sun Alliance trading as More Than should pay interest on any reimbursement it 
pays at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of payment by Mr P to the date of 
refund. 
If Royal & Sun Alliance trading as More Than considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from any interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman