DRN-2719086
The complaint
Mr L has complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly declined part of his 
claim for accident damage under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had an accident in his car, and he made a claim under his policy. His car was taken to 
a garage chosen by esure to be repaired. When he made his claim, Mr L explained the 
damage to the external parts of his car but didnt mention any damage caused by the 
accident to the interior of his car. However, Mr L later said he was holding a hot drink and 
hadnt realised that the accident had caused him to spill his drink onto the passenger seat. 
He said there were bags and papers restricting his view at the time and he was shaken up 
from the accident, so failed to mention this when making his claim.
Mr L said when he collected his repaired car from the garage, he saw someone using some 
type of cleaning product on his interior leather seat. He said this had caused discolouration 
to the seat. The garage said he was mistaken. It said the stain was on the seat when the car 
was brought in to the garage and it hadnt tried to repair the interior of the car. However, Mr 
L felt the garage contributed to making the stain worse.
esure rejected Mr Ls claim for the damage to the seat as it didnt think this was caused by 
the accident or through actions of the repairers, so it said it wasnt covered under the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he thought esure had applied the terms and 
conditions of the policy fairly. He thought esure had taken reasonable steps to consider the 
damage to the seat to try and find the cause of the damage. As he thought its engineers had 
reasonably concluded they didnt think the damage was accident related, he thought esure 
had been fair in declining the claim. As Mr L didnt agree, the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure didnt repair the stain on the passenger seat, because it said it wasnt caused by, or 
related to the accident. Mr L claimed the repairer made the stain worse by using an 
inappropriate cleaning product on it. I will look at both these points in assessing this 
complaint.
I have checked the terms and conditions from the policy. These are clear and say esure will 
cover Mr L for all loss and damage to his car which was caused directly by the accident, but 
it wont cover him for any loss or damage that wasnt. As esure appointed the repairer, I 
would say esure would be liable if anything went wrong with the repairs.
Mr L said the accident caused him to spill a hot drink which led to the stain on the passenger 
seat. However, this has been challenged by esure. It said the stain looked to be ink based 
and not related to the incident. esure also said it listened to the initial call it had with Mr L, it 
said on the call you didnt mention spilling a drink and when asked if there was anything 
inside the car that was damage you said no. Mr L accepted this and said he didnt realise 
the stain existed until he collected his repaired car from the garage. esure also checked with 
the third party involved in the accident, who didnt recall Mr L spilling a drink in the car or on 
himself and didnt see any visible damage to clothing he was wearing.
Mr L was unhappy that esure had relied on the opinions of three engineers from the 
repairers, all of whom had given different theories as to what substance had caused the 
stain.
I think that both the accounts given by Mr L and esure are plausible but are opposing. The 
evidence for this claim isnt conclusive, so my decision will be based on the balance of 
probabilities. 
I think the evidence is stronger and therefore weighted towards esure that the stain wasnt 
caused by the accident. I think esures investigation of the complaint has been reasonable. It 
has listened to the initial claim call where Mr L didnt mention any internal damage to his car, 
and it has sought the opinions of three different engineers from the repairers and spoken 
with the third party from the accident. esure has also considered Mr Ls account that he 
spilled his drink. However, it didnt think was likely given the concentration / pattern of the 
stain on the passenger seat. 
I have looked at the photographs of the stain myself and I agree with esure. The stain is 
concentrated in one area of the seat close to the centre of the car. As esure has suggested, I 
would have expected some splash / splatter marks on the seat to accompany the stain and 
would have expected a spillage in these circumstances to have caused damage to spread 
further across the seat, beyond the current shape of the stain. esure said it didnt think the 
stain was caused by the accident. I agree. As this wouldnt be covered by the policy, I think 
esure was fair in declining this part of the claim, so I dont uphold this aspect of the 
complaint.
Mr L had commented that he saw the repairers administer cleaning fluid to the stain. esure 
has denied this, it said it didnt try and repair the stain as it wasnt part of the claim. I have 
checked the work order for the repairs. There is no reference to damage inside the car. So, I 
think as the repairers hadnt planned to repair the stain as part of the work order and the 
repairers said it didnt try and clean the stain, its a reasonable assumption of esure that this 
work didnt take place. 
esure investigated this further by asking a senior technical engineer to review the pictures of 
the stain and he didnt see evidence that anyone had attempted to clean the stain. I cant say 
beyond doubt that the stain wasnt cleaned, but Mr L hasnt provided any evidence to show it 
was. I think the evidence that is available, suggests its more likely that the repairers didnt 
try and clean the stain and didnt contribute to making it worse. Therefore, I think esure has 
been fair in declining this aspect of the claim and so I dont uphold this aspect of the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require esure Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman