DRN-4163198
The complaint
A business Ill refer to as P complains Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined an escape of 
water claim under a Real Estate Select insurance policy. 
What happened
Details of the claim are known to all parties, so I wont repeat them again in detail here. In 
this decision, Ill summarise my understanding and mainly focus on giving the reasons for 
reaching the outcome I have. 
P is the leaseholder of a flat it rents to tenants. The property suffered extensive damage in 
2022. P says it was the result of a ruptured waste pipe in the property above and backing up 
of drains, and a second incident where pipes leaked in the screed floor. 
The landlord of the building arranged for the waste pipe to be replaced and cleared 
underground pipes. P arranged the removal of the tenants contents, repairs, and 
reinstatement works. P raised a claim to Allianz seeking a payment of roughly £21,000 for 
the cost of reinstatement works, and five months loss of rent. 
Allianz told P they couldnt assist with the claim. Two visits took place at Ps property and 
loss adjusters concluded broadly that damage occurred overtime due to poor external 
conditions and a lack of mitigation of ongoing maintenance issues. Photos of damage 
showed pre-existing issues and significant property deterioration in the immediate aftermath 
of the incidents, which Allianz said wasnt consistent with a one-off insured event. 
Allianz also say the previous tenant explained damp was an ongoing problem during their 
time at the property. And they had to switch the water off when not in use to prevent leaks. 
P said photos show standing water which supports an escape of water occurred, the tenant 
hadnt reported damp or leak issues previously, and the property was found to be in good 
condition when inspected in 2019. P also says mould growth seen in photos was the result 
of damp conditions and other factors. As it didnt agree with the claim decision, it 
approached our Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Allianz took 
reasonable steps to reach a fair decision on the claim. He was more persuaded the 
problems occurred overtime and werent the result of a one-off insured event. P didnt agree. 
As the complaint cant be resolved informally, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I must decide is whether it was fair and reasonable for Allianz to decline the claim 
based on the information available to them at the time. Or, whether Im more persuaded the 
damage occurred in the way P says it did. 
P promptly appointed contractors following the 1 February 2022 escape of water incident. 
They removed damaged belongings owned by the tenant, and pumped water out. An invoice 
was sent to P on 17 February 2022 confirming these works were completed. 
P provided photos of the damage. These photos show a person inside the property Id say is 
likely the tenant, along with some of their belongings. So, Im persuaded these photos were 
more likely than not taken in the immediate aftermath of the 1 February 2022 incident. 
P reported the loss occurred due to a ruptured waste pipe within the kitchen in the property 
above and backing up of underground drains. One photo shows an external drain and P 
describes this as showing Backing up of Drains to rear of flat. There was another issue 
reported by P, in April 2022, which Ill return to later. 
Photos show the extent of damage such as mould growth which can be seen on the walls. 
This damage isnt something Id expect to see in the immediate aftermath of a sudden, 
unforeseen, and unexpected one-off insured event. Rather, its my view this damage is 
consistent with damage that occurs overtime. 
Therefore, Im more persuaded the photos of damage supports Allianzs view that damage 
isnt consistent with a one-off insured event and occurred overtime. 
I acknowledge P says mould growth seen in photos was the result of the damp atmosphere, 
the heating being on, and double-glazed windows. That may be the case. But Im not 
persuaded the extent of the mould growth and damage seen in photos occurred between the 
time the incident was said to have occurred to these photos being taken.  
Allianz concluded, broadly, that damage occurred overtime due to poor external conditions 
and a lack of maintenance. It seems on balance the likely proximate cause was a blockage 
in the waste system that caused water to back up through the sink in the kitchen of the 
above property. This is something that would occur overtime. The landlord had the waste 
pipe replaced and cleared the underground drainage. 
They also say their claim decision was supported by the tenant who said issues with damp 
and mould was a common problem. And the water had to be turned off when not in use to 
avoid a leak. I acknowledge P says the tenant didnt bring these issues to its attention and 
had the extent of damage seen in photos been present overtime, the property wouldnt have 
been habitable. 
There was an inventory and schedule of condition report completed in 2019. This says the 
property was generally in good condition having been freshly painted throughout. There was 
some staining on walls found. So, I do take Ps point this report supports the property was 
generally in good condition then. But given much of it was freshly painted prior to this report 
being completed, its unlikely any existing damp and mould issues would have been 
immediately apparent. Allianzs loss adjuster also reported they found staining appearing on 
walls during their visit. 
Returning to the other leak found while repair works were underway. The claim notes 
suggest this was found during the time reinstatement works were being carried out, around 
April 2022. I say this because P told Allianz only some snagging works remained left to be 
done at this point. 
In the event of an escape of water, an insurance policy is generally designed to cover the 
resultant damage and not the repair or replacement of the leaking pipe itself. I understand 
the existing pipework said to be leaking was abandoned, and new pipework was installed. I 
wouldnt expect Allianz to bear the cost of this work under the policy. In concluding, based on all the information available to me, Im not satisfied Allianz failed to 
take reasonable steps to fairly assess the claim. Nor am I persuaded their decision to 
decline the claim as damage wasnt consistent with a one-off insured event, and problems 
occurred overtime, was an unreasonable one. 
Therefore, I dont find Allianz acted unfairly or unreasonably not to accept responsibility for 
covering the costs P incurred in carrying out reinstatement works or covering its loss of rent 
over this period.  
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to P. But it ends what we  in attempting 
to informally resolve its dispute with Allianz  can do for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman