DRN-4149794
The complaint
Mr B has complained about ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED (trading as Be 
Wiser). He isnt happy about the telematics box it provided as part of his motor insurance 
policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to ATLANTA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B had various problems with the data recorded on his telematics box (black box) so he 
complained to ATLANTA about this. It accepted that there were various incorrect entries 
recorded by his black box and removed them from his records. But as he remained unhappy 
he complained to this Service about this.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She made it clear that 
she was only looking at the actions of ATLANTA and the failings in relation to the black box it 
was responsible for. She suggested that it remedied the problems with the black box and 
paid £150 in compensation for the clear stress and inconvenience caused.
Mr B accepted the position outlined while ATLANTA hasnt responded. So the matter has 
been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear there were various failings in relation to the speed and areas recorded on the black 
box fitted to Mr Bs car. ATLANTA accepted this and removed a number of entries from Mr 
Bs records, so the only thing left to decide is the redress. 
Having considered the circumstances surrounding this case I agree that £150 compensation 
feels fair for the various difficulties Mr B faced. I say this as he had to chase ATLANTA a 
number of times about the entries and was clearly worried and concerned about the black 
box and how it was working and how it would affect him in the future. And I note he had 
further difficulties after this as well. So, I feel £150 compensation here feels fair. 
I understand that Mr B has decided not to reinsure with his insurance provider given the 
various difficulties he has faced here which is understandable. If Mr B has any concerns 
about the impact any of this had on his premium then he will have to advance this separately 
with his insurer as ATLANTA arent responsible for this. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require ATLANTA 
1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED to pay Mr B £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman