DRN-3696114
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Charter 
Savings Bank (CSB) has not correctly followed the assurances they made to them over the 
phone.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S opened a joint account with CSB in June 2019. Mr and Mrs S say it is an 
online account that requires a 95 day notice to make future withdrawals to a nominated 
account. They say the terms of the account suggest there are no restrictions on the setting 
up of future transactions providing CSB had at least 95 days notice. And that any pending 
transaction could be cancelled given one working days notice before the payment date.
Mr S say he was regularly transferring money in and out of his joint account with CSB, from 
his nominated bank account, which was at the time a sole current account in his name.
To simplify their financial arrangements he wanted to change his registered nominated 
account with CSB. But he also wanted clarity on what would happen to any pending 
transactions he had in place. So, he contacted them about it as he says the terms of the 
account werent clear on what would happen. He says CSB confirmed that any pending 
transactions that were in place before the nominated account is changed would still be 
actioned at the date and times requested. Mr S say it was important to him that they 
continue as they were set up. Mr S also says he requested further assurances from CSB 
about the pending transactions and he continued to be told that the pending transactions will 
process as originally requested.
Mr S says he then proceeded to change his registered nominated account in February 2021.
Following the change Mr S says his upcoming withdrawals started to get rejected when the 
payment was due. Mr S says the reason given was that the transaction referred to an 
account that was not the current nominated account and that CSB could only make a 
transaction to the currently registered nominated account. As a result, Mr S says around 
thirty transactions from around February 2021 until September 2021 would be rejected. 
Mr and Mrs S, unhappy with what had happened, complained to CSB. CSB acknowledged 
they had made a mistake and provided Mr S with incorrect information, and so apologised to 
him. They explained that future transactions can only be set up online using the nominated 
bank account details registered at that time. They say that should these details change 
during the notice period, the pending transaction will not be updated automatically. Instead, 
they said that the transaction will be rejected if it has not already been deleted and replaced 
with another one to ensure funds are sent to the new nominated bank account.
Mr S says he was not told this at the time. He also says that CSB terms wasnt clear about 
his circumstances and what he was trying to achieve. 
CSB went on to tell Mr S that in instances where he was unable to change the transaction 
himself i.e. if the due date falls within their 95 day notice period, then he would need to 
contact them so they can manually process it. But that all upcoming transactions will need to 
be to the new registered nominated account.
CSB, as a gesture of goodwill, eventually processed all of the transactions that were set up, 
regardless of whether or not they were due within 95 days. Mr S says they all went to the 
wrong account and wanted them to go to the previous nominated account, which is what he 
was originally told would happen.
Unhappy with their response, Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to our service. During 
our investigation, CSB explained that they believe they hadnt provided Mr S with incorrect 
information. They say that the information they provided Mr S over the phone in various 
conversations was correct at the time, as the nominated account hadnt been changed then. 
They also say they missed an opportunity to explain to Mr S what would happen to the 
pending transactions once the nominated account was changed.
Our investigator found that CSB didnt need to do anything further. She found that CSB 
terms were clear in explaining withdrawals can only be send to the nominated account. And 
that they apologised and amended the upcoming transactions for Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view. And so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
CSB general savings conditions explain that a registered nominated account must be used 
for deposits, withdrawals and receipt of interest payments. It also explains the steps that a 
customer needs to take to change their nominated account. 
They also say that theyll send their customer an email or letter telling them when the new 
nominated account is ready for use. And it says that theyll only make payments to the 
nominated account (or another account held with them) and that payments to any other bank 
or other account are not permitted.
Before an application to change the nominated account is made, I accept the terms arent 
specific on what would happen to pending transactions once it is updated or changed. So I 
can see why Mr S felt the need to contact CSB to clarify what would happen and whether 
pending transactions would process to the new active nominated account or to the previous 
nominated account.
CSB also say that upon changing a nominated account online, Mr S would have been 
presented with a screen which displayed the wording:
You can continue to make any transactions using your existing details, however youll need 
to cancel any withdrawals that will occur after your Nominated Account details have 
changed. You can request a new withdrawal once youve received confirmation that your 
new Nominated Account details are available.
CSB believe their terms are clear and suggest any withdrawals made, must be made to the 
active nominated bank account held on their records. While they may believe so, ultimately, 
in this instance, CSB say they had made a mistake over the phone in not clearly explaining to Mr S what would happen to pending transactions to the nominated account, once it is 
changed. Mr S then relied on what he was told and proceeded with changing the nominated 
account. 
Pending transactions then hadnt processed as he expected and when he contacted CSB 
about it, they acknowledged they had made a mistake and tried to put things right for Mr and 
Mrs S.
CSB processed all the transactions that were set up, regardless of whether they fell within 
the 95 days notice period, but did so to the new nominated account. Mr S believes all 
transactions should have been processed and sent to the previous nominated account which 
was used when he originally set up the transactions.
It isnt in dispute that CSB had made a mistake. So what I have considered is whether CSB 
has now done enough to put things right and the impact this instance has had on its 
customer.
CSB processed all the transactions that were set up, regardless of whether they fell within 
the 95 days notice period, but did so to the new nominated account. Im satisfied that CSB 
has done enough in this instance. They accepted they had made a mistake, apologised for 
it, and attempted to rectify it within a reasonable amount of time. Mr S believes all 
transactions should have been processed and sent to the previous nominated account which 
was used when he originally set up the transactions. However, from the terms above and 
from what CSB has now told Mr and Mrs S, they would not be able to process the 
transactions to any account other than the active nominated account or to another account 
held with them. So I cant say that they are at fault for not processing the transactions to the 
previous nominated account. 
Mr S believes that CSB hadnt followed their terms correctly and later rebuffed them. He 
says this as he believes CSB has recognised that their terms and conditions have omissions 
and ambiguities regarding circumstances arising in the change nominated account process. 
And so he contacted CSB about it to clarify their terms and he believes they were 
consequently established. I dont think CSB has changed the terms and conditions of their 
account in this instance. CSB has given incorrect information to Mr S, but I dont think as a 
result of that mistake, the terms had changed to the account or had been established.
In this instance, I dont think CSB need to do anything further. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs S, but I hope theyll understand the reasons for my decision 
and theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman