DRN-3425301
The complaint
Mr D1 and Ms S are administrators in the estate of Miss D. They complain about how   
Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) dealt with a claim against Miss Ds travel insurance 
policy. 
Mr D2, is assisting Mr D1 and Ms S in bringing the complaint. Reference to URV includes its 
agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss D had a 13 month travel insurance policy which started on 
4 November 2019. Unfortunately, Miss D passed away on 12 January 2020, following an 
accident whilst on a trip. 
Mr D1 made a claim against Miss Ds travel policy. URV settled the claim in part. It paid 
repatriation costs, death benefit and an ex gratia payment of £500 in relation to personal 
possessions. URV didnt pay the parts of the claim relating to funeral expenses in the 
UK, solicitors costs in obtaining letters of administration or the remainder of the claim for 
personal possessions. Mr D1 and Ms S pursued their complaint. They want UKI to settle 
their claim and to pay compensation. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that URV had 
acted unfairly. The investigator said that URV acted fairly and in accordance with the 
terms of the policy when it paid repatriation costs, death benefit and a goodwill payment 
in relation to the personal possessions claim. She said that the policy doesnt cover the 
other elements of the claim. 
Mr D2 responded on behalf of Mr D1 and Ms S. He limited his objection to the 
investigators view in relation to the issue of the UK funeral expenses. Mr D2 said that 
the UK funeral expenses are covered under the policy up to a maximum of £2,000. 
URV declined to settle the complaint on payment of a further £2,000. Mr D2 asked that 
an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to note the circumstances leading to the claim and send my condolences to 
Miss Ds family. 
The remaining area in dispute is the claim for UK funeral costs, so I focus on that. 
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows: 
 
If you need emergency medical attention outside the UK (Policy B Section 1)
We will pay: If:
[] []
up to a maximum cost of £2,000 (sic) your death outside your home 
country for your burial or cremation, 
including the cost of returning your 
ashes home
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding this  
complaint because I dont think that URV acted unfairly. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. Mr D2 says that one of the reasons for buying a 
policy is to cover consequential losses. But its not the case that an insurer 
necessarily covers all consequential losses of an insured event. The onus is on the 
consumer to show that the claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within 
the policy. 
On balance, I think URV didnt act unfairly when it said that the policy doesnt cover 
the costs of a funeral in the UK. The policy provides cover for funeral expenses 
following a death outside the home country. Im satisfied that the reference to the 
cost of returning ashes indicates that it covers funeral costs incurred abroad, not in 
the home country. So, I dont think that URV acted unfairly when it declined this part 
of the claim.
I note Mr D2s contention that if Miss Ds funeral had taken place abroad, the costs 
may well have been higher, but I dont think that alters the outcome here. Im 
considering the claim that was actually made, not a claim that might have been made 
in different circumstances. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of    
Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 Louise Povey
Ombudsman