DRN-4438907
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked and closed his bank account. 
What happened
Mr H had an account with Nationwide.
In October 2022, Nationwide reviewed Mr Hs account. Whilst it completed the review 
Nationwide blocked Mr Hs account, which meant he wasnt able to use the account or his 
bank card. Following this Nationwide decided to close Mr Hs account immediately.
Mr H was unhappy about this. He had another account he could use but said at the time he 
was away from home, and not being able to use his account had been upsetting and 
inconvenient. 
Mr H complained to Nationwide. In response Nationwide said it had closed Mr Hs account in 
line with the terms and conditions. But it accepted they hadnt told Mr H about the block and 
review of his account quickly enough. It explained that it would normally send out an email to 
customers. But it hadnt let Mr H know until four days after it had blocked his account. 
Nationwide apologised and offered Mr H £25 compensation. Mr H didnt accept Nationwides 
offer and brought his complaint to our service where one of our adjudicators looked into it. 
The adjudicator looked at all the information and said that Nationwides service fell short by 
not letting Mr H know about the block and review of his account. But he said Nationwides 
offer was fair. Mr H disagreed. Mr H said that hed banked with Nationwide for many years 
and feels as though he has been treated like a second class citizen. So, he wants 
Nationwide to pay him more compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to an ombudsman to review. 
In September 2023, an ombudsman issued a provisional decision. In summary he said that:
Based on the information he had he wasnt satisfied that Nationwide treated 
Mr H fairly when it closed his account immediately
He thought Mr H had been caused some real stress and upset because of the matter 
and said that Nationwide should pay Mr H £200 compensation 
Mr H didnt respond. Nationwide did and provided more information about why it had closed 
Mr Hs account.  It said it had written to Mr H on 26 October 2022, to let him know it had 
closed his account. It also offered £100 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset its 
poor communication had caused Mr H. 
One of our investigators got in touch with Mr H to let him know what Nationwide had said. 
Mr H said he didnt accept Nationwides offer and said hed never been offered any 
compensation.
As both parties are aware a provisional decision was previously issued by one of my 
ombudsman colleagues. However, the case has now been passed to me to decide. And 
having reviewed all of the evidence I came to a different conclusion, to my colleague. I set 
this out in my provisional decision, in which I said the following
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Nationwide has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. But I 
want to assure Mr H that I have considered everything that he and Nationwide have 
submitted as part of this complaint. 
Nationwide have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review on a customer and/or 
the activity on an account. The terms of the account also permit Nationwide to block an 
account. This means Nationwide is entitled to block and review an account at any time.
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account made things quite difficult for 
Mr H.  Hes said he was away from home at the time so, I can understand why he found not 
being able to access his account stressful and upsetting. But as Ive explained, banks have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that Nationwide was complying with its obligations when it blocked 
Mr Hs account. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr H inconvenience, I cant say Nationwide  
treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. Ive also kept in mind that Mr H had access 
to another account, which I think wouldve minimised the impact of the block.
Whilst Im satisfied that Nationwide were entitled to block and review Mr Hs account. Im not 
satisfied that they treated him fairly during the review process. I say this because Nationwide 
didnt make Mr H aware that his account was under review and that he couldnt use it until 
four days after it had blocked the account. Nationwide has explained that it usually lets its 
customers know when it reviews accounts, and it has accepted it didnt let Mr H know quickly 
enough. It has apologised and now offered Mr H £100 compensation for any trouble and 
upset this caused him.  Mr H says this isnt enough.
There isnt a set formula that we use to calculate awards for particular mistakes or poor 
service. Its my role to consider what impact Nationwides actions have had on Mr H and 
decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation would be appropriate in 
the circumstances. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its fair to say Nationwides service fell short when it 
reviewed and blocked Mr Hs account. The bank didnt communicate quickly with 
Mr H, so he was left in the dark about what was happening with his account. I can appreciate 
this wouldve been frustrating and upsetting for Mr H.  And I agree some compensation is 
appropriate for this. Nationwide has offered to pay Mr H £100 compensation. Mr H says this 
isnt enough. But having looked at all the circumstances of this complaint, I havent found 
grounds to increase the level of compensation. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is a fair 
amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr H was caused by 
Nationwide not telling him that his account was being reviewed as soon as it should have 
done. So, I wont be directing Nationwide to pay any more to resolve this aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint.    
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Hs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr H decided to stop banking with Nationwide, he 
wouldnt have to explain why. Nationwide have relied on the terms and conditions when 
closing Mr Hs account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account immediately 
and by providing two months notice. In this case Nationwide closed Mr Hs account without 
notice. Based on the evidence available to me, in my view that was reasonable. So, it was 
entitled to close the account as it has already done. And Im satisfied that it did so in line with 
the account terms and relevant regulations. So, Im not persuaded Nationwide treated Mr H 
unfairly when they closed his account immediately.
After I issued my provisional decision both parties were invited to provide further evidence or 
submissions. Nationwide said it didnt have anything further to add. Mr H didnt respond.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should be partly upheld 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of 
this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. To put 
things right Nationwide Building Society should:
Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused him
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman