DRN-2846716
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined a claim under her 
commercial insurance policy.
A representative acted on Mrs Ls behalf throughout this complaint. However, for ease, I will 
refer to Mrs L because she is the policyholder.
What happened
Mrs L made a claim under her commercial insurance policy because water was leaking 
through a lightwell that formed part of a commercial property that she owned. AXA 
investigated the claim and declined it because it said the design of the pavement outside the 
property made the lightwell more susceptible to greater wear and tear. AXA said issues with 
the design of the property were specifically excluded under the terms of the policy.
When Mrs L complained to AXA, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mrs L 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said AXA had 
appropriately assessed the claim and that it was reasonable to decline it.
As Mrs L didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The claim was declined because of an exclusion for damage caused by inherent fault or 
defect, undiscovered defect, gradual deterioration, frost, change in water table level, faulty or 
defective design or materials and wear and tear. So, Ive considered whether that was 
reasonable. 
AXA considered a range of evidence, including photos and invoices provided by Mrs Ls 
tenant and information the tenant provided about previously replacing the lightwell seals. 
AXA considered the claim and told Mrs L:
the light well  design protruding up from the pavement is leaving it susceptible to greater 
wear and tear especially if the buildings occupants and neighbouring shopkeepers are 
regularly depositing stock deliveries on and around it. A light well should not need regular 
resealing and the fact youve had to do this is indicative of a design issue. It may be that 
theres nothing intrinsically wrong with the design and rather that its just not best suited to 
this location if it can't be screened off from heavy pedestrian footfall and being used as an off 
ramp for deliveries. This has probably greatly reduced the life span of its seals due to an 
accelerated wear and tear on them.
Im aware that Mrs Ls tenant said AXA didnt visit the property to view the damage, the 
property didnt receive lots of deliveries as it was an office rather than a shop and that the 
seals were replaced on the fire escape, which was situated within the lightwell, rather than 
the lightwell itself.
Although an insurer will often visit to assess the damage, it isnt required to do so. Given the 
information that AXA had access to, I think it was reasonable for it to make its decision 
based on that. This included information provided by Mrs Ls builder that said:
I think the problem has arisen from the pavement lights being raised above ground level 
and that delivery and collection guys using sack barrows etc., bumping up and down the 
pavement lights have disjointed the bond between pavement and lights and footpath thus 
allowing water to penetrate through.
I also asked AXA to explain whether it had differentiated between the fire escape and the 
lightwell. It confirmed it had and that it was aware the repairs related to the opening section, 
but that it assessed such repairs to be indicative of an ongoing problem. 
AXA said it hadnt seen evidence to show the damage was the result of a one-off incident 
and Mrs Ls builder hadnt suggested that was the cause. AXA also said that when Mrs L first 
submitted the claim, she was asked When did you first discover the leak?. Mrs L replied:
We have had on-going problems for about a year from this area and did repairs to prevent 
further leaking. These repairs did not solve the problem long term.
Im aware that the comment from Mrs L was likely to include the issues with the fire escape, 
but I think it was reasonable for AXA to take this, as well as the other information it 
considered, into account as part of making a decision on the claim. Im also aware that Mrs L 
has said the damage may have been a result of an annual event that took place in the local 
area. Ive thought about this, but Im not persuaded that this is a more likely explanation for 
the cause of the damage, given the other evidence available.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim on 
the basis of the damage being the result of a design issue, rather than a one-off insured 
event. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman