DRN-2926468
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was misled by a dealership before he took a car on hire purchase 
from Oodle Financial Services Limited.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr E was looking for a used car and approached a dealership, which Ill 
call H. He found a suitable car and agreed a price. He was to pay for the car with a hire 
purchase agreement arranged by H and provided by Oodle.
Mr E says that he was told the cars mileage was 99,000, but he noticed on the test drive 
that it was 104,000. He says too that he was not provided with the cars V5C and that it was 
not taxed.
Mr E also says that he was assured by H that he would be able to obtain a V5C document 
and get the car taxed and insured. He drove it home and left it on the street near his house. 
It was however impounded because it was not taxed. And, because he did not have the 
necessary documentation showing him as the keeper, he was unable to get it released. He 
stopped paying the instalments due under the hire purchase agreement, which fell into 
default. Several weeks later Oodle was able to recover the car.
Mr E thought that the dealership  and, by extension, Oodle  was responsible for the 
difficulties he had faced. He complained to this service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Es complaint. He did not believe that Mr E was 
misled in the way he claimed but did think that Oodle could have acted sooner to have the 
car released. He recommended that it pay any charges incurred after the car had been 
impounded for a week  Mr E should bear the initial towing costs and charges for the first 
week.
Oodle agreed to the investigators recommendations but Mr E did not. He asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. In that decision I noted that a supplier of goods 
is not generally liable for an inaccurate description which the buyer or hirer ought to have 
known about. Mr E in fact knew that the mileage on the invoice did not exactly match that 
recorded by the cars odometer, so Oodle could not be held responsible for the discrepancy. 
I said too that it thought Mr E must have known that he needed to arrange for the car to be 
taxed. He must also have known too that he had not arranged for that to happen and that 
there was, therefore, a risk that the authorities might take enforcement action. He could have 
decided to delay taking delivery of the car until he had made the necessary arrangements. 
In conclusion, therefore, I felt that the investigators recommendation was more generous 
than was necessary. Since Oodle had accepted that recommendation, it was therefore up to 
Mr E to decide whether, on reflection, he wanted to accept its offer of settlement.
Mr E did not however accept my provisional conclusions or Oodles offer. He indicated that 
he would be providing further evidence from those who were present when he took delivery 
of the car. He has not however done so, although he has been given additional time.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since I have been provided with no further evidence or arguments, I do not believe there is 
any good reason to reach a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional decision. 
I will simply leave it to Mr E to decide whether he wants to accept Oodles offer of settlement 
 assuming of course it is still open for acceptance. I am not however making any formal 
award in Mr Es favour.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Oodle Financial Services Limited to do anything 
further to resolve Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman