DRN-4177037
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax blocked his card without 
informing him.
What happened
Mr M says he tried to pay for a hotel stay using his Halifax credit card, but the transaction 
was declined. He says his card was blocked without them informing him, which caused him 
embarrassment, and this meant he had to use his debit card for the transaction. He says 
Halifax told him they had sent a text to his UK mobile number but not his overseas mobile 
number. Mr M says that he uses his overseas mobile mainly. He says that upon checking his 
UK mobile, he had no text from Halifax, but he did have a voicemail informing him to contact 
Halifaxs fraud department. Mr M made a complaint to Halifax.
Halifax did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said as part of their security measures they 
may need to carry out additional security checks on transactions to ensure it was him using 
his card. They said they attempted to reach him on 29 January 2023 via a text message and 
a telephone call, but as they were unable to reach him a block was placed on his account, 
which is why the transaction was declined on 3 February 2023. Halifax said at present their 
systems will only accept a UK mobile phone number to be added to the mobile number 
category as they are only able to send a text message to a UK registered mobile number. Mr 
M brought his complaint to our service. He says Halifax did not act in line with The Payment 
Services Regulations 2017.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said the terms and conditions explain 
Halifax may suspend the use of the card. He said the terms dont state how Halifax will try to 
contact Mr M. Our investigator said that Halifaxs records show that they called Mr M on 29 
January 2023, but they were unable to speak to him, so they later left a voicemail. He said 
as Mr M didnt respond to Halifaxs calls and text message the block remained on the 
account. He said Halifax dont write letters to advise of fraud blocks as the time taken to 
receive a letter would make this impractical. He said although Mr M says he didnt receive a 
text from Halifax, the evidence indicates this was sent. Our investigator said that although 
the voicemail didnt inform Mr M his account had been blocked, the message asked him to 
contact Halifaxs fraud department, who wouldve made him aware of this. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he sent us a decision from a different ombudsman service which he feels this 
supports that Halifax have made an error and they had not acted in line with the relevant 
payment regulations. Mr M also quoted different sections of The Payment Services 
Regulations 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ms complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Mr M has complained that Halifax has breached The Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
Ive taken The Payment Services Regulations 2017 into account when deciding this 
complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable. If Mr M wants a decision that Halifax has breached the Payment 
Services Regulations, then hed need to go to Court.
Id like to explain to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
security procedures should be and how many attempts to reach Mr M that they should make 
across any method available to them. We are also unable to ask them to change their 
systems to allow an overseas mobile number to be entered as the preferred contact number. 
It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power 
to instruct Halifax to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Mr M has provided us with a decision from a different ombudsman service. But here, I am 
only able to consider the merits of his complaint. This is because the circumstances of the 
other complaint may be different to Mr Ms complaint (even if they may appear to Mr M to be 
similar). Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about 
financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case 
by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings 
about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Ive looked at The Payment Services Regulations 2017 Section 71.3 and 71.4 that Mr M has 
highlighted to us which shows the following:
(3) The payment service provider must, in the manner agreed between the payment service 
provider and the payer and before carrying out any measures to stop the use of the payment 
instrument
(a)inform the payer that it intends to stop the use of the payment instrument; and
(b)give its reasons for doing so.
(4) Where the payment service provider is unable to inform the payer in accordance with 
paragraph (3) before carrying out any measures to stop the use of the payment instrument, it 
must do so immediately after.
So 71.3 is regarding what was agreed by the payment service provider (Halifax) and Mr M. 
This would be the terms and conditions of the account, which Im satisfied that Mr M would 
have needed to agree to when opening his account with Halifax. 71.4 shows if they are 
unable to inform Mr M of any measures to stop the use of his card they must do so 
immediately afterwards. 
But there is also a 71.5 which Im satisfied is relevant here: 
(5) Paragraphs (3) and (4) do not apply where provision of the information in accordance 
with paragraph (3) would compromise reasonable security measures or is otherwise 
unlawful.
As Halifax blocked Mr Ms card as they needed to complete additional security checks then Im persuaded that 71.3 and 71.4 of The Payment Services Regulations 2017 wouldnt apply 
here as this could compromise reasonable security measures as they needed to speak to Mr 
M regarding additional security and thats why the block was placed on his account for 
security measures in the first place when he didnt respond to the voicemail or text they sent 
him. 
Ive also looked at the agreement Halifax and Mr M had as this was set out in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Section B2.5 of the terms and conditions has a section which is 
titled Can we stop you using your card or refuse to authorise a transaction?. It shows that 
We may cancel or suspend use of the card, refuse to replace or reissue a card, or refuse to 
authorise a transaction or type of transaction (even if your balance is under your credit limit) 
and it gives a list of possible reasons why they may do this. 
Im satisfied that the reason Halifax gave for the block is one of these reasons as they 
considered it necessary to protect the security of his account/card. As such, the terms also 
show that In any of the above situations we may not always be able to give advance notice 
of the cancellation, suspension or refusal. If we suspend use of a card for one of these 
reasons, we will let you use it again once we are satisfied the reason no longer applies. The 
terms also show that For any other transaction, you will usually find out we have refused it 
because the retailer will ask you to pay by another method or the ATM will not dispense 
cash. If this happens and you call us, we will tell you why we have refused the transaction 
unless the law prevents us. But Halifax have confirmed that Mr M did not call them.
Halifax attempted to contact Mr M prior to him attempting to make the card payment on 3 
February 2023 as part of additional security measures. I can see from Halifaxs internal 
systems that they tried to call him on 29 January 2023, but they were unsuccessful, so they 
sent a text message to Mr Ms registered mobile phone. I know Mr M is adamant he didnt 
receive this message, but Im satisfied that Halifax sent the message as their system shows 
it was sent successfully. So if Mr M did not receive this message I cant hold Halifax 
responsible for any network or phone provider issues which resulted in Mr M not receiving 
this message as this would be out of their control. 
I can see from Halifaxs system that they left Mr M a voicemail at 10:29am on 29 January 
2023 to contact their fraud department. So Halifax made three attempts to contact Mr M via 
two phone calls and a text message to his registered mobile number, which Im satisfied this 
was reasonable for them to do. So it follows I dont require Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman