DRN-2279309
The complaint
Mr R has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Capital Asset Management Ltd
(CAM) to transfer his personal pensions to a SIPP and invest in high risk shares. He also 
says CAM failed to provide ongoing advice which hes been charged for.  
  
What happened
 CAM said that Mr Rs complaints had been made too late and we couldnt consider them. 
He was complaining about advice given in 2011 and he hadnt complained until the 
beginning of 2019. 
Our investigator initially said Mr R hadnt complained in time. He later reconsidered. He said 
the complaint about the advice had been made too late but Mr R could still complain about 
the lack of annual reviews during the six year period before Mr R had complained. Both Mr R 
and CAM asked for an ombudsmans review. So the complaint was referred to one of my 
ombudsmen colleagues to decide if we could consider Mr Rs complaints. 
My colleague issued his jurisdiction decision on 11 September 2020. He considered both 
aspects of Mr Rs complaint separately. For the reasons he set out he concluded the 
complaint about the 2011 advice had been made too late  more than six years after the 
advice had been given and more than three years from when Mr R became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint. 
But he said Mr R could complain about some of the reviews that he should have had  we 
could consider the complaint about reviews scheduled to take place after January 2013 
(within the six years before Mr R had complained).
The investigator considered that complaint. He issued his view on 9 October 2020. His 
summary of the background included the following:
CAMs suitability report dated 29 August 2011 said that CAM had agreed to provide 
six monthly review meetings. And that initial commission of 4% and annual fund-
based commission of 1% would be paid (although there was separate evidence that 
the initial payment was £1,000)
Mr R transferred a total of £27,149.52 from his three existing pensions (all of his 
pension savings) into a SIPP in August and September 2011. He invested
£25,508.09 in ordinary shares of Gulf Keystone Petroleum (GKP). He appears to 
have paid £1.7068 per share.
The SIPP provider sent Mr R annual statements showing the plan value and 
transactions to the financial year end. The share price rose substantially at first, but 
then fell sharply from 2013. The plan had lost over half its value by April 2014, over 
80% of its value by April 2015, and almost all its value by April 2016.
No review meetings were held at any time. Both parties agree there was no further 
contact between them after the initial advice. 
Sometime between April 2016 and April 2017, Mr R sold over half his remaining 
shares, realising £101.52, which was used to fund ongoing charges. Ongoing 
commission payments continued to April 2017. And between April 2018 and April 
2019, Mr R sold all his remaining shares. £96.93 was realised, most of which was 
used to fund ongoing charges.
The investigators conclusions were, in summary:
Wed received complaints from other CAM clients who invested their pensions in 
GKP and whod said that CAM recommended or promoted the shares. So it seemed 
likely that had happened. 
Mr R does work in financial services. But there was nothing to suggest he had 
experience of investing in shares or any significant investment experience or 
knowledge. It seemed he was reliant on CAMs adviser and he probably wouldnt 
have invested in the shares otherwise. And hed have been similarly inclined to rely 
on the adviser subsequently. If hed been an experienced investor who just wanted 
advice on the SIPP wrapper and not about the investment, it was unlikely hed have 
agreed to pay 1% a year for ongoing advice. 
The suitability report said six monthly reviews should be held. CAM had said it 
couldnt provide reviews as Mr R had moved away shortly after the advice had been 
given. But that didnt appear to be the case. The SIPP statements had continued to 
be sent to the same address. Mr R had said (and provided evidence in support) that 
hed sold the property in November 2016. CAM could have emailed him at work up to 
February 2014.
It was unclear what qualifications CAMs adviser had to advise on securities. 
In any event, it would almost inevitably be unsuitable to advise (or continue to advise) 
a retail investor to invest his entire pension in the shares of one company (other than 
an investment trust or OEIC). Diversifying assets to spread risk is generally accepted 
to be good practice. The particular company was high risk. It mainly operated in 
northern Iraq, a highly unstable region.
CAM could and should have held review meetings with Mr R. That was the 
agreement, and he was paying for those meetings. If the meetings after January 
2013 had taken place, CAM should have advised Mr R to sell the shares. The SIPP, 
invested almost entirely in GKP shares, was fundamentally unsuitable.
The investigator went on to consider mitigation. He explained that we expect consumers to 
take reasonable steps to mitigate their losses. CAM had said Mr R could have sold the 
shares himself. They were listed and, it seemed, liquid throughout. And Mr R had online 
access to his plan. The investigator said it wasnt clear why Mr R had watched his 
investment dwindle away to nothing before doing anything about it. Especially as Mr R had 
said he was a low risk investor with no capacity for loss whod been reassured that his 
capital wasnt at risk. Even if that wasnt exactly the position, it didnt seem Mr R would have 
found tolerable the losses suffered by April 2014. And, as it was agreed that there was no 
further contact between Mr R and the adviser after the initial advice, it wasnt the case that 
Mr R had been reassured about the situation. 
The investigator noted what the ombudsman had said about the complaint about the initial 
advice having been made too late and that hed have expected Mr R to have contacted CAM 
in 2014 and 2015 when the value of the SIPP made it clear that any assurances hadnt 
been kept. The investigator said, if Mr R should have known he had cause for complaint in 
2014 when hed suffered a 50% loss, it followed that he should have sold the shares around 
that time too. 
The investigator set out how CAM should redress Mr R, taking into account that some 
responsibility rested with Mr R. Mr R accepted the investigators view. Ive seen that his representative discussed the 
investigators view with Mr R and then forwarded it to Mr R, pointing out the approach taken 
as to compensation and the dates to be used in calculating redress and asking Mr R to say if 
he felt anything had been overlooked or the outcome was unfair in any way. 
CAM didnt accept the investigators view. It said a lot of information it had provided hadnt 
been taken into account. It asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
As Ive set out above, CAM said that Mr Rs complaints had been made too late. Although 
my colleague issued a jurisdiction decision were required to keep jurisdiction under review 
until a final decision is issued. Ive done that. I agree with my colleague that, although Mr Rs 
complaint about the initial advice (given in 2011) has been made too late, his complaint 
about the lack of reviews hasnt. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  CAM said it didnt accept the investigators views and that information CAM had provided 
hadnt been taken into account. But CAM didnt specify what information that was. 
Ive reviewed CAMs submissions about the merits of the complaint. But I havent seen 
anything which makes me think that what the investigator said about why Mr Rs complaint 
should be (in part) upheld was wrong. 
Some of what CAM has said is about the time bar issue. CAM has also referred to how 
Mr Rs purchase of the GKP shares came about. And to what the suitability report said. CAM 
says it gave no assurances about the shares and explained the risks but Mr R wanted to go 
ahead, based on the returns his colleague had seen. 
The complaint Im considering isnt about any initial recommendation or the transfer to the 
SIPP. Its about CAMs failure to undertake the regular reviews that Mr R had been promised 
and was paying for. 
Regardless of how the share purchase came about, a review should have identified that 
investing all of Mr Rs pension fund in GKP shares was unsuitable for him. He didnt have 
the capacity for loss that could, and did, result. 
Suitable advice, had reviews been undertaken, would have been to disinvest the GKP 
shares and reinvest in a well-diversified portfolio that matched Mr Rs attitude to risk and 
took into account that he didnt have any real capacity for loss.  
 
Theres some dispute about Mr Rs attitude to risk. Hes said he was a low risk investor. But 
CAMs suitability report records that Mr R was a capital growth investor and sets out a 
definition. It says that such an investor is willing to accept high risk and chance of loss in 
order to achieve higher returns. And that significant losses over an extended period may 
prompt a shift to a less risky investment. 
Mr R apparently didnt query what CAM had said about his attitude to risk. But it isnt just for 
an adviser to proceed on the basis of the degree of risk an investor may say he is willing to 
accept. An adviser should ensure that the investor understands the sort of losses that can 
result (for example, a total loss of investment) and that the investor has sufficient capacity for 
loss. Here, as Ive said, I dont think Mr Rs circumstances were such that he had any 
capacity for loss.Like the investigator, I dont think Mr Rs financial services experience meant he was 
someone who was prepared to make his own decisions and who had the knowledge and 
experience to do that. In any event he was paying for advice from CAM and he was entitled 
to expect that CAM would give him the ongoing advice it had promised and for which Mr R 
was paying, and that such advice would be suitable for him. 
I dont think its sufficient, and in the absence of any attempts on CAMs part to contact Mr R 
to try to arrange a review, to say that Mr R should have contacted CAM himself. And it isnt 
the case, as CAM has suggested, that Mr Rs address changed soon after the advice was 
given  it seems Mr R remained at the same address for some years. And, as hes pointed 
out, CAM could have contacted him via email. 
But, in any event, the redress takes into account that there was some onus on Mr R himself 
to act. I think the redress proposed by the investigator was fair and reasonable. It recognises 
that Mr R could  and should  have taken steps to stem his losses.
Putting things right
  In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close as possible 
to
the position hed probably now be in if he had been given suitable ongoing advice. For the
purposes of calculating compensation, I consider it reasonable to assume that the shares 
wouldve been sold on 1 March 2013.
I think Mr R wouldve invested differently after selling the shares. It isnt possible to say
precisely what hed have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Rs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
I also consider that Mr R should have mitigated his position. For the purposes of calculating 
compensation, I consider it reasonable to assume he shouldve sold the GKP shares on 28 
May 2014, one month after his statement date, allowing time for him to obtain advice.
what should CAM do?
CAM should compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation 
is payable. 
CAM should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, it should be paid into Mr Rs pension plan, to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the compensation cant be paid into Mr Rs pension plan, CAM should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if hed have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
CAM should pay Mr R £200 for distress and inconvenience.
And provide details of the calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CAM considers its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, CAM should tell Mr R how 
much has been taken off and give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to 
(end
date)additional 
growth / 
interest
SIPP still existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index;
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds1 March
201328 May
2014same indices 
to date of 
calculation
actual value
This means the fund value of the SIPP on the end date, 28 May 2014.
fair value
This is what the fund value of the SIPP on 1 March 2013 would have been worth on 28 May
2014 had it grown in line with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, CAM should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
The fair value minus the actual value, being the loss on 28 May 2014, should then be 
adjusted to the date of calculation using the same indices to establish the current loss.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:Mr R wanted capital growth and could afford a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Rs risk profile properly assessed was in between, in the sense that 
he was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It doesnt mean 
that Mr R would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return he couldve obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest/growth is for being deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
My final decision
  I uphold the complaint. Capital Asset Management Ltd must redress Mr R as Ive set 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman