DRN-3902414
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited held him liable following a claim 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants this changed to non-fault or split liability and his No 
Claims Discount (NCD) restored. 
What happened
Mr C reversed into another car. He said the other car drove behind him after he had started 
moving. Admiral investigated the claim and said Mr C was at fault. Mr C was unhappy as he 
thought dashcam footage that Admiral had relied on didnt show the collision but what 
happened afterwards. He questioned the reliability of a witness who said Mr C was at fault. 
He thought she was looking away when the impact occurred. He said there was no evidence 
that Admiral had tried to challenge the other drivers account. 
Admiral said there had been delays in its response to Mr C and an error in its letter to him. It 
paid Mr C £150 compensation for this. But Mr C remained unhappy with the liability decision 
and the effect on his NCD. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had investigated the claim reasonably and considered the evidence before deciding to 
accept liability. He thought it was entitled to do this by the policys terms and conditions. He 
thought Admiral had reasonably compensated Mr C for issues in the handling of his claim. 
So he didnt think Admiral needed to do anything further. 
Mr C replied, questioning Admirals reliance on the evidence. He said Admiral hadnt 
challenged the other driver about the editing of the dashcam footage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised issues about the insurance industry and our service. But its not my role to 
consider these concerns as we are not the regulator. My role is to consider how Admiral has 
responded to Mr Cs complaints. And, in particular, whether Admirals liability decision was 
fair and reasonable. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr C the same as someone else in his position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr C to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr C has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably 
investigate a claim before making its decision on liability. 
Mr C thought there was a conflict of interest on Admirals part as both drivers were insured 
by Admiral. But this isnt unusual, and I can see that Admiral had two separate teams deal 
with the claims. I havent seen any evidence that it was biased against Mr C. 
The evidence that Admiral had to consider was the two drivers versions of events, answers 
provided by an independent witness to its questions, and dashcam footage provided by the 
other driver. An insurers liability decision is based on civil law as opposed to criminal law 
and the standard of proof is the balance of probability, what is more likely than not to have 
occurred.
The witness said the other driver had been stationary when the collision occurred. She 
thought Mr C was at fault. Mr C thought the witness had been looking away at the moment of 
impact. But I havent seen evidence to show that she didnt see the collision. 
Mr C thought it was concerning that the witness hadnt provided a full statement but simply 
answered Admirals questions. But I can see that Admiral has explained that her taped 
record would be admissible evidence in a court. So I cant say it was wrong for Admiral to 
rely upon this. 
Admiral said the dashcam footage showed the other drivers car to be stationary when the 
collision occurred. Mr C wanted the other driver to explain why the dashcam footage had 
been edited down and the sound removed. 
But Admiral explained that there was no onus on the driver to provide the footage. It was too 
late now to ask for a fuller version. And so it relied on what was provided. 
Mr C said the other driver had stopped behind him momentarily. But Admiral has explained 
that even this short time would count as being stationary. And Admiral thought the onus was 
on Mr C to take greater care as the reversing party. There was no dispute that Mr C had 
reversed into the other driver. And so it thought it would be unable to defend Mr C if the 
matter went to court. 
Mr C thought Admirals initial decision to settle the claim as split liability would be fairer. But 
the consequences for Mr C would still be a fault claim on his driving record and the loss of 
his NCD. In any case, Admiral hadnt any evidence to prove that the other driver had been at 
fault. So I cant say that it should have maintained this decision. 
So I think Admirals decision to hold Mr C at fault for the claim was in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions. And I think it made this decision fairly and reasonably after 
considering the evidence available and responding at length to Mr Cs challenges. So I cant 
say Admiral did anything wrong in this. 
Admiral has agreed that there were errors in its claim handling, and it paid Mr C £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset these caused him. I think thats fair and reasonable 
as this is in keeping with our published guidance. So I dont require Admiral to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman