DRN-3151225
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Towergate Financial (East) Limited in respect of 
transferring his benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) 
to a personal pension. He says transferring was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr S had an OPS from a previous employer which hed finished working for in 2005. His 
former employer sent Mr S an offer in relation to transferring his benefits away from the 
OPS. It said itd offer an additional payment, on top of the transfer value of his benefits, if he 
was interested in transferring. The offer included a response card for Mr S to complete to 
say he was either not interested in the offer, was interested but would seek his own advice at 
his own expense or would like to receive advice from a specific adviser (which has since 
become part of Towergate with it being responsible for complaints), with this advice paid for 
by the OPS scheme. Mr S said hed be interested in taking advice from Towergate.
Towergate completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr S circumstances and 
objectives. It noted Mr S was 41, in good health, married with three dependent children, he 
owned his own home and had an outstanding mortgage of approximately £44,000 with no 
other debts. Mr S was self employed but had only begun his business within the last couple 
of years so at present wasnt taking an income. It recorded that his household outgoings 
exceeded income by approximately £400 per month but Mr S was receiving help from family 
while he established his business. Mr S hoped to retire at age 60 and thought hed need a 
net income of £10,000 per year in retirement. Mr S was not a member of any other pension 
schemes.
Towergate also carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk. It did this by asking him 
to rank his retirement priorities by preference order and answer a series of questions where 
he had to select an answer from several options provided. His answers to these included;
The OPS made up a major proportion of his pension funding and should be protected 
as far as reasonably possible.
He had no need to maximise the lump sum available on retirement.
The spouse pension benefit under the OPS were most important to him and he 
wanted these to continue.
His dependents would receive significant sums upon his death and whilst a greater 
amount might be beneficial, it wasnt a priority.
He didnt think hed be able to afford to retire early if his benefits were reduced.
He didnt consider it appropriate to take more than the minimal amount of risk.
Mr S was also asked what he thought about the security of his OPS. He chose not to select 
any of the pre-written answers offered, explaining he felt unable to select one and preferred 
the option of transferring without having to specify if he had concerns.
Based on the information it gathered Towergate deemed Mr S attitude to risk to be 
balanced.
Towergate also instructed transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports. The purpose of which 
was to help in deciding whether a transfer from the DB scheme was appropriate. The reports 
explained the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr S DB scheme benefits was 
£40,150.82. It said that, at the time of the report, Mr S would be due a guaranteed pension of 
£6,348 per annum at retirement. But this amount was subject to revaluation so would 
increase by the time Mr S retired. The report also indicated the additional payment being 
offered by the scheme administrators was £42,097.18.
The TVAS also gave details of the critical yield (CY) - the growth rate required of a new 
pension to enable Mr S to purchase equivalent benefits to those due under the OPS at 
retirement. The reports explain that these were based on a normal scheme retirement age of 
65. It explained that if Mr S only invested the transfer value, using the additional payment for 
something else (as he was apparently able to as part of the offer by the scheme trustees), 
the CY would be 10% if taking a full pension or 9.1% if Mr S took tax free cash (TFC) at 
retirement and a reduced pension. If Mr S invested the transfer value and additional sum in a 
pension the CY would be 6.7% if taking a full pension or 5.7% if taking TFC at retirement 
and a reduced pension.
On 22 June 2007 Towergate sent Mr S a suitability report, outlining its recommendation. The 
report said Mr S objectives were to retire early with a potentially larger pension and greater 
amount of TFC than offered by the scheme and to increase the lump sum death benefits and 
spouses / dependents benefits that would be provided. These coincided with the ranking of 
retirement priorities Mr S completed when Towergate assessed his attitude to risk. It also 
said Mr S wished to transfer and take the additional sum offered by the scheme trustees as 
cash, even though this would be subject to tax which would reduce it to approximately 
£29,548, as he wanted to use this money to repay or reduce his mortgage.
The report talked about the guarantees provided by the OPS but made a point of highlighting 
several times that these guarantees were subject to the solvency of the scheme and the 
employer.
The report went on to discuss a traffic light system approach Towergate took. It said if the 
critical yield was below 6% itd usually advise people to transfer. If it was over 7.5% it 
generally wouldnt. If it was between these figures  which it said Mr S was as it used the 
6.7% figure from the TVAS  it would class this as amber and only recommend a transfer if 
individual objectives were important to the customer and outweighed the risk. It then 
explained it applied a similar system when looking at attitude to risk and had established Mr 
S was also an amber in this respect and had a risk profile rating of four on a scale of one to 
ten.
Towergate summarised that Mr S was an amber  amber combination and said in such a 
situation we would not recommend that you transfer away without you giving very serious 
consideration to all aspects of your retirement planning and only then with extreme caution. 
But it went on to say that based on Mr S answers to its questionnaire, his objectives were 
very important considerations for him. And as these factors may potentially be better for 
you by transferring out of the [OPS] Scheme you have told me that, for you, this outweighs 
the real risk that you might receive less income in your retirement and, on this basis you do 
wish to transfer away. Because of this Towergate went on to say, with this section in bold 
capital letters within the report;
We have discussed your situation fully and have agreed that you should transfer out of the 
[OPS] scheme and benefit from the additional payment which is being offered by [the ops].I have explained to you and you have understood and accepted the fact that you may end up 
being worse off at retirement if the underlying investment funds do not achieve the required 
critical yield. Strictly on this basis, I confirm it is my recommendation you transfer out of the 
[OPS] scheme.
But the report then said that Mr S had opted to take the additional payment offered by the 
scheme trustees as a cash payment and that this was against Towergates advice.
Finally, the report said Mr S had asked Towergate to recommend a suitable pension product 
and provider to transfer to. And it went on to detail that it recommended that Mr S transfer 
his benefits and invest them in a specific plan, saying if it had felt the recommended plan 
was not appropriate for your individual circumstances, we would not recommend the plan.
The suitability report included a declaration for Mr S to complete which included an 
acknowledgement that Towergate had advised him not to opt for the additional payment as 
cash. There was also a separate typed letter, which Mr S signed, acknowledging that taking 
the additional payment from the trustees as cash was against Towergates advice.
I understand Mr S DB scheme benefits were transferred to the provider Towergate 
recommended.
A number of years later Towergate contacted Mr S to say it was reviewing the advice it had 
provided in respect of DB transfers and asked if he wanted his pension to be included in its 
review. In July 2020 it wrote to him outlining the purpose of the review and asked for some 
comments from him based on its initial assessment of its records. Mr S answered and 
Towergate then completed its review.
It said there had been issues with its advice process. Specifically, while in the body of the 
suitability report it had been mentioned that Mr S was able to retire under his OPS scheme 
at age 60 with unreduced benefits, the majority of the other information provided had 
focused on what hed be entitled to at age 65 under the scheme. And as Mr S had been 
interested in retiring early this information was relevant. But Towergate said Mr S had been 
correctly advised not to transfer and had acted against this advice. So, it didnt think further 
highlighting this information wouldve resulted in Mr S acting differently. It also said that the 
product Mr S transferred to may not have been the most appropriate, as it had a set 
retirement date of 65 and Mr S was looking to retire at age 60. But it felt Mr S had been 
provided clear information about this by the pension provider for thirteen years, which meant 
he couldve made changes to the policy, if he felt it wasnt right for him.
Mr S asked our service to consider his complaint. He felt the advice hed been given wasnt 
suitable and his pension would not now be enough for him to retire at his target retirement 
age.
An investigator upheld the complaint and felt Towergate should pay Mr S compensation. He 
thought the suitability report was unclear but overall he wasnt persuaded Mr S was an 
insistent client  as Towergate had suggested. And he didnt think the transfer was in Mr S 
best interests.
Towergate did not initially respond to our Investigators opinion, so the complaint was 
referred to me to decide. Towergate has since acknowledged the opinion but feels the 
information it has already provided explains its position.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 explaining that I intended to uphold Mr S 
complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why.When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulations in place at the time of the advice said that Towergate needed to 
communicate with Mr S in a way which was clear, fair and not misleading. It needed to 
ensure that any personal recommendation was suitable for Mr S, taking into account what it 
knew and ought reasonably to have known about his circumstances. And, where giving 
advice in relation to a potential transfer from a DB scheme  as was the case here  it 
needed to start by assuming a transfer was not suitable and only consider it to be suitable if 
it could clearly demonstrate on the evidence from the time that it was in Mr S best interests.
What did Towergate advise?
Towergate said as part of its review of the sale that it advised Mr S not to transfer out of his 
OPS. And in the information it provided to our service it said that Mr S was told in no 
uncertain terms not to transfer and he knew he was acting against this advice. But I dont 
agree the advice was clear and I also dont agree that its advice was not to transfer.
The suitability report included the statement we would not recommend that you transfer 
away without you giving very serious consideration to all aspects of your retirement planning 
and only then with extreme caution. But that doesnt go as far as giving a recommendation 
not to transfer. It says Mr S shouldnt do so without considering his circumstances. But puts 
it on him to think about this. It does not say that Towergate advises against transferring or 
that it does not recommend a transfer from his OPS in any form. And in my view does not, 
as Towergate believes, make this clear in no uncertain terms.
There are statements later within the suitability report that say taking the additional payment 
offered by the OPS trustees as cash is against Towergates advice. And the declaration Mr S 
was required to sign acknowledged that Towergate had advised him not to opt for a cash 
payment. But not that it was advising against a transfer altogether.
There is also a section, that is in bold block capital letters, which says having discussed it 
with Mr S and considered his circumstances you should transfer out of the [OPS] scheme 
and I confirm it is my recommendation that you transfer out of the [OPS] scheme. This is at 
odds with what Towergate wrote about potentially not recommending a transfer and I think 
wouldve made it difficult for Mr S to understand clearly what Towergates advice and 
position was.
Im satisfied though that these latter statements  particularly the one beginning I confirm 
my recommendation is indicate Towergate was advising Mr S to transfer away from the 
OPS. And indeed there is a line, when Towergate said taking a cash payment would be 
against its advice, which indicates its advice was to take the transfer value with the full 
Additional Payment transferred into a pension as well.
I think this is supported by other information Ive seen. In its submissions Towergate 
provided notes recorded by the adviser at the point of sale. The notes are essentially a 
rationale for the advice and include several questions for the adviser to answer. One of 
these says, Are you going to recommend that the client transfers? to which the adviser 
circled Yes. There is then a further question If no, are they an Insistent Client which is 
marked as N/A. There is then later a section for the adviser to explain the advice to transfer 
which says We recommend transfer because 2 of the top 3 priorities will potentially be 
better on transfer. Please state priorities which look favourable if transfer out. The adviser 
wrote retiring early and lump sum death benefits. All of this, to me, is clear that 
Towergates adviser was recommending a transfer as they believed it was in Mr S interests.So overall, I dont think the communication from Towergate about its advice was particularly 
clear. Which I think wouldve made it difficult for Mr S to understand what this truly was. But 
Im satisfied, contrary to what Towergate has now said, it did in fact recommend that Mr S 
transfer his benefits away from his OPS, and invest the CETV and additional payment into a 
new pension plan. Mr S complaint is that the advice he was provided was unsuitable. So, 
firstly I have to look at whether that advice was appropriate.
The suitability report makes reference to Towergate having conversations with Mr S and him 
indicating he wished to transfer. And the report implied this was a large part of the reason for 
its advice. But Towergates role wasnt simply to facilitate something that Mr S mightve 
thought he wanted. It was to objectively consider all of the relevant information and provide 
clear, reasoned and suitable financial advice about what was in his best interests so he 
could make an informed decision. Mr S expressing a preference isnt, in my view, a 
reasonable justification alone for recommending the transfer. So, Ive had to look at whether 
there was other justification for the recommendation.
Financial viability
The suitability report contains very few financial details of what Mr S would receive under his 
existing scheme and what he could receive under the recommended pension, in order for 
him to compare these and make an informed decision. Towergate has said that a lot of this 
information was included in the TVAS and quotations from the new pension provider. But 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S was an experienced investor  something that 
Towergate was required to take account of  that wouldve given him a firm understanding of 
these figures. And a requirement of Towergate was to ensure Mr S understood the analysis. 
I think it is difficult to say, given that the suitability report failed to draw these figures together 
and provide any form of comparison or analysis to go along with the advice detailed, that 
Towergate did this.
The only figures that were included were an estimate of the retirement income available 
under the existing scheme at age 65 (£11,942 per annum) and the critical yield. The critical 
yield figure used by Towergate was 6.7% (which was based on transferring and investing the 
CETV and additional payment and not taking TFC).
Towergate acknowledged, when conducting its review of the advice it provided, that Mr S 
expressed a preference to retire at age 60. And his OPS pension allowed for retirement at 
that age with no reduction to the retirement benefits available. Towergate has said it doesnt 
think further elaboration on this wouldve impacted Mr S decision. And Ill come back to 
whether I agree with this later. But what I do think this means is that the figures used in the 
suitability report werent actually the most appropriate ones.
As Mr S preference was retiring at age 60, the more appropriate estimated income figure 
wouldve been what hed have received at that age, rather than at 65. And the more 
appropriate critical yield to use wouldve been for retiring at age 60  particularly given that 
he could take full benefits from the ceding scheme at that age. The TVAS says that, for 
investing the CETV and additional payment, and taking no TFC, the CY for retirement at age 
60 was 8.3%. And, in the circumstances, I think as a minimum that figure shouldve been 
used.
And I think there is an argument, given what Towergate has said about Mr S preferences for 
the additional payment, that the CY figure used should in fact have been based on only 
investing the CETV. But as Ill explain, even before going into this, I still think the transfer 
was not suitable on the grounds of financial viability.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
As Ive said, the critical yield used was 6.7%. But I think 8.3% was the appropriate figure. 
This compares with the discount rate of 6.2% per year for 18 full years to retirement in this 
case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr S 
attitude to risk  which Towergate recorded as balanced - and also the term to retirement. 
There would be little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, I 
think Mr S was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
Towergate argues that Mr S was aware of this. And the suitability report does make a 
number of references to risk  that the new pension would be subject to investment risk, it 
could go up or down in value and that Mr S could be left with lower retirement provisions. It 
also said if the returns did not match the CY it was likely Mr S would be left with less. But 
these are all rather general warnings. The report did at one point go as far as saying there 
is a real risk you could be worse off. But none of those statements were quantified with 
comparisons within the report. No monetary examples were directly referenced. And 
Towergate also said in one section of the report that Mr S could POTENTIALLY retire 
earlier than the normal retirement age of the scheme on a higher pension. Which doesnt 
appear to be supported by the information available.
As I mentioned Towergate included reference to a traffic light system it used when 
assessing transfers. This to me was an attempt to explain the risks in an understandable 
way. But as Ive noted, I think the CY used by Towergate was incorrect and shouldve been 
8.3%. Towergates own explanation said it wouldnt generally recommend transfers where 
the CY was above 7.5% and this would be considered red on its system. But in its 
explanation to Mr S it said he was an amber  amber combination  which doesnt appear 
to be correct. So, it appears that the straightforward explanation Towergate tried to give, 
incorrectly categorised the risks involved.
So, with all of this in mind, Im not sure I agree that Mr S could have fully understood the 
risks that the transfer was not financially viable.
Of course, while from a financial viability perspective a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
in Mr S best interests, this isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. The suitability report indicates that Towergate felt other objectives would be 
met. And this seems to have been the reason for the advice given. Ive considered these 
below.
Flexibility
Towergate recorded that Mr S wanted to retire early, at 60. And the advisers rationale outlined in the documents provided indicated that they felt this would potentially be better 
achieved by transferring. But Im satisfied Mr S could have achieved this by staying in the 
DB scheme. This is because he was entitled to take retirement benefits under the existing 
scheme at age 60, with no deductions.
Mr S needed £10,000 per year in retirement according to the information gathered by 
Towergate. According to the TVAS, if he took benefits from the DB scheme at 60, he would 
be entitled to an annual income of £10,373  this would have met Mr S retirement income 
needs as noted in the fact-find.
Had Mr S opted to take TFC through the DB scheme when retiring at age 60, I understand 
the pension he wouldve been due wouldve been less, with the TVAS suggesting a figure of 
£6,624 per annum. It isnt clear if Mr S wouldve elected to take tax free cash. When 
completing the attitude to risk assessment Mr S answered one of the questions posed by 
saying he had no need to maximise TFC. Suggesting this wasnt a priority for him. And 
Towergate used a critical yield figure which excluded tax free cash  suggesting it also didnt 
think Mr S would take this. But even if he did take tax free cash, the guaranteed benefits he 
wouldve received under the DB scheme, which wouldve continued to escalate in retirement, 
appear likely when combined with his state pension entitlement to have been enough to 
meet his income needs in retirement. And that is even before taking into account any further 
pension provisions Mr S wouldve been able to accrue in the intervening period.
So, I dont think a recommendation to transfer, and take additional risks, to meet this 
objective was in his best interests.
Death benefits
Towergates suitability report also indicated that Mr S other objectives were to improve the 
lump sum death benefits and spouses / dependents pension provisions. The report 
indicated this could potentially be achieved by transferring. And the advisers rationale, 
recorded separately, indicates that lump sum death benefits would be improved by 
transferring.
Im not sure that these were genuine objectives, however. Mr S selected statements during 
the assessment of his attitude to risk that his dependents would receive significant sums 
upon his death so increasing these was not a priority for him and that his spouses pension 
under the existing scheme was most important and he felt this should continue. Towergate 
appears to have assumed these objectives based on the priority order Mr S gave at the 
same time in relation to the various features of potential retirement planning. But I dont think 
it was right to do so. The priority order Mr S gave indicated what he thought was important. 
But that shouldve been reviewed in conjunction with the answers he gave to the other 
questions. And when looked at together I think this shows that, while provisions for 
dependents were what he thought was one of the more important part of retirement 
provisions, making changes or improving on what he already had were not a priority for him 
at that time as he felt what he had was important.
Mr S was married with children. The DB scheme would provide a guaranteed, escalating 
pension to Mr S spouse if he pre-deceased them. And I understand it would also have paid 
a dependents pension to his children in certain circumstances as well. This was not a feature 
that the personal pension recommended matched or provided  which seems to have been 
in direct conflict with what Mr S said about wanting to maintain these benefits. The personal 
pension would, I understand, have paid a lump sum on death equivalent to the remaining 
value of the pension. But this wouldve been subject to investment performance and reduced 
by any income that was taken from the pension before death. In any event, Mr S had 
indicated this was not a priority. And even if it were, if he wanted to leave a legacy that wasnt dependent on investment returns or how much of his pension remained, then I think 
life insurance mayve been a more appropriate alternative.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension meant that transfer was in Mr S best interests.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Mr S has indicated in the responses he provided to Towergates review of the advice that he 
had concerns over the security of pensions in general  including that of his former scheme. 
And that prompted him to think about transferring.
I understand that this mayve been Mr S opinion. But again, Towergate was required to give 
impartial advice, which should in my view, have included talking to Mr S about why he had 
these concerns and potentially challenging them. But I dont think it did so. And in fact, Id 
argue it mayve added to these concerns.
The suitability report comments that in transferring out of the scheme Mr S would be giving 
up the benefits of the employer covenant - Mr S former employers legal obligation to fund 
the DB scheme. But the report goes on to say Please note the employer covenant in itself is 
not a guarantee. Then also comments  these guarantees are reliant on the financial 
solvency of the OPS and the Trustees being able to meet the OPSs liabilities.
In other words, while telling Mr S that he was giving up guaranteed benefits Towergates 
report also implied that those benefits were not in fact guaranteed and could be lost if the 
scheme and his employer became insolvent. But Ive seen no evidence that the funding of 
the OPS was underfunded such that Mr S should have genuinely been concerned about the 
security of his pension. But thats the impression Towergates suitability report gives.
I've seen insufficient evidence that the OPS would be unable to meet its obligations or that 
Mr S former employer was likely to become insolvent. Further, the scheme also had the 
added security of the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), which would have preserved most of 
Mr S guaranteed benefits from the OPS had it gone insolvent. The only mention of the PPF 
in the suitability report is the potential of Mr S having to rely on this in the event the OPS 
wasnt able to meet its obligations  which again I think was unlikely. But I dont think this is 
an objective summary and fails to make it clear to Mr S that relying on the PPF was not as 
concerning as Mr S mayve thought or as Towergate had implied.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Towergate did enough to objectively address 
Mr S concerns about the security of the fund when it provided advice. And in any event, I 
dont think these apparent concerns were enough to make the recommendation to transfer 
appropriate.
Summary
Contrary to what Towergate has said, Im satisfied that it did recommend that he transfer. 
The evidence Ive seen supports that this was its recommendation. It is implied that the 
recommendation was to transfer and invest both the CETV and additional payment  
although I think even this is not made clear. But I think, even that recommendation was not 
suitable.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that transferring his benefits from his DB scheme 
was suitable for Mr S. By transferring, Mr S was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits, regardless of whether he invested the CETV alone or the CETV and additional 
payment, and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think Towergate shouldve clearly advised Mr S to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider if Mr S wouldve acted differently if it had. Towergate has 
indicated it considered Mr S an insistent client as he disregarded its advice by opting to take 
the additional payment from the trustees as cash. So, it thinks he would always have done 
this, and the position would be unchanged.
As Ive highlighted, I dont think the advice given by Towergate was clear. There was a 
significant amount of information not included, in particular meaningful comparisons, that I 
think shouldve been. And the recommendations were unclear, often not supported by clear 
reasoning and at times contradictory. While Im satisfied Towergate was recommending a 
transfer, Im not sure this was clear at the time to Mr S. I do acknowledge that there were 
statements within the suitability report that explained taking the additional payment as cash 
was against Towergates advice. Which Mr S acknowledged. But due to the lack of clarity 
around what the advice was, I dont think Mr S was in a position to make a fully informed 
decision about the advice given to him. And I dont think I agree that he was truly an insistent 
client, or always would have been.
I have though thought about whether he wouldve acted differently or wouldve gone ahead 
anyway, even if Towergate had provided clear advice to him.
Towergate recorded that Mr S wanted to use the additional sum offered by the trustees to 
reduce his mortgage. It noted he was self-employed and that his household outgoings 
exceeded income and that he was receiving help from family members to make ends meet 
while his business got going. So, it thinks he had a genuine need for the lump sum and 
would always have taken it. Its a little concerning that none of this was covered in any detail 
in the suitability report. Id argue that this is important information about Mr S circumstances 
and context behind the advice. So, for it not to be included is surprising.
Mr S has acknowledged that he was receiving a low income at the point of the advice. But 
he said while the money, from the additional payment offered by the existing scheme, was 
nice to have it was not needed or essential. And he has mentioned that he had a 
redundancy pay-out from when he left his employer not long before the advice, which he 
was able to rely on while his business got going, as well as support from family.
The outstanding balance of Mr S mortgage was recorded as being £44,000 at the point of 
the advice. So, the additional payment released by transferring would not have cleared this. 
And there would still have been a balance with payments due. While it is likely these monthly 
payments mayve decreased, there is no indication of exactly how much this wouldve been 
by. And given mortgage payments are recorded as having made up £300 of expenditure, it 
doesnt appear this wouldve been enough to alleviate the income deficit.
In any event though I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S was behind with payments 
or having issues with creditors at the time of the advice. Id also note that some of the 
surplus outgoings recorded were discretionary. And the variable necessary expenditure 
recorded is not broken down and appears to have been amended from an originally lower 
figure. Mr S has also detailed that he was receiving support from family and there is no 
indication that this was not sustainable. So, while I appreciate a deficit mayve been cause 
for some concern, I dont think, based on what Ive seen that Mr S needed to take action to 
address this at the point he received advice or that severely impacting his retirement 
provisions were the most appropriate way to address this. So, I dont currently think he did 
have a pressing need to release this money.I dont doubt of a significant lump sum payment such as this wouldve appealed to Mr S. But 
taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme, against Towergates advice, if it had provided a clear and reasoned 
explanation why this wasnt in his interests.
Mr S was not a member of another pension scheme at the time. And he indicated this 
pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. He also indicated that retiring 
early was his main preference. The best chance of achieving this appears to have been 
through remaining in the scheme. And I think by transferring he put the chances of doing so 
at significant risk. If this had been explained clearly to Mr S by Towergate, a professional 
independent adviser, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. And, I dont think Mr S 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, due to the failings in the advice provided by Towergate, I think it should 
compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension 
transfer redress methodology.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Mr S didnt make any additional comments.
Towergate said that it had reviewed the sale as part of its internal review, which had been 
discussed with the regulator, and it felt there was no reason for our service to reach a 
different conclusion.
It also said it still considered that Mr S was an insistent client and would always have gone 
ahead. It said the fact find illustrated an income deficit. And while it noted my comments that 
there was nothing to suggest the support Mr S was receiving wasnt sustainable there was 
also nothing to support that it was sustainable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board what Towergate has said about it having previously reviewed the sale. 
But my decision is based on the information and evidence that has been provided to our 
service. While Towergate mayve concluded differently that doesnt impact my investigation. 
Nor does it mean Im required to reach the same opinion, particularly given, as Ive 
explained, I dont agree with Towergates conclusion that its advice was not to transfer.
Turning to Towergates comments that it still considers that Mr S was an insistent client, 
there is very little for me to add to what I said in my provisional findings. Im satisfied that 
Towergates recommendation was overall for Mr S to transfer, and that this was unsuitable. 
But Im also satisfied that the advice and reasoning were unclear, meaning Mr S could not, in 
my view, make an informed decision. And I remain of the opinion that, if Mr S had been 
given a clear, reasoned recommendation against transferring, that advice wouldve carried 
significant weight and I dont agree that hed have disregarded it.
Towergate has reiterated it thinks Mr S had a need for a cash lump sum as he had an 
income deficit. But as I explained in my provisional findings, the expenditure recorded at the 
time was not broken down in detail, the figure seems to have been changed (increased significantly) and a portion was recorded as discretionary. So, it isnt clear if the deficit 
recorded was entirely accurate. Ive also seen nothing to suggest, even if such a deficit 
existed, Mr S was in arrears with his creditors and needed to clear debts, specifically his 
mortgage. And I cant see that Towergate gathered evidence to the contrary. 
And in any event the lump sum would not have cleared Mr S mortgage in full. So, 
repayments to the mortgage would only have been reduced, rather than freed up entirely. 
And the amount recorded for the mortgage repayments were less than the apparent deficit  
so wouldnt have resulted in the apparent deficit being addressed.
Towergate has said that there is nothing to suggest that the support Mr S was receiving from 
family to cover the apparent deficit was sustainable. But that isnt entirely correct. There is 
Mr S testimony. And Mr S has also explained that hed received a redundancy payment not 
too long before the advice was given. And this could also have been used if necessary. And 
given what I know about his circumstances at the time, including what was recorded about 
his employment situation by Towergate, I have no reason to doubt this.
Where evidence is limited, I have to make a decision on balance of probabilities, using the 
information I do have. And I while I acknowledge that Towergate does not agree, it hasnt 
provided anything that leads me to alter my opinion that Mr S did not have a pressing need 
to release money. And so overall, I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring, had he 
been given clear advice. And I remain of the opinion that Towergate should compensate him 
for the failings in its advice.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Towergates unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Towergate must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I think Mr S wouldve remained in the DB scheme and taken benefits at age 60  
as no deduction would be applied for doing so. So, compensation should be based on a 
retirement age of 60.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
Towergate may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr S contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr S SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date Towergate receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Towergate to pay 
Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Towergate Financial 
(East) Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Towergate Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Towergate 
Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Towergate Financial (East) Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Towergate Financial 
(East) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman