DRN-2247467
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a packaged 
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mr P paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return. He 
thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
What happened
I understand that Bank of Scotland sold Mr P the URCA during April 2011 and that it was his 
first Bank of Scotland account, although he had held fee-free accounts with another UK 
bank.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to him. Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review him case. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mr Ps case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr P and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr P around ten years ago, neither side has been 
able to send us any detailed records from the time. So, when I cant be sure what happened, 
Ive used the evidence which is available to decide what is most likely to have occurred.
In 2011, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only 
(or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, I would 
have expected Bank of Scotland to tell Mr P about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly 
and fairly and to give him a choice; and in an advised sale, I would also have expected it to 
check if he needed the benefits which the account could provide. 
Mr P and Bank of Scotland have both said that Bank of Scotland sold him the URCA during 
a meeting in one of its branches, and Bank of Scotland has told us that it did so on an 
information-only basis. This was its usual practice in 2011, and I havent seen anything to 
make me think that it changed its normal procedures or Mr P. So, I have considered his case 
as a non-advised sale. 
Mr P has told us quite a bit about what he remembers happening during the meeting. He has 
said that he went to the branch to ask about a savings account but the person he spoke to 
went on to the URCA and w ould not let it drop  Hes  said that he felt pressured  
and pestered  into buying  it. Bank  of Scotland  has denied  this. It has said that it 
treated  Mr P fairly  and gave  him a choice.  
I accept  that Bank  of Scotland  may well have  talked  positively  about  the URCA,  
but I doubt  that it applied  undue  pressure  to Mr P, or pestered  him about  it. I 
also accept  that he may well have  wanted  a savings  account  (and  I understand  
that he opened  one a few months  later),  but I think  it was reasonable  for Bank  of 
Scotland  to tell him about  the URCA  at the same  time.  I dont  think  this 
amounted  to pestering,  particularly  as there  only seems  to have  been  one 
discussion.  I think  Bank  of Scotland  probably  gave  Mr P a fair choice.
When  Bank  of Scotland  sold URCAs  to its customers,  it normally  gave  them  a 
14 day cooling  off period,  during  which  time they could  cancel  the account  with 
no charge.  Mr P has complained  that Bank  of Scotland  never  told him about  this. 
Hes  said that Bank  of Scotland  did not say that (he) had two weeks to change mind 
and he was not told there was a cooling off period.
Obviously, I cant tell for sure what Bank of Scotland said, or didnt say to Mr P during the 
meeting, but it has told us it gave, or sent, Mr P a welcome pack about the URCA. I have 
seen an example welcome pack from around the time Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr 
P. Its quite a lengthy booklet, but towards the front, it had a section about the cooling off 
period which said:
Not happy?
You have 14 days starting from the day after your agreement is concluded to give us 
written notice that you wish to cancel. Notice should be given in writing to 
 
Im satisfied  that Bank  of Scotland  gave  this welcome  pack  to Mr P, and I also 
think  its likely  that it told him about  the cooling  off period  during  the meeting  as 
this would  have  helped  to reinforce  his choice,  although  I fully accept  Mr P may 
no longer  remember  this. 
In 2011, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, use of a car 
breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones and home emergencies. There doesnt 
seem to be any dispute that Bank of Scotland told Mr P about the monthly fee for the URCA, 
but he has told us that it didnt tell him about the benefits. Hes said that he was not told 
about what features this account had.
However, as Bank of Scotland was trying to sell the URCA to Mr P, it seems highly likely to 
me that it would have told him about the benefits, so he would know what he could get for 
his money. Bank of Scotlands records also show that Mr P registered for the mobile phone 
insurance and went on to make a claim, so Bank of Scotland must have told him about this 
feature.
Mr P has also said that he didnt need the home emergency insurance as he had alternative 
cover. But in an information-only sale, this would have been something for Mr P to consider 
for himself. Furthermore, the URCA came as a package, and even though Mr P may not 
have needed all its potential benefits, it doesnt follow that Bank of Scotland mis-sold it to 
him.
In recent correspondence with us, Mr P has told us that he wasnt happy with the way his 
claim on the mobile phone insurance was handled. He hasnt told us a great deal about this, 
and I havent considered it as part of this decision. This means that Mr P is free to pursue it 
further if he so wishes. But I cant give him any advice about this. Nor can I tell if any complaint he may wish to bring to us about it will fall inside or outside the rules and time 
limits that determine which cases we can consider.
So, in summary, it seems likely to me that Bank of Scotland told Mr P about the benefits and 
costs of the URCA and allowed him a fair choice without applying undue pressure. I dont 
think it mis-sold the URCA to him
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman