DRN-3851077
The complaint
Mr R complains about Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London). Hes 
unhappy with the level of compensation Royal London offered after a system error resulted 
in his personal information being disclosed to other Royal London customers. 
What happened
Mr R holds a personal pension policy (PPP) with Royal London. 
In May 2022, Royal London sent Mr R paperwork he needed to complete to take retirement 
benefits. Having reviewed the paperwork, Mr R noticed that the personal details of another 
individual had been included on an enclosed form. He called Royal London to report the 
error and complain. Royal London responded, confirming that:
Thered been a wider data breach which had resulted in Mr Rs personal information, 
including his name, date of birth, address, phone number, email address, pension 
plan and bank account details, being shared with eighteen of its customers. 
Following General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) guidelines the data breach 
had been reported to its data protection officer.
For further reassurance and peace of mind, Mr R might want to consider using a 
fraud prevention service, such as that offered by the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance 
System (CIFAS). It wasnt fair for Mr R to incur any costs for additional protection, so 
it would take this into account in the conclusions it reached following the completion 
of its investigation.
Royal London sent Mr R new retirement paperwork and having completed its investigations, 
later responded to Mr Rs complaint. In summary it said:
A system error in its printing process led to part of Mr Rs retirement pack being 
incorporated into the printing of eighteen other customers retirement packs. Mr R 
had also received part of another customers retirement pack.
It apologised for the distress and frustration the incident had caused and offered a 
payment of £525, comprising of £500 for distress and inconvenience and £25 to 
cover the cost of CIFAS protection for two years.
Mr R considered Royal Londons offer but didnt think it reflected the seriousness of the error 
or its impact. Given that his information had been shared with eighteen people, Mr R said he 
felt compensation in the region of £9,000 would be more appropriate. He added that the data 
breach couldve been avoided if Royal London had sent blank retirement application forms, 
instead of prepopulating them with his personal details. To this end, he asked Royal London 
to ensure it only sent blank forms in future.
Royal London responded, providing its final response to Mr Rs complaint. It said that having 
reconsidered its previous offer, it was appropriate to increase the total compensation 
payment to Mr R to £1,025  £1,000 for distress and inconvenience and £25 for CIFAS 
protection.
Mr R responded, saying he still didnt think the compensation offered was sufficient, He 
asked Royal London to review its offer and to respond to his request for forms not to be 
prepopulated in the future.
Royal London confirmed that Mr R wouldnt be required to receive or complete forms which 
were prepopulated with his personal information and asked what level of compensation Mr R 
felt would resolve the matter. 
Mr R responded, saying that as Royal Londons error meant there were eighteen 
opportunities for fraud could be committed, reasonable compensation would be £9,000, 
which was Royal Londons original offer multiplied by eighteen. He added that the matter 
was continuing to cause him great anxiety.
Royal London responded to Mr R, confirming that its compensation payment would remain 
as set out in previous correspondence and wouldnt be increased.
Unhappy with Royal Londons response, Mr R referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the matter and said Royal Londons offer was fair. 
Mr R disagreed with our investigator and, in summary, said that Royal Londons error had 
caused him significant stress, for which he deserved additional compensation.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. However, 
before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both 
parties, Ive limited my response to the issue I consider to be central to this complaint. That 
is to say whether, given Royal Londons error, of which theres no dispute, the compensation 
paid to Mr R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Given that the number of personal details disclosed was substantial, and that these were 
shared with a significant number of people, I think the seriousness of the matter was clear. 
So, I find Mr Rs strength of feeling about this matter entirely understandable.  
Mr R says the data breach has caused him a great deal of anxiety and hes concerned about 
its potential impact. Hes said that Royal Londons error has made him vulnerable to 
countless acts of fraud and he doesnt think Royal Londons compensation payment reflects 
this.
When deciding what compensation should be awarded, our service takes two things into 
account  financial loss and non-financial loss, including distress and inconvenience. Royal 
London confirms that theres been no suspicious activity on Mr Rs account since the error 
occurred, which I hope provides some reassurance. Im also pleased to see that theres 
nothing from Mr Rs submissions to indicate that hes suffered a financial loss because of 
Royal Londons mistake.
In circumstances like this, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Royal London to 
pay financial loss or compensation to Mr R for something which hasnt happened. So, while I 
understand the basis on which Mr R thinks the level of compensation hes asking for is 
justified, Im unable to agree. Thankfully, Mr R doesnt appear to have been a victim of fraud, so it would be inappropriate for me to make an award based on a hypothetical situation in 
which he was.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss. There isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for errors. Its my role to consider the impact of Royal Londons mistake on 
Mr R and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether further compensation 
would be appropriate in the circumstances.
Its clear to me that Mr Rs experience here goes beyond mere frustration. Royal Londons 
error caused him distress and worry. And given the circumstances, I dont doubt that. I think 
a situation like Mr Rs, where multiple third parties are given access to an individuals 
personal details, would make anyone anxious. And this anxiety wouldve been heightened 
further given that the error occurred at a time when Mr R was making an important financial 
decision about taking his retirement benefits. 
Im mindful of the efforts Mr R had to make to get an understanding of what happened with 
his personal details and what action Royal London intended to take to put things right. Im 
also conscious that, following the disclosure of his personal details, Mr R was receiving calls 
from some of the eighteen customers his details had been sent to. While I understand that 
these calls largely involved customers letting Mr R know that theyd received his personal 
details by mistake, I think the experience would nevertheless have been troubling. At the 
time, Mr R wasnt aware of the scale of the problem, so its understandable that he may have 
assumed the worst.
Im satisfied that Royal Londons error caused Mr R considerable distress, upset and worry. 
And for this, I would agree that an award reflecting the seriousness of the mistake is 
warranted. Taking everything into account, including the level of awards our service 
recommends, I find Royal Londons payment of £1,000 for distress and inconvenience more 
than fair and reasonable. It exceeds the amount I wouldve directed it to pay had it not 
already made a payment. The £9,000 Mr R seeks would be amongst some the highest 
awards we make for distress and inconvenience, where the impact of a firms error is at its 
most extreme. I dont doubt the sincerity with which Mr R brings his complaint, however I 
dont think the circumstances warrant the award hes seeking.
In addition to the £1,000 compensation Royal London paid Mr R to resolve his complaint, I 
can see it also paid him £25 to cover for the cost of him registering his details with CIFAS, so 
that any concerns about information security could be addressed independently by that 
organisation. Royal London has also agreed to no longer send Mr R prepopulated forms. I 
think this is a fair approach by Royal London because it recognises the concerns Mr R had 
about whether his personal details had been compromised. 
While I havent found in Mr Rs favour, in that I dont think Royal London should pay him the 
compensation hes seeking, I should say that I do think its entirely reasonable for him to 
expect Royal London to keep his personal information safe. And its unfortunate that this 
didnt happen on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman