DRN-3020790
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited, trading as Autonet 
Insurance Group (Autonet) omitted no claims discount protection on his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy. Autonet is an insurance broker.
  
What happened
Mr T took out an insurance policy in September 2019 through Autonet. He had an accident 
in March 2020 and he made a claim. His no claims discount (NCD) had not been protected 
as he had expected. Mr T said that when he originally purchased the policy, he had 
requested protection for his NCD.
Mr T complained to Autonet and it sent a final response letter in August 2020. It accepted 
that Mr T had required NCD protection in an initial telephone conversation with Autonet. In a 
second telephone conversation, other matters were discussed and Autonet failed to 
implement Mr Ts original request. It acknowledged its error and upheld Mr Ts complaint and 
refunded the sum of £274.09 to Mr T.
Mr T remained unhappy however due to the impact on his NCD and he complained to this 
service. Our investigator agreed that Autonet had failed to carry out Mr Ts request to protect 
his NCD when Mr T took out his policy. Our investigator was satisfied however, that once the 
error had been discovered, Autonet took steps to contact the relevant insurance underwriter. 
It asked if the underwriter would honour the original NCD but, this was rejected. The 
investigator said that Autonet then took steps to place Mr T back into the position he would 
have been in had the error not happened by offering a refund. He said this was in line with 
our services approach.
The investigator thought £150 was an appropriate amount of compensation for the impact of 
Autonets mistake on Mr T.
Mr T remains unhappy with this outcome and wants his NCD to be reinstated. The matter 
has therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to consider the evidence and timeline of events in order to come to a decision 
whether Autonet has acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr T. I dont consider 
that it has in all respects and uphold Mr Ts complaint to the same extent as our investigator. 
Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy documents are my starting point. I note that the 
relevant part states as follows: - 
Additional Products
Please note all additional products provide important benefits which are not covered under 
your Goods/Commercial Vehicles Insurance. Listed below are the additional products you 
have chosen to purchase.
Motor Legal Expenses : Yes  Purchased
Vehicle Excess Protector: No - Not Purchased.                                                          
Excess Protection Not Included.
In the letter enclosing these documents in September 2019, it stated; It is important that you 
check the enclosed statement of fact/proposal form very carefully and let us know if any of 
these details are incorrect. Incorrect information could result in your policy being cancelled at 
a later date, a claim being rejected or not paid in full, or your policy being declared void.
Autonet has accepted that Mr T telephoned twice when setting up his insurance policy. It 
also accepts that when Mr T first called to arrange the policy, he selected the option to 
protect his NCD. In a second phone call, a discussion took place regarding certain 
documents, but the NCD was not discussed. Autonet has accepted that it failed to arrange 
NCD protection as requested by Mr T.
I note that it was clear from the policy documents that NCD protection was not in place. Mr T 
should have checked the details. On balance however, I agree with Autonet that the main 
cause of the error was its failure to act on Mr Ts original request. Im satisfied that Autonet 
should therefore place Mr T back into the position hed have been had the error not 
occurred.
Following Mr Ts accident, the insurance underwriter said that it would not honour the 
additional years NCD as there had been a claim and no protection. Autonet then carried out 
a calculation to negate the impact of the reduced NCD on Mr Ts premium. It used a 
quotation comparison and said that insurance would cost Mr T £182.73 more. It multiplied 
this by the three years to reach the figure of £548.19 as it wouldve taken three years to 
reach the maximum NCD again. It then halved this figure due to what it said was the 
reduced cost implication following the first year and this resulted in the figure of £274.09 
offered as a refund to Mr T.
Ive concluded that Autonet did what it could to return Mr T to the position he would have 
been in had the error not happened. As it wasnt possible to honour the original NCD as it 
couldnt control the actions of the underwriter, Im satisfied that Autonet acted fairly and 
reasonably by doing what was possible to remedy the error. 
I agree with our investigator that the matter would have caused Mr T trouble and 
inconvenience. I would have expected Autonet to also look at awarding Mr T a moderate 
amount of compensation. I therefore require Autonet to pay £150 in compensation as well as 
the refund of £274.09 already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
In order to put things right, Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited should award Mr T £150 for 
the trouble and inconvenience caused within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final
Decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 Claire Jones
Ombudsman