DRN-1731772
Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy. 
The mortgage and MPPI have long since been closed and Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, is responsible for answering the complaint. Ill therefore mainly refer to Halifax 
throughout this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs P its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs P genuinely and honestly 
feel the MPPI was mis-sold to them. Their main points of complaint seems to be that they 
feel the MPPI wasnt necessary and that when they met with the adviser, they werent told it 
was optional or provided with the right information.
Nevertheless, the sale of the MPPI looks like it was in 1994 so these events are from 26 
years ago. Its therefore obviously understandable that Mr and Mrs P might not remember 
everything that took place.
Mr and Mrs P havent been able to send us any records about their policy and Halifax hasnt 
got any of the sale documentation left. Given the length of time involved this isnt usual, or 
indeed unreasonable. But Halifax does have some computerised records Ive been able to 
see.
My general experience of these types of Halifax sale is that consumers were usually 
required to sign a specific MPPI application form or declaration to agree to it being added to 
their mortgage. I also note that Mr and Mrs P had had a mortgage since the 1980s 
apparently without any MPPI. By definition therefore, I think when they bought the MPPI in 
1994 during a further advance application, they would have known it wasnt something you 
needed to have with a mortgage.
I also note that only Mrs P was covered on the policy. From that, I think its much more likely 
that their financial situation was discussed during the sale process and they chose to have 
Mrs P covered because it suited their needs. I find it quite unlikely that a policy would be 
portrayed as compulsory and then for only one party to be required to have the cover, on a 
joint mortgage.In short, we have no signed paperwork left, but the circumstances of the sale do appear to 
suggest the MPPI was added because Mr and Mrs P wanted it at the time. I note they kept it 
for several years. I accept they may not recall any of this now but I think its much more likely 
they agreed to the cover. I think it's more likely that Halifax properly obtained their consent.
Halifax concedes it would have probably recommended the MPPI as part of an advised 
sale. This means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it 
was. 
I say this because Mrs P appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests it 
wasnt affordable for them. Mr and Mrs P implied they didnt need the cover because they 
also had sickness protection with their jobs. Ive thought very carefully about this but it 
doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against their home and so 
the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In 
the event of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 24 months which in my 
experience is a relatively long time and more than some of the other MPPI products around 
at the time. This would have been in addition to any other means they had in place at the 
time. 
So although I cant say why they decided to buy this policy for Mrs P, I dont think it being 
recommended to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable product for their 
consideration. 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm whether Halifax did everything right, but having discussed the 
cover I think Mr and Mrs P would have been given the supporting literature explaining the 
policy rules. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but I think there is enough evidence they engaged 
in discussions about this sale and would have gone through a number of steps to get the 
policy. I dont find anything that supports their complaint that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. And I dont direct Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman