DRN-3203064
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint about Metro Bank PLC (MB) relates to the service he received when trying 
to update his mortgage account and current account address details.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage and a linked current account with MB. In May 2021 Mr M moved to a 
new house and rang MB to update them with his new address. The number he rang was for 
the mortgage department and during the call he asked if his current account would also be 
updated. The adviser told Mr M that he would need to ring the current account department 
himself to do that which he did. 
The adviser in the current account department asked Mr M for some security information, in 
particular the expiry date on his debit card, which Mr M didnt know as he didnt have the 
card on him at that time. Mr M explained that he didnt use the card and barely used the 
account. As he couldnt pass through the verification process MB advised that he would 
need to go into a branch with some photographic ID and two pieces of proof of address in 
order to affect the address change. Mr M explained that this would involve him in over an 
hour-long drive which he said was unacceptable and as a result made a complaint. MB then 
agreed that Mr M send the required documents to their head office by post. 
MB didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint saying that it had followed its policy on updating a 
customers address correctly. It said it had since amended its policy but at the time Mr M 
made his complaint their process required a high level of security which included needing 
the expiry date information from his card. And it confirmed that because Mr M had been 
unable to amend his address on his current account they couldnt then send their final 
response letter (FRL) to him as they didnt have the correct address. Further, as Mr M didnt 
have an email address registered to his account, MB couldnt send the FRL to him by email, 
and neither could they at that point accept an email address since he had failed the 
verification process.
 
Mr M was unhappy with MBs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that MB hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he feels MBs verification requirements 
were above and beyond what was necessary. I also understand that he is naturally annoyed 
that he passed the verification process with MBs mortgage department but that was not 
deemed sufficient for their current account department. I can see therefore why he feels 
inconvenienced that he had to spend almost an hour during his lunch break trying to sort 
matters out.
Underlying Mr Ms complaint is MBs security policy. I feel I should clarify that any overall 
concerns about business process would need to be raised with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Businesses are required to have in place rigorous security procedures in 
order to protect their customers from fraudulent activity. Its not our role to recommend how 
financial businesses should conduct or arrange their commercial operations and processes  
thats for them to determine. We dont have the power to make rules for financial businesses, 
assess or direct that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened 
in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check they followed their rules and 
procedures and have applied them fairly.
At the time Mr M rang to update his address with MB they had the policy of requiring a 
customer to contact both the mortgage account department and the current account 
department separately. They also required the customer to provide a specific piece of 
information from their debit card. 
I understand this process has now been changed, but I cant take that into account, because 
what I must look at is how MB applied their policy to Mr M at the time. What MB did was 
nothing more or less than their policy demanded they do for all their customers. I have 
thought about whether MB should have set their policy aside in Mr Ms particular 
circumstances given he was unable to answer one of the security questions. But account 
security is a very serious matter, and so stepping outside of that policy would have left both 
MB and Mr M at significant risk had the interaction not been what is seemed. In the light of 
that, I dont think it was unreasonable that MB refused to proceed. So, considering the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that the policy was fairly applied, and I cant say that MB have 
done anything wrong.
So, although Mr M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say MB has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman