DRN-2962436
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA, recorded a missed payment on his
credit file and about how they handled his subsequent complaint.
What happened
Mr T had a direct debit set up to make monthly payments to his PayPal account. In June
2020, Mr T changed banks, and amended his direct debit online so that future payments
would be taken from his new bank account.
In September 2020, Mr T received an email from a credit reference agency advising him that
PayPal were recording a late payment marker on his credit file. Mr T contacted PayPal about
this and was told that his August direct debit payment had been returned unpaid. Mr T
wasnt happy about this, especially as he hadnt received any notification from PayPal that
the direct debit had been returned. So, he raised a complaint.
PayPal looked at Mr Ts complaint, but they noted that they had sent notifications to Mr T
advising him that his direct debit payment had failed. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with PayPals response, and he wasnt happy with how theyd handled
his complaint, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at
this complaint. They also felt that PayPal had sent notifications to Mr T advising that the
direct debit payment had failed, so they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ts complaint.
However, our investigator felt that Mr T had received a poor standard of service from PayPal
when hed tried to chase a resolution to this issue, so they recommended that the complaint
be upheld in Mr Ts favour on this basis and that PayPal should make a payment of £50 to
compensate Mr T for the inconvenience hed incurred.
Mr T didnt think that the recommendation made by our investigator went far enough, so the
complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 August 2021 as follows:
I can understand how it must have been frustrating for Mr T to have discovered that 
PayPal had reported a missed payment on his credit file, especially as he was 
unaware that there had been anything amiss with his monthly direct debit.
However, PayPal have provided this service with emails sent by them to Mr T 
following the direct debit payment being returned unpaid which advise Mr T that the 
direct debit payment had failed and which notified Mr T of the need to make a 
payment toward the account so as avoid potential adverse reporting on his credit file.
The sending of these notifications is what this service would expect of PayPal here, 
and so I find it very difficult to conclude that PayPal have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in subsequently reporting a missed payment to Mr Ts credit file when 
Mr T didnt then make the payment toward his account that was required.
Mr T raised a complaint with PayPal about this issue, and hes expressed to this 
service his dissatisfaction with the standard of customer service he received from 
PayPal when chasing a resolution to that complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ts position here. But having reviewed this aspect of Mr Ts 
complaint I dont feel that this is an aspect of his complaint that its within the remit of 
this service to consider.
This service isnt free to consider all complaints that are brought to us. What this 
service can and cant consider is defined in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook.
One of the restrictions placed on this service is that we are unable to consider 
complaints about how a complaint to a business has been handled by that business 
 such as is the case in this instance. And the reason for this is that how a business 
handles a complaint isnt a regulated activity as defined by the FCA Handbook.
Having reviewed the initial complaint form sent to this service by Mr T, as well as the
ancillary submissions which relate to Mr T being unhappy at how long PayPal took to
respond to his complaint, Im satisfied that this aspect of Mr Ts complaint is a 
complaint about how PayPal handled his complaint to them, and therefore isnt 
something that this service can consider.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting here, but given that Im
satisfied that PayPal did send the relevant notifications to Mr T that his direct debit 
had failed, and also given that Im satisfied that this service is unable to consider the 
other aspect of his complaint, it follows that my provisional decision here will be that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking PayPal to take any further action at this 
time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr T and PayPal the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information that they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision.
PayPal didnt provide any further comments. However, Mr T did respond to my provisional 
decision by expressing his disappointment at not being made aware previously that 
complaints about how a business handles a complaint fall outside the remit of this service.
I can appreciate Mr Ts frustration on this point, but unfortunately it doesnt override the remit 
of this service by which I have to abide, and which doesnt permit me to consider the aspect 
of this complaint regarding Mr Ts dissatisfaction at how PayPal have handled his complaint.
Additionally, it remains my position that because PayPal attempted to contact Mr T when his 
payment was first missed and his account fell into arrears and inform him of these facts, I 
dont feel that I can reasonably censure PayPal for subsequently reporting adverse 
information to Mr Ts credit file when Mr T didnt make the payment necessary to clear those 
arrears. All of which means I see no reason not to issue my final decision on the same basis as 
outlined in my provisional decision, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint as previously explained.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman