DRN-3231593
The complaint
Mr D complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway irresponsibly granted him 
a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2016, Mr D acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Moneyway. Mr D was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £336 followed by a final 
monthly payment of £346. The total repayable under the agreement was £20,192.
Mr D says that Moneyway didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneyway didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and verifying Mr Ds 
income through his wage slip. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneyway didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr D didnt agree and said his credit file showed he had been using payday loans and had 
defaulted accounts in the years before this agreement was provided and that his bank 
statements showed he was incurring charges for unauthorised overdraft usage. He says that 
he was initially declined finance, but this decision then changed.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneyway will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check Moneyway completed showed that Mr D had two defaulted accounts. One 
of these was historic and had been settled and one still had an amount of £433 owing. While 
noting the default, the credit check didnt show any other financial commitments and so I do 
not think this alone would be a reason not to lend to Mr D.
Moneyway received a copy of Mr Ds payslip from the month before the agreement and this 
showed he had an income of £1,376. Moneyway has said that Mr D declared that he had no 
dependents and was living with his parents, but I cannot see that any evidence of his 
expenses was gathered. Given the repayments were almost 25% of Mr Ds monthly income 
(based on the wage slip provided) and the agreement term was 60 months, I think it would 
have been proportionate and reasonable for Moneyway to have verified Mr Ds outgoings so 
to ensure the agreement was affordable. 
One of the ways that Moneyway could have verified Mr D expenditure was by reviewing 
bank statements. Mr D has provided a copy of his credit report and bank statements for the 
months leading up to the agreement. Ive reviewed the credit report and three months of 
statements which I think give a good indication of what Moneyway would likely have found 
out had it completed proportionate checks. 
I note Mr Ds comments about his use of payday loans and defaulted accounts. The credit 
report provided shows the defaulted accounts already noted above. It shows that Mr D had 
previously made use of payday lenders but there were no outstanding credit commitments at 
the time of the agreement and his bank statements do not show payments to other credit 
providers in the months leading up to April 2016. The statements show that Mr Ds income 
was as confirmed by his March payslip and was higher in the previous two months. He had 
limited regular committed expenditure and his monthly expenditure appeared to be less than 
£300 mainly paying for food and fuel. Taking these figures into account, it appears to show 
the agreement was affordable to Mr D. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneyway 
acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman