DRN-2200158
The complaint
Mr A complains that, when he obtained a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo Finance, it was misrepresented to him. He 
says he was wrongly told the car had a full service history.
Mr A wants Motonovo to pay for the repairs which are now required on the car.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision dated 7 September 
2020. As both parties are familiar with the details of this complaint, I wont repeat them again 
here.
In my provisional decision, I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I 
said:
Mr A says most cars, including those of lower value, will come with a service history. 
And that, because his car didnt, there should have been a sticker on the car, or 
something in the advertising, to highlight the lack of service history. But I dont agree. 
It isnt a requirement fora garage to list all features that a particular car does not 
have.
Motonovo has shown us the advertising wording that was used for the car and this 
does not mention a service history.
But I also need to consider what the supplying garage said to Mr A during the sales 
process. Theres no record of exactly what was said, but Mr A has provided his 
recollections. He says he was told  by the salesperson and his manager - that the 
previous owner of the car was a car hire business which carried out its own servicing 
to the manufacturers standards. I am persuaded that, in all likelihood, this is what he 
was told when the car was supplied to him.
I say this because Mr A has provided a recording of a phone call with the supplying 
garage. This call took place around a year after the car had been supplied when Mr A 
had been told by the manufacturer that the servicing hadnt been carried out in line 
with its standards. The supplying garage are very clear in telling Mr A that the 
business that previously owned the car carry out all its servicing in line with the 
manufacturers guidelines. So I think it more likely than not that this is what he was 
also told when the car was supplied to him. But it doesnt automatically follow that I 
think Motonovo should pay for the repairs now required on the car. I need to think 
about whether the failure to tell Mr A that, although the car had a service history, it 
didnt fully comply with the manufacturers guidelines, would have made a difference 
to him. In other words, whether I think Mr A would have gone ahead with the hire 
purchase agreement.
Mr A told our investigator that his main reason for purchasing this car was because 
he was told it had a full service history. But Im not persuaded this was the case. I 
think this became important to Mr A a year later when the car broke down and he 
realised the repairs wouldnt be covered by the manufacturers warranty. At the time 
the car was supplied, he didnt obtain evidence of the service history. He says he 
was told by the supplying garage that the service history was online. But if this was 
the main reason for him choosing this car, I would reasonably have expected Mr A to 
want to see that online evidence before he entered into the agreement, and certainly 
shortly afterwards.
The car had been serviced, but not to the manufacturers specifications. Mr A 
couldnt have anticipated that the car would require repairs a year after hed obtained 
it and I think that its only with the benefit of hindsight that he is now saying how 
important it was for him that the car had a full service history. I think it more likely that 
he would have gone ahead with the agreement, knowing that the car had been 
regularly serviced, albeit not fully in line with the manufacturers requirements.
Motonovo agreed with my provisional decision. Mr A didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman