DRN-2596162
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has handled his subsidence 
claim under his home insurance policy. Any reference to Aviva includes the actions of its 
agents.
What happened
Mr B has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Aviva. In September 2018 Mr 
B told Aviva hed noticed damage to a bay window at the front of his property.
Aviva accepted the damage was caused by subsidence and was therefore, covered 
under the policy. As requested, Mr B provided Aviva with contractors estimates as to 
the works required to fix the damage. Mr B and his contractors said underpinning was 
necessary, along with superstructure repairs. But Aviva disagreed.
Avivas position is that the subsidence was caused by a cherry tree in Mr Bs garden 
extracting moisture from the ground, causing the clay soil to shrink. The tree was 
subsequently removed in June 2019. Aviva is satisfied that removing the tree provides a 
lasting and effective repair and so, it considers only superstructure repairs to be 
necessary. Mr B disagrees. He says the damage has worsened since the removal of the 
tree and believes this shows underpinning is required.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He said while he couldnt ask Aviva to cover 
the cost of underpinning without expert evidence, it should appoint another geotechnical 
engineer to conduct further investigations. The investigator said Aviva had wrongly 
concluded the cherry tree was the dominant cause, as its initial report said it was only an 
exacerbating factor.
He added the report recommended further monitoring to check the efficacy of removing 
the tree, but this had been ignored. He said that if following further investigation, there 
was a more than negligible possibility of further movement, the engineer should provide 
an appropriate course of action. He also recommended Aviva pay £500 compensation 
for the delays and distress Mr B had experienced while dealing with the claim.
Aviva agreed to pay the compensation, but it refuted the investigators other findings. It 
said appointing another engineer was disproportionate as the damage is slight and 
requires only modest repair. In the unlikely event of further damage being attributable to a 
cause that should have been already identified, Mr B would be indemnified, and 
compensation paid. It added that Mr B had not agreed to its offers to monitor the damage, 
but that it was still willing to do this.
Mr B arranged for his own geotechnical engineer to inspect his property. The engineer 
said the subsidence was due to a combination of shallow foundations (the existing 
foundations under the bay are 0.40cm in depth) and an exceptionally hot and dry 
summer in 2018. The engineer recommended underpinning to a depth of at least one 
metre to remedy the structural movement and prevent continuing movement.
The investigator considered the parties further points. Because Mr Bs engineer had 
visited the property, he was more persuaded by his report. He also considered the 
engineer to have more notable credentials and experience. So, the investigator 
recommended underpinning be carried out before superstructure repairs. He also 
suggested Aviva reimburse Mr B the cost of the geotechnical engineers report and pay a 
further £100 compensation as thered been further delays.
Aviva disagreed. It said removing the tree and subsequent monitoring to check stability 
was standard procedure. It reiterated that it had offered monitoring, but Mr B had not 
wanted this. It said Mr Bs property had not been affected by previous droughts, so it 
didnt agree that the hot and dry summer had been the substantive cause. It said without 
evidence of continued subsidence then underpinning would be a preventative measure 
which its not required to do. It added that Mr Bs original complaint was not about 
underpinning so it didnt agree that we should be looking at this complaint point.
Because the parties did not agree, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
In my provsional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When handling a claim Avivas duties include handling it promptly and fairly, 
not unreasonably rejecting it, providing reasonable guidance to make a claim 
and appropriate information on its progress. And once terms are agreed it 
should settle the claim promptly. Here, its not in dispute that subsidence is the 
cause of the damage to Mr Bs property, and that cover is provided for this as 
per the policy terms.
We will provide cover for the loss of or damage to the buildings caused 
by any one of the following: [] subsidence or heave of the land on 
which the buildings stand, or landslip.
But the parties havent been able to agree on whats needed to repair the 
damage to Mr Bs property, so I need to decide a way forward.
Mr Bs provided estimates from contractors which he believes supports his 
position that underpinning is necessary. But I must keep in mind when looking 
at this what is reasonably required as opposed to just what the contractors 
have estimated based on what Mr B told them was required to put things right  
namely, underpinning. While the contractors may have a good understanding 
as to how to underpin a property, this doesnt necessarily mean they have the 
expertise to determine the cause of subsidence or the appropriate remedial 
works. As such, Im not persuaded the estimates prove underpinning is the only 
remedy.
Ive carefully considered the expert reports provided by both parties. As our 
investigator explained, there are discrepancies as to the cause of the 
subsidence within Avivas own reports. An earlier report attributes it to seasonal 
variations in moisture content being exacerbated by neighbouring vegetation, 
while another says the cherry tree in Mr Bs garden was the dominant cause. I 
note however, that the latter finding was made by an arborist  an expert in tree 
management. The arborist recommended removal of the tree and further monitoring to check the efficacy of doing so. The arborists conclusions were 
supported by Avivas subsidence director who was satisfied that removing the 
tree was enough to stabilise the property. And this is a common practice across 
the insurance industry.
On the other hand, Mr Bs geotechnical attributed the subsidence to a very 
hot and dry summer the same year Mr B noticed the damage  and so 
made a recommendation for underpinning.
Our investigator was more persuaded by Mr Bs engineers report  placing 
weight on his credentials and experience, and the fact hed visited his property. 
While I acknowledge this, Avivas agents are also highly qualified experts and 
so I dont think it would be fair to discount their findings on this basis. Aviva has 
raised concerns about the impartiality of Mr Bs geotechnical engineers report, 
noting the engineer is known to Mr B. But I accept the findings have been 
provided in good faith. So, at present theres little to distinguish the credibility of 
the reports.
Aviva has a duty to handle Mr Bs claim promptly and fairly. In deciding how to 
move things forward, I have kept in mind that Aviva has, and continues to, offer 
to monitor the damage. I know Mr B has said it has deteriorated but Aviva cant 
make a fair assessment unless its had the opportunity to see if removing the 
tree has provided a lasting and effective repair.
While I appreciate its been a stressful time for Mr B, I dont think Avivas 
request to monitor the situation was unreasonable  its standard practice to 
monitor efficacy once a tree(s) / vegetation has been removed. While I cant 
know what would have been found had monitoring been allowed earlier on, it is 
likely that Mr Bs claim would be further forward by now. And so, by not 
allowing Aviva to attend, Mr B has perhaps, inadvertently extended the length 
of this claim.
Mr B has said his relationship with Aviva has broken down to such an extent 
he didnt want them to visit his property. But I havent seen enough to convince 
me this was reasonable grounds for not agreeing to monitoring. In any event, 
Mr B has a duty under the policy to assist Aviva with its handling of his claim.
Considering what Ive said above, Im satisfied Aviva provided a fair solution in 
offering to monitor the damage to see if its remedy had worked. Until Aviva can 
monitor, the parties are at an impasse.
So, Mr B may like to consider liaising with Aviva to arrange for it to monitor the 
damage over a period of time  but thats a decision for him to ultimately make. 
Alternatively, the parties may consider that a cash settlement, based on Avivas 
report as to the repairs it considers to be required, a more desirable solution to 
bring the matter to a conclusion. If Mr B allows Aviva to monitor his property 
Aviva will advise him of any further movement and cause if such is apparent. 
And on that basis Aviva will be able to consider what repairs will be lasting and 
effective.
Distress and inconvenience
Our investigator initially recommended Aviva pay Mr B £500 compensation 
because it hadnt, at times, progressed his claim and complaint in a timely manner. Aviva has agreed to pay this.
The investigator later recommended Aviva pay a further £100 compensation, but 
Aviva disagreed. From what Ive seen, Im not satisfied an additional payment is 
warranted. I cant see that any further delays were solely attributable to Avivas 
handling or that they went beyond what might reasonably be expected with a 
claim such as this - and where the consumer has asked for our involvement. As I 
said above, by not allowing Aviva to attend his property, Mr B has contributed to 
the time its taken in trying to reach a solution to his claim.
Aviva has said that if it were to find the damage had worsened and its 
attributable to something which it ought to have identified during its 
investigations, then it would compensate Mr B for this. I consider this to 
be a fair resolution in respect of this.
And so, based on the information I have, I wont be directing Aviva to pay a 
further £100 compensation.
Redress
Our investigator recommended Aviva reimburse Mr B the cost of having a 
geotechnical report carried out, but I disagree. While I appreciate that he 
arranged the report as Mr B believed it would support his position, Aviva had 
already put forward a reasonable solution by offering to monitor the situation  
one which I consider to be fair in the circumstances. And so, I wont be 
directing Aviva to compensate Mr B the costs he incurred in respect of this.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that based on what Ive seen so far in this case, 
and if Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt done so already;
Pay £500 compensation. Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
For clarity, its for Mr B to decide if he wants to liaise with Aviva to arrange 
monitoring in order to move his claim forwards, or to accept a cash settlement 
based on Avivas report as to the remedial works it considers to be required.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Aviva didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr B provided further comments. Ive summarised what I consider to be the key points:
Mr Bs opinion - that underpinning is required - is supported by the geo-technical 
engineer he hired, and the contractors he initially contacted to provide estimates.              
Mr B says he did not influence the contractors opinion.
Avivas geo-technical report doesnt make a finding as to the cause of the 
subsidence, and the arborist based their report on an assumption as opposed to their 
own or a geo-technical engineers findings. 
Avivas subsidence director didnt visit the property, and so Mr B disputes how much 
weight should be placed on their opinion.
Mr B says Aviva didnt offer to monitor movement until a year after the tree was removed, which he considers an unreasonable length of time to wait. 
Mr B would like a cash settlement, based on Avivas most recent costings, to enable 
him to appoint a contractor to complete the superstructure repairs to his property. 
Mr B is agreeable to further monitoring so long as Aviva agree to underpinning the 
property and any further structural cosmetic repairs should it come to light there has 
been further movement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Mr Bs comments, my decision remains the same - that Aviva offered a 
reasonable solution in offering to monitor his property in order to see if removing the cherry 
tree provided a lasting and effective repair. Ill explain why.
Aviva asked Mr B, prior to the claim being opened, to obtain opinions from building 
contractors as to whether subsidence had occurred. Mr B said the contractors opinions were 
not influenced by him  which I accept. However, I dont think the quotes support Mr Bs 
position as they only detail what the contractors deem an appropriate remedy, as opposed to 
identifying the cause of the subsidence - which is whats in dispute here. So, Im not 
persuaded they prove underpinning is the only solution. 
Mr B mentioned discrepancies in Avivas reporting and raised concerns about the level of 
investigation it undertook. I addressed this as part of my provisional decision, explaining that 
as there are differing expert opinions, this is finely balanced case. And its for this reason I 
recommended Mr B liaise with Aviva to arrange monitoring so that it can be determined 
whether removing the cherry tree has provided a lasting and effective repair.
Aviva has recognised that its service fell short at times and has agreed to pay £500 
compensation to reflect this  as recommended by our investigator. While I acknowledge Mr 
Bs frustration with the service Aviva has provided, Im satisfied this compensation fairly 
reflects the difficulties hes experienced.
Mr B has requested Aviva pay a cash settlement to allow him to complete the remedial 
works to his property. But hes asked for this in conjunction with monitoring. I appreciate Mr 
B would like his property repaired but it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Aviva to pay a cash 
settlement  which would be a full and final settlement - and then expect it to carry out 
remedial works should monitoring reveal further movement. 
I note Mr B is agreeable to monitoring if, should it reveal further movement, Aviva underpins 
his property. But I dont consider it fair to ask this of Aviva before monitoring has taken place. 
It would be unreasonable to suggest remedial action without first knowing if theres been 
movement, and if there has, what has caused it. 
So as set out in my provisional decision  Mr B needs to decide if he wants to liaise with 
Aviva to arrange monitoring  after which Aviva would need to set out how it intends to settle 
his claim. Or Mr B can accept a cash settlement in respect of the remedial repairs required 
to his property. But this would be in full and final settlement of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to;Pay £500 compensation, if it hasnt already done so. Aviva Insurance 
Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Its for Mr B to decide if he wants to liaise with Aviva to arrange monitoring in order to 
move his claim forwards or, accept a cash settlement based on Avivas report as to the 
remedial works required to repair his property. A cash settlement would be in in full and 
final settlement of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman