DRN-3270035
The complaint
The Trustees of the PI Trust (referred to as the Trust or A) complain, with the help of their 
IFA, that the advice Barclays Bank UK PLC gave them to invest in an Offshore bond was 
unsuitable.
What happened
In its response to the complaint Barclays accepted that the Trustees should not have been 
advised to invest in an offshore bond, although it said the underlying investments within the 
bond were suitable.
It said that it was willing to consider reimbursing the Trust for the difference between the 
Income Tax paid on the offshore bond and the Capital Gains Tax (CGT) that would have 
been payable if the Trustees had been advised to invest in an onshore bond instead. It 
asked for information from the Trustees accountant so an amount could be agreed and said 
it would consider reimbursing reasonable professional costs.
 
It said it wouldnt reimburse the advice fee. Its position was it was only the advice to invest 
by way of an offshore bond that was unsuitable, not the advice to invest in the Advisory 
portfolio itself. It said the fee payable would have been higher if the advice had been to 
invest in the Advisory portfolio to be held onshore.
The Trustees referred the complaint to us because they didnt agree with the proposed 
redress offered by Barclays. In short, on behalf of the Trustees the IFA said that Barclays 
should:
Refund the wrapper charges, as already agreed by Barclays
Meet the full Income Tax liability on the basis that if the investment had been in a 
General Investment Account (GIA), as it should have been the CGT liability would 
have been managed annually.
Refund the initial advice fee of £15,300 as the Trust should not have to pay for the 
wrong advice.
As ongoing suitability wasnt confirmed since inception of the offshore bond Barclays 
should refund all advice fees.

One of our investigators considered the complaint and corresponded with Barclays regarding 
redress. Barclays confirmed that it would refund all the bond providers monthly fees and 
provided a figure to include interest but less tax.
The investigator provided his opinion setting out the steps Barclays had agreed to take as a 
result of having provided unsuitable advice, which he identified as follows:
Refund the extra tax payable as a result of the investment being placed offshore 
along with the reasonable costs involved in calculating the amount due.
Refund the charges incurred as a result of the bond being held offshore in the sum of 
which it had at £13,836.73.
Pay £500 for the inconvenience caused.
The investigator noted that the Trustees thought Barclays should pay the initial advice fee. 
He said that if Barclays hadnt advised that the investment should be held in an offshore 
bond the fees payable would have been higher. He said our role is to try and return the Trust 
to the position it would have been in if Barclays hadnt got things wrong, not to a better 
position.
The investigator said the redress that Barclays had offered was fair and reasonable and in 
line with what our service would award.
The IFA responded and said the Trustees accepted the refund of charges and the £500 for 
the inconvenience caused. With regard to the repayment of tax, she said that she had 
previously contacted us and asked us to ask Barclays for the SEDOL codes for the funds the 
Trust was invested in, as without the codes it wasnt possible to carry out the necessary tax 
calculations.
The IFA also said that the Trustees still thought that the initial advice fee should be repaid by 
Barclays. She said at no point had they been told that there was usually a fee of 3% or that 
this had been waived in lieu of the advice fee actually paid. She said it could be argued that 
if they had been told they had to pay a fee of 3% they might not have gone ahead. 
The IFA said that whilst Barclays said this was what they normally charge then surely they 
cant apply their usual practices retrospectively when the clients were never told what this 
practice was?
Barclays subsequently was able to provide three out of four SEDOL codes that the Trustees 
had asked for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted it shouldnt have advised the Trustees to invest in an offshore bond, 
but the Trustees have not agreed with what Barclays has suggested by way of redress. 
Specifically, they think that Barclays should repay the advice fee that was paid in addition to 
what it has already put forward to redress the Trust.
I understand why the Trustees feel it is appropriate that the fee is repaid, given Barclays has 
accepted it provided unsuitable advice. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to ask it to do so for reasons I will explain.
The purpose of redress is to put the Trust as far as possible back in the position it would 
have been in but for the unsuitable advice, as the investigator referred to in his opinion. So, 
what I need to do is consider what would have happened if Barclays hadnt provided 
unsuitable advice.
In short, it would only be appropriate for me to ask Barclays to repay the advice fee if I 
thought the Trust would not have had to pay a fee but for the wrong advice  or would have 
paid a lower fee, in which case I could award part repayment of the advice fee. 
It is not part of my role to sanction or penalise Barclays in some way for what it got wrong, or 
to ask it to repay the fee simply on the basis it shouldnt receive any benefit from having 
provided unsuitable advice.
The Wealth Planning Report that Barclays sent to the Trustees, wherein it advised investing 
£780,000 into an Offshore Investment Bond, said that the Trustees had opted to pay for the advice by way of commission rather than by fee. 
I note that the IFA has referred to the commission of £15,300 that Barclays has referred to 
and which the Trust agreed to is subsequently referred to in the report as the initial advice 
fee. The payment was by way of commission paid to Barclays by the provider and deducted 
from the amount invested rather than a fee that was paid directly by the Trustees to 
Barclays. However, the payment was still for the advice, and I dont think anything turns on it 
being referred to as an advice fee in the report.
Barclays has said that its normal fee for such advice would have been 3% of the amount 
invested. The IFA has said that the Trustees were never made aware of this. I acknowledge 
that I have seen nothing in the documents provided to the Trustees that makes reference to 
Barclays charging 3%. I accept that they may not have been made aware of this figure being 
its normal fee. Arguably there was no reason for it to mention this fee given it was happy to 
accept a lesser amount by way of commission.
I note the IFA has said that it could be argued, that if the Trustees had been told the advice 
fee was 3%, they would not have gone ahead. Insofar as it is being suggested that the 
Trustees may have decided not to invest at all, then I dont think this is likely. They went to 
Barclays on the basis they thought the money currently being held in a bank account should 
be invested instead and there is no reason to think they wouldnt have invested at all if they 
were told a fee of 3% was payable.
Insofar as what is being suggested is that the Trustees may have decided not to use 
Barclays and instead would have gone elsewhere, I have the following comments.
Firstly, whilst I acknowledge what Barclays has said about its usual fee, I dont think there is 
any way of knowing what fee might have been paid if it had provided suitable advice. It 
seems to me quite possible Barclays could have agreed to less than 3% in any event, as it 
did with the advice it did give. 
Secondly, if Barclays had sought to charge 3%, whilst it is possible this could have led the 
Trustees to seek advice from another firm, I cant say it is more likely than not they would 
have done so.
Thirdly, and I think most importantly, even if I had been persuaded the Trustees would have 
sought advice from a different firm, the Trust would still have paid a fee for that advice. 
In the circumstances, given they would have had to pay a fee in any event and the award I 
make is to put the Trust back in the position it would have been in - as far as possible  but 
for the unsuitable advice, there is no basis for me saying that the Trust should get back the 
fee paid to Barclays.
If I had been persuaded that the Trustees would have gone elsewhere for advice it is 
possible that they could have found a firm that would have charged less than the £15,300 
paid. But there is no way of knowing if they would have gone to a firm that charged less. Im 
mindful that the amount they paid only amounts to around 2% of the money invested, which I 
dont think is unreasonable. 
I acknowledge that Barclays have received a fee for advice that it accepts was unsuitable, 
insofar as the recommendation to invest in an offshore bond is concerned. But this isnt a 
basis for me asking it to repay the fee paid by the Trust when this would put the Trust in a 
better position than it would have been in if suitable advice had been given.Putting things right
The redress which Barclays has offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and it 
should do what it has agreed to do. In short, it should, insofar as it has not already done so, 
pay to the Trust:
The difference between the tax paid as a result of the unsuitable advice and what 
would have been otherwise paid, together with the Trusts reasonable costs in relation 
to the calculation of the amount payable.
The ongoing charges paid by the Trust for the offshore bond calculated in the sum of 
£13,836.73.
£500 for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay the Trust, also referred to as A, 
the redress it has agreed to which I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Trustees of A 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman