DRN-3923483
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Experian Limited reporting a disputed default on his credit file.
What happened
Both parties are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
A debt purchaser, which Ill refer to as L, are reporting a defaulted debt on Mr Ms file. Mr M 
disputes the entry and the address its linked to.
After an initial delay, Experian raised a dispute on Mr Ms behalf. However, L confirmed that 
the information was correct, and L did not consent to changing or removing the entry. 
Experian explained they couldnt change the entry without Ls consent. They offered Mr M 
£25 compensation for customer service issues.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Mr M would need to take his dispute directly to L.
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that Experian do not own the data on Mr Ms credit file. Its the companies 
who log the data  like Mr Ms lenders and utility companies  who own the data. So here, 
its L who owns the entry about the disputed default. And L are responsible for that entry. 
Experian are not allowed to change or remove that entry without Ls permission.
When a customer queries an entry, Id expect Experian to raise that dispute with the data 
owner on the customers behalf. And I can see Experian did that here. But L confirmed the 
information was correct. They said the address was the one Mr M had given them back in 
March 2022, and Mr M previously confirmed hed been paying rent at that address. The 
account is otherwise in Mr Ms correct personal details. L did not consent to the entry being 
changed or removed, so Experian were not allowed to change or remove it.
If Mr M wants this credit file entry to be changed, then like our investigator said, he really 
does need to dispute it with L directly. Experian have broadly done what they could. Its L 
who are responsible for the entry.
Ive also considered how Experian handled things for Mr M. I can see there was an initial 
delay in Experian raising the dispute for him, and I understand they caused some confusion 
because of a typo in the disputed address in one of their emails to us. Mr M also said they 
didnt respond to his emails, though according to Experians records they did, and when we 
asked Mr M to provide the emails that werent responded to he didnt send us any.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to put right 
their error and the impact it had. In terms of the amounts, its worth bearing in mind that 
were not here to punish businesses or to issue large fines. Ive also taken into account that 
Experian otherwise handled the main issue appropriately here. We have guidelines about 
what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent with those. Taking 
everything into account, I think the £25 Experian offered is fair to put things right, including 
accounting for any emails they may have overlooked.
If Mr M wishes to pursue the dispute further, he can complain to L directly. Then if hes not 
satisfied with Ls response, he can ask our service for help as a separate case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Experian Limited have already made a fair offer to 
resolve this complaint. They should pay Mr M the £25 compensation, if theyve not done so 
already. I do not make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman