DRN-2038004
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took out a single loan for £500 from Cash4unow in January 2019. The loan was 
repayable by six monthly instalments of around £155. Mr M fell behind with his loan 
repayments, but eventually repaid the loan in full.
Mr M believes that if Cash4unow had carried out proper checks, it would have realised that 
he had multiple loans at the time, and was in a financially poor position, so it shouldnt have 
lent to him.
Cash4unow didnt accept that it had been wrong to make the loan. But it offered to make an 
ex gratia payment of £25 to Mr M. Mr M wasnt happy with Cash4unows response and 
brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought that Cash4unow should have built a more detailed picture of Mr Ms 
financial situation before deciding whether to lend. And having looked at Mr Ms bank 
statements from around the time of the loan, she thought that proper checks would have 
revealed that Mr M had a large number of payday loans outstanding when he applied to 
borrow from Cash4unow. So it should have realised that Mr M would be unlikely to be able 
to repay the loan sustainably. So the adjudicator said Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Cash4unow didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cash4Unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cash4Unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Its important for me to start by saying that Cash4Unow was required to establish whether 
Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, and for broadly similar reasons.
Cash4Unow did some checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income, 
and his normal expenditure. And it carried out a credit check. 
Based purely on the income and expenditure that Mr M told Cash4unow about, I can see 
that the loan repayments would have appeared to be relatively easily affordable for him. But 
Ive seen a summary of the credit check, and I think it should have caused some concerns to 
Cash4unow.
The results of the credit check showed that Mr M had 15 active accounts, of which hed 
opened 11 in the preceding six months. Six of those were shown as short-term loans, and 
two of those short-term loans were still active. Mr M also had a significant amount 
outstanding in longer-term loans. I think that the overall picture from the results of the credit 
check should have prompted Cash4unow to wonder whether Mr Ms financial situation was 
as healthy as the information hed provided suggested. And I think that at the very least it 
should have asked him some very specific questions about any other short-term loans he 
may have had outstanding at the time.
Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements from around the time he borrowed from Cash4unow 
to see what its likely that better checks would have shown. I can see that Mr M had taken 
out a loan with another short-term lender the day before he borrowed from Cash4unow. And 
he made eight repayments on short-term loans with seven other lenders over the course of a 
week after taking the loan from Cash4unow. 
In response to the adjudicators view, Cash4unow commented that it didnt accept that 
retrospective analysis of a bank statement is an appropriate method of fairly considering the 
merits of a lending decision. But the statements provide a fuller picture than Cash4unows 
credit search of Mr Ms true financial position. And they reveal information about Mr Ms short-term borrowing history which I think Cash4unow would have discovered if it had 
carried out proportionate checks. 
On the basis of that information I dont think it would have been reasonable to conclude that 
Mr M was likely to be able to repay the loan sustainably. I think Cash4unow should have 
realised that it was more likely than not that he was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying the loans hed taken with other lenders was leaving in his finances. So 
Cash4unow shouldnt have made the loan to Mr M.
Putting things right
To put things right, Cash4unow should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr M paid on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year to each of the amounts refunded, from 
the dates they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. Cash4unow 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) 
to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman