DRN-2121413
The complaint
Ms H complains about customer service she received from her insurer, BIG Warranties Ltd. 
She wanted to delay a regular payment because she was short of funds, but BIG wouldnt 
agree to delay, and then wouldnt agree to refund it.
What happened
Ms H has a policy with BIG Warranties. She pays monthly. She paid initially by card, and so 
her payments are taken not by direct debit but by continuing authority on her bank card.
Her payments are taken at the start of each month. On 1 April 2020, when the payment was 
taken, Ms H says that left her without enough money in her account for food and other 
expenses. She called BIG Warranties to ask for the payment to be refunded and delayed. 
She says someone promised the payment would be refunded, but this didnt happen.
Around the same time, Ms H also spoke to her bank to try and get the payment refunded 
that way. Ive dealt with a complaint about the bank separately, so I wont say any more 
about that here.
Ms H then called back to complain. Following this call, BIG Warranties told Ms H it would be 
cancelling her policy. It gave her 14 days notice, though said it would honour current claims.
Ms H says its not fair her policy has been cancelled. Shes vulnerable and has a mental 
health condition and cant be left without cover  especially at a time like this. And she says 
the agents she spoke to were rude and unhelpful and left her feeling very upset. She also 
says that BIG Warranties didnt make agreed reasonable adjustments in how it handled her 
complaint.
BIG Warranties said that Ms H had missed the payments due at the start of January, 
February and March. In March it had offered to change the payment date to assist Ms H, but 
Ms H didnt agree to a change at that point. The April payment was taken, but then Ms H 
rang in to explain about the problems it had caused her. 
BIG Warranties then agreed to refund the payment as a gesture of goodwill. But the bank 
details had been taken down wrongly so Ms H didnt receive at first  though BIG Warranties 
then sent it again using the correct address.
BIG Warranties said that Ms H had called up often, and had been abusive to its staff. It had 
tried to work with her, but it felt the relationship had broken down and it had a duty to its staff 
 particularly in light of the pandemic, where staff are working at home alone with less 
support than usual. It shouldnt have told her the policy was being cancelled immediately. 
But it had then given her 14 days notice of cancellation  but it was prepared to extend the 
notice period until the end of May to give Ms H more time, as long as she made Mays 
payment. And it offered £35 compensation for telling her the policy would be cancelled 
straightaway.
Our investigator thought that BIG Warranties had, overall, acted reasonably. He noted that it 
was allowed to cancel the policy with 14 days notice. He agreed that some of Ms Hs calls 
had been challenging for BIG Warranties staff to deal with. But he thought that one call 
handler in particular had been confrontational and unsympathetic. He thought BIG 
Warranties should pay a further £100 compensation.
Neither party was happy with that, so the case comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Its important to recognise that Ms H is vulnerable. Im sorry to hear of the difficulties she has 
and Ive taken that into account in deciding whats fair.
Its clear that Ms H had been having some difficulty, in recent months, in paying the monthly 
cost of her policy. BIG Warranties had given her the option of changing the payment date to 
a different day of the month, but she hadnt taken it up on that.
The April payment did go through, though, and the money was taken out of Ms Hs bank 
account. But she said that she couldnt in fact afford it, and the payment had left her without 
money for food or other essentials.
Im pleased to see that BIG Warranties offered to refund the payment and collect it again 
later in the month. Although the payment was due on 1 April, this shows to me that it was 
willing to work to try and help Ms H  as Id expect. Its unfortunate that there was an error in 
taking down her account number, but the payment was back in her account within three days 
(and Im aware from her complaint against her bank that her account was in credit at this 
point). 
There was a lot of contact between Ms H and BIGs staff around this time  several calls a 
day for several days. Ms H was clearly very upset at her situation  and angry too. Its fair to 
say that BIGs staff found these calls difficult and challenging, and for the most part they 
handled them carefully and sympathetically. I appreciate Ms H doesnt agree about that, but 
I think her frustrations were in part because the call handlers couldnt do what she wanted as 
quickly as she wanted. I dont think she was treated unfairly or unsympathetically, for the 
most part. But I also agree with the investigator that one call handler, the first one Ms H 
spoke to, could have handled things better. 
Our investigator recommended £100 compensation for this. BIG Warranties says thats 
unfair, taken in the wider context of everything that happened  including the history of Ms 
Hs dealings with the company. It says it has learned from this experience and enhanced its 
staff training. Im pleased to hear that. But I do think some additional compensation is 
warranted. These calls were at the start of this incident  and instead of possibly reassuring 
Ms H and calming the situation, they escalated it. I do think the additional £100 
compensation is fair in all the circumstances.
Ive looked at the terms of the policy. It allows for cancellation with 14 days notice. I note 
that since the start of 2020 Ms H was struggling to pay the monthly premium, suggesting it 
might not be affordable for her any more. And dealing with that every month  especially in 
April, was clearly causing Ms H distress. I also note that Ms H had threatened several times 
to cancel the policy herself. At the same time, her calls to BIG Warranties were increasingly 
difficult and challenging for its staff, especially with current working arrangements, and it is 
legitimate for that to be a factor in BIGs thinking. 
Taking all that into account, I think it was reasonable for BIG Warranties to decide that the 
relationship between them had broken down and should be brought to an end  and fair for it 
to give Ms H an extended notice period to find cover elsewhere. It shouldnt have told her the 
policy was to be cancelled immediately  though it didnt in fact do that, and it continued to 
accept and deal with claims in the cancellation period. I think thats fair.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, I think it would be fair for BIG Warranties to pay £100 compensation, in 
addition to the £35 it has already offered.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct BIG 
Warranties to pay Ms H £135 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman