DRN-2193689
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the service he received from Graham Sykes Limited in respect of his 
Landlords Legal Expenses insurance policy, resulting in his claim being declined.
What happened
Mr F owns a residential property which he lets out. He took out a Landlords Legal Expenses 
policy with a rent guarantee through Graham Sykes, an insurance broker. The policy 
covered him for legal costs and unpaid rent up to the policy limits in the event that the tenant 
was in breach of the tenancy agreement.
Mr F made a claim under the policy after a tenant left him with arrears of rent and repair 
costs. His insurer rejected the claim. It said Mr F hadnt complied with the condition in the 
policy about credit referencing. Mr F thought that was Graham Sykes fault because hed 
asked it to check with the insurer about the reference hed received for the tenant. He said it 
had failed to do so.
Graham Sykes said it had checked with Mr Fs letting agent whod said that the tenant met 
the requirements of the policy regarding referencing. Based on that, it hadnt thought any 
further action was required.
Mr F brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think it 
was the fault of Graham Sykes if the letting agent had given it incorrect information.
As Mr F didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs policy included a tenancy checklist setting out the checks that had to be carried out 
before a new tenancy was entered into. They included a credit check showing that the tenant 
or guarantor could pay the rent. Underneath it added:
Please note: If any doubts as to the integrity or financial standing of the tenant are 
expressed in any tenant reference or other documentation or there is a lack of response to 
any enquiry, you must obtain our approval prior to commencement of the letting.
 
A family member helped Mr F with the letting. She made the letting agent aware of the policy 
requirements. She asked Graham Sykes to check that the insurer was happy with the 
references, saying that the credit reference on the proposed tenant had raised issues. 
Graham Sykes office manager asked Mr Fs letting agent to let him know what issues had 
been raised with regard to the tenants credit reference. The letting agent replied that there 
were no issues with credit and the tenants two guarantors had passed the credit rating.
In response Graham Sykes asked the letting agent to confirm that the tenant met the policy 
requirements and set out those requirements.
The letting agent said the only things she didnt have were a second form of ID which she 
could get and a utility or bank statement which again she could get.
Graham Sykes replied:
Based on the information you have provided, everything looks to conform with the tenancy 
check list.
The only outstanding items are - second form of ID and utility or bank statement.
The letting agent replied that shed requested those items and expected them later that day. 
Mr F and his relative was copied in on that email chain.
I think Graham Sykes was entitled to rely on what it had been told by Mr Fs letting agent. I 
wouldnt expect an insurance broker to challenge a letting agent on whether or not a 
prospective tenant had passed referencing. The policy requirements were clear enough so 
that the letting agent could be assumed to understand what was needed for a tenant to pass 
referencing. It wasnt up to Graham Sykes to check that the letting agent had done its job 
properly. Based on what it had been told, I think it was reasonable for Graham Sykes to 
have thought that there was no need to seek approval from Mr Fs insurers in respect of the 
tenant.
It follows that I dont think Graham Sykes is responsible for the loss that Mr F later suffered 
as a result of the tenants default.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman