DRN-3711676
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains about the service it received from HSBC UK 
Bank Plc when trying to apply to the bank for a loan under the Recovery Loan Scheme. 
Ds director, Mr R, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
Mr R approached HSBC on Ds behalf on 17 January 2022, submitting an online request to 
apply for a loan under the government-backed Recovery Loan Scheme.
The request was passed to a relationship manager (RM) to take forward, who contacted 
Mr R on 28 January to ask for Ds latest set of accounts and an overview of the companys 
loan requirements. This was information Mr R said hed already submitted within his online 
application, but emailed it over to the RM that day to move matters forward.
Mr R didnt hear anything from HSBC over the days and weeks that followed. He made a 
number of attempts to contact the RM to no avail, ultimately leading to a complaint being 
raised in mid-February 2022. 
HSBC responded to Mr R on 24 February, acknowledging that the level of service hed 
received had fallen below the standard he was entitled to expect. It explained that its online 
system hadnt been working, hence the RMs request for information that Mr R had already 
sent. The RM had subsequently been out of the office, but the bank assured Mr R that the 
application would be followed up by a colleague. To put things right, HSBC apologised and 
paid £50 to compensate D for any inconvenience caused.
Mr R remained unhappy, so he asked us to look into things. While noting that there had 
been no direct financial loss to the company, he said that hed wasted about ten hours on 
the application  and had still been left unable to access the government-backed support 
that was purportedly on offer. He highlighted that he billed his time at just under £60 an hour, 
and thought the bank should pay compensation at that rate.
After the matter was escalated to us, HSBC reviewed the matter afresh and offered to pay D 
a further £50 by way of compensation. Our investigator thought that represented a fair 
resolution to the matter, but Mr R didnt wish to accept it. So the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has accepted, there were obvious shortcomings in how it handled Ds loan 
application. The application was made on 17 January but wasnt progressed in any 
meaningful way over the month that followed, despite Mr R providing the bank with the 
information it needed and his several attempts to prompt some progress.
After that month had passed, Mr R raised a complaint. So it is that period alone to which this 
complaint relates. If Mr R is unhappy with any subsequent delays or broader handling of the 
application by the bank, hed need to raise a further complaint with HSBC so that it has the 
opportunity to investigate and address any such matters before were able to get involved.
Mr R has described making a number of attempts to contact HSBC over the month in 
question that all, ultimately, proved unsuccessful in prompting any progress. A month was 
wasted in progressing Ds loan application one way or another  a wholly avoidable delay 
caused by the banks errors. This is predominantly because the RM was away from the 
office, with the matter not being picked up in his absence. 
Its right that D is compensated for any impact it suffered as a result of HSBCs errors. By 
Mr Rs own admission, the company didnt suffer a direct financial loss. Hes explained that 
he was only looking for a quote from HSBC at the time, with a view to shopping around for 
the lowest interest rate. Its unclear to me if D wouldve gone on to take out a loan with 
HSBC, even if things had progressed more quickly. D also remained free to enquire and 
apply elsewhere, with at least the former appearing to have been Mr Rs intention anyway. 
Ive also noted Mr Rs understandable concern that HSBC lost the information he provided 
when initiating the application online. HSBC says that this information wasnt retrievable by 
the RM due to a system issue. There is no suggestion that the information has ended up 
with any third parties and Ive not seen any impact to the company beyond Mr R having to 
email the information across to the RM subsequently.
It is, therefore, a matter only of compensating D for the avoidable inconvenience it was 
caused by the poor service it received. Mr R has described making numerous attempts  
through text message, email and phone calls  to reach the RM and drive some progress 
with the application. Some of these are evidenced by HSBCs records while others are not, 
but Ive no reason to doubt Mr Rs recollections. Clearly this additional correspondence put D 
to some inconvenience, with Mr R as its director being taken away from the companys day-
to-day affairs for longer than ought to have been necessary. I think the revised amount of 
£100 is fair compensation for this.
I appreciate Mr R feels this doesnt go far enough, primarily as he has calculated an 
alternative amount based on the amount of time he believes he spent on the matter and the 
hourly rate he charges for his professional services. We dont typically award compensation 
based on units of time or a complainants hourly rate  rather we look at the overall impact 
that the financial businesss mistake had. And while I accept that dealing with this matter 
wouldve taken Mr R away from Ds day-to-day activities, Ive not seen that it caused a loss 
of business such that a separate award for financial loss ought to be made. Id also highlight 
that the amount Ive awarded doesnt factor in any stress or upset that Mr R was caused 
personally, as under our rules it is the company rather than its director that it is the eligible 
complainant and to whom we can award compensation. And a limited company cannot 
suffer any emotional impact. So while Ive taken into account everything Mr R has told us, I 
think that the total of £100 compensation that HSBC has now offered to pay D is a fair way 
to put things right.
Ive also noted that Mr R has made a number of points requesting what I would broadly 
describe as disciplinary action against HSBC, requesting at different points that we instruct it 
to make changes to how it operates and that we reprimand and penalise it for the errors its 
made. We arent the industry regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  and 
do not have the power to direct businesses to amend their broader business practices, or 
fine them when things have gone wrong. Rather we deal with individual disputes between 
customers and their financial service providers  and, where we think things have gone wrong, have the power to tell the business what to do to put the situation right. Ive set out 
what I think is a fair way to resolve Ds complaint about HSBC having considered the 
individual circumstances of the dispute  in keeping with our role and remit. Mr R is free to 
contact the FCA should he wish to do so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank PLC to pay D compensation of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman