DRN-1944021
 
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way A J Bell Management Limited handled the transfer of his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) to his new SIPP provider. He says due to delays caused 
by A J Bell, hes lost out financially and has been caused stress.
What happened
Mr B had an execution only SIPP with A J Bell. This means that A J Bell didnt provide 
Mr B with any advice, but instead acted upon his instructions. Mr Bs SIPP contained a cash 
fund, an investment account and off-panel investments held with four different companies. 
After advice from his financial adviser (FA), Mr B decided to move his SIPP from A J Bell 
to another SIPP administrator, to be invested in a new SIPP. Mr B said hed been dis-
satisfied with the service hed received from A J Bell over the preceding two years. 
The off-panel investments were to be transferred in-specie, so that meant they would 
remain invested throughout the process. 
On 15 March 2018, the new SIPP administrator, who I will refer to as Company A, 
notified A J Bell, that Mr B wished to transfer his SIPP. On 26 March 2018, AJ Bell 
sent the relevant paper work to be completed and signed to Mr Bs registered FA. Mr 
B says A J Bell said in late March that it hadnt received Mr Bs application to 
transfer. However, Ive not been told that; A J Bell seem to accept the application 
was received on 15 March 2018.
On 26 March 2018, AJ Bell told Mr Bs FA, that their current process was to transfer the 
cash in the SIPP across, once all the transfers were complete.
On 24 April 2018, Mr Bs FA asked A J Bell what Mr B would be charged to transfer 
out. Im told the requested information was provided later that same day. 
A J Bell received Mr Bs completed transfer discharge paperwork back on 25 June 2018. A 
J Bell says it initiated the transfer process later that same day. In between Mr B first 
deciding to transfer, and the discharge paperwork being sent back, I understand Mr B was 
looking into a new SIPP deal being offered via A J Bell.
On 6 July 2018, A J Bell forwarded on the investment account closure form signed by Mr 
B to the SIPP provider. It also asked Mr B to sign four in-specie off-panel transfer 
instruction forms to make the transfers. 
The funds (around £42,000) from the closed SIPP investment account were received 10 
days later, on 16 July 2018. These were placed into Mr Bs cash fund, to wait for the in-
specie transfers completing. 
Signed copies of the in- specie transfer forms were received on 19 July 2018 and sent off 
to the relevant companies the same day. They were sent to the company addresses held 
on file for these companies, by A J Bell. 
On 23 August 2018, Company A phoned A J Bell asking for an update on the transfers. A 
J Bell said it told Company A it had contacted that four off-panel investment providers. It 
provided Company A with details of each of these investments. Mr B said he was also 
contacted around this time about his SIPP, which added to his stress levels. 
On 24 August 2018, Company A contacted A J Bell by email to provide an update on what 
it had learnt, having spoken to the four companies concerned. Mr B said Company A had 
to chase things up because A J Bell had made no progress. Having received this 
information from Company A, on 28 August 2018, A J Bell contacted two of the off- panel 
investment providers at different addresses and emailed another with additional transfer 
paperwork, as per that companys requirements. 
In September 2018, Mr B complained to A J Bell about how it had handled the transfer 
process. It agreed to waive its transfer fee, because of delays in the documents reaching 
the investment providers. It later agreed to also waive its in specie transfer out charge. In 
total it waived fees of £360, including VAT. 
Mr B says in October 2018, when his adviser asked how much was held in cash, he was 
told no funds were held in cash. He said this was clearly wrong as he had around £81,000 
in his cash fund before money was also transferred into it from the closed investment 
account. Following a request from Mr Bs FA on 15 October 2018, Mr Bs cash fund of 
£122,816.47 was transferred across to Company A on 22 October 2018. 
Mr Bs final off-panel transfer completed on 29 November 2018.
Mr B didnt accept A J Bells offer of settlement (waiving fees) and referred his complaint 
to our service. Our investigator looked into it. She said, overall, she took the view that 
there had been 31 days of delay caused by A J Bells actions or inactions. But, she 
concluded, that A J Bells offer of settlement was a fair and reasonable one in the 
circumstances, and she wouldnt be asking A J Bell to take any further action.
Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicators view and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, Mr Bs complaint comes to me to consider. Mr B said in response, in 
summary:
there were further delays caused by A J Bell between March and June 2018. The 
information was not just turned around the next day on 25 April 2018;
his cash funds of £122,816.47 should have been transferred three months earlier, 
in accordance with his wishes;
he cannot accept that a cash sum of this amount wouldnt attract interest (even if 
held on a short-term account attracting 1.5% interest), more if invested; and
AJ Bells service fell far below what can be expected of a financial services 
provider.
Mr B also asked us to investigate why his cash fund was not invested in an 
interest-bearing account prior to transfer. Our investigator said, having looked at 
the terms and conditions, she didnt think it inappropriate that the dis-invested 
money from      Mr Bs investment account was paid into his SIPP cash fund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the view reached by our investigator. I therefore do not 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Starting the transfer process
A J Bell received the transfer request from Company A in March 2018. It e-mailed back 
saying that in order to proceed with the transfer, some forms had to be completed and 
signed by Mr B. The transfer process could not begin until A J Bell received these forms. 
The signed transfer discharge paperwork was received by A J Bell on 25 June 2018, 
therefore this is the earliest the transfer could have started.
Mr B says that in between times, A J Bell didnt provide his advisers with information in 
a timely way about the transfer charges and the new SIPP deal. I think the information 
about the transfer charges was provided in a timely way; the next day. 
I understand that during this period Mr B was discussing with his adviser whether he 
still wanted to transfer, or whether the new SIPP deal via A J Bell was a viable 
alternative. So, I cant reasonably hold A J Bell responsible for the transfer process not 
being initiated sooner.  
Cash fund
In the email to Mr Bs FA of 26 March 2018, A J Bell explained their current process was 
to wait for the assets to be transferred. It said:
 
the final part of the transfer will be to transfer any cash held. 
As our investigator pointed out, this is not an usual practice, as it allows any charges to be 
collected once everything is complete. So, I cant see that this was an unfair or 
unreasonable process to adopt. And I think Mr B was clearly told up front how the cash in 
his fund would be handled. 
As it turned out, due to the in-specie transfers, the transfer process wasnt a quick one. On 
15 October 2018, Mr Bs FA asked A J Bell, by email, whether the cash funds could be 
transferred to Mr Bs Company A account sooner, rather than waiting to the end. This was 
because Mr B wanted to invest these funds. A J Bell agreed, and within five working days, 
the cash had been  transferred.
As Ive said, I think A J Bell made it clear up front how the cash would be handled. It was 
open to Mr B to ask A J Bell not to follow its current process and pay the cash across 
sooner, which he did via his adviser in October 2018. A J Bell agreed to this request, and in 
my view acted in a timely way to transfer the cash fund across to the new SIPP account, 
without waiting for the in-specie transfers to complete. Given A Js Bells quick response, I 
think in all likelihood, had Mr B asked A J Bell sooner to transfer his cash fund, it probably 
wouldve. So, I cant see that Mr B has lost out because of anything that A J Bell did wrong 
or couldve done better here.
In-specie transfers
Some of the assets within Mr Bs SIPP were invested with off-panel investment partners. 
This meant that each of the four firms involved had to be contacted and arrangements 
made to comply with their process requirements, so that the transfers could be made to Mr Bs new SIPP account. 
I can understand Mr Bs concern that this was not a quick process. However, I cant see 
that he has lost out financially as a result of A J Bells handling of these in-specie 
transfers. They remained invested throughout. So, the value of each investment was the 
same, whether it was held in his old or new SIPP.
In terms of the delay, and the frustration caused waiting for the process to complete, I have 
considered how A J Bells failure to meet its own service standards may have contributed to 
this frustration. I can see that according to its own service standards, once the in-specie 
transfer request was sent to the other company, A J Bell aimed to chase it up every four 
weeks, until completion. Like our investigator, I dont think this timeframe was an 
unreasonable one, for chasing things up.  
Ive looked at whether A J Bell met its own service standards. I can see the signed in-
specie transfer forms were sent to the four companies on 19 July 2018. So, by rights, A J 
Bell should have followed these up four weeks later, on 16 August 2018. However, when 
Company A contacted A J Bell on 23 August 2018, it seems A J Bell hadnt yet followed 
things up. So, A J Bell hadnt met its own service standards here. Mr B said A J Bell only 
followed things up because Company A had contacted it to see what was happening. Mr B 
may or may not be right about that, but as our investigator explained, I can only consider 
the extent of the actual delay when considering the trouble and upset this caused, rather 
than what it mightve been, but for Company As intervention.
Two of the transfer requests were sent to wrong addresses. A J Bell said this was 
because the companies concerned had not updated their addresses on its systems. If 
thats right, I cant fairly hold A J Bell responsible for the added delay. If thats not the 
case, as the administrator of Mr Bs SIPP, I think it was reasonable to expect A J Bell to 
send the information to the right address. But as A J Bells offer of settlement 
acknowledges the delays in getting the paperwork to the off-panel investment providers, I 
dont think I need to decide this issue. Either way, once A J Bell became aware that the 
information needed to be sent to different addresses, I can see it acted promptly, sending 
the transfer paperwork to the appropriate offices. Overall, this led to things taking a little 
longer, but for the reasons explained previously, Mr B didnt lose out financially because of 
this, as the investments remained invested. 
Two of the four off-panel investment providers didnt process Mr Bs transfer request upon 
receipt of the transfer paperwork. I cant see that they informed A J Bell of this, at the time. 
Had A J Bell chased things up a week earlier, in line with its own service standards, it may 
have become aware of this situation sooner. Im told, Company A learnt of it, by speaking 
to the off- panel investment providers direct. Although A J Bell should have chased things 
up a week earlier, I cant fairly hold it responsible for the rest of the delay.
It seems one of the companies transferring in-specie needed to be chased up again, 
after the transfer request was re-sent on 28 August 2018. A J Bell didnt do this until six 
weeks had passed. So, two weeks after it should according to its own service standards.  
A J Bell also acknowledged it caused a delay of ten days with another of the transfers, 
when it queried a signature on the stock form. So, it seems, this transfer could have 
probably been completed earlier. 
Impact of the delays -financial loss
Our investigator thought that Mr Bs in specie transfers likely couldve been completed by 
29 October 2018, but for the delays that A J Bell was responsible for. I think this a reasonable conclusion to reach, based on the timeline of events. 
The cash was in fact transferred on 22 October 2018, before the in-specie transfers 
wouldve been completed, if there had been no delays. So, overall, I cant see that Mr B 
has lost out financially here. By departing from its current process, A J Bell has mitigated 
the impact of any loss Mr B might have suffered as a result of the delays.
As mentioned previously, the four in-specie transfers remained invested throughout, so 
there was no financial loss in relation to these.
Interest on the cash fund
Like our investigator, I think it was appropriate that Mr Bs dis-invested money 
from his investment account, was paid into his SIPP cash fund, to await the in-
specie transfers being completed. A J Bell was an execution only SIPP provider, 
and as far as I can see, it hadnt been provided with any different instructions in 
relation to these funds. Also, it seems, Mr B was already holding around £80,000 
in this cash fund, prior to the dis-invested funds being paid in.
Trouble and upset
Undoubtedly, Mr B has been caused some trouble and upset by A J Bells handling of his 
transfer to a new SIPP. Looked at overall, the issue left for me to decide is whether A J Bells 
offer of settlement, to waive the charges it has, is sufficient. In my view it is, for the reasons 
explained above. And I therefore make no further award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and make no further 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August  2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman