DRN-2338804
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) allowed transactions
to take place which took his account overdrawn and has led to charges being applied. Hes
also unhappy about the impact to his credit file.
What happened
Mr C was under the impression that if he tried to make a transaction on his account with
insufficient funds then the payment would be rejected. However, this wasnt the case. Mr C
made transactions without enough money in his account and incurred charges.
In February 2019 Mr C incurred charges totalling £60 for payments that were returned as
unpaid. These charges took his account from £2.90 in credit to £57.10 in debit. The following
month Mr C was debited £81 in fees for being overdrawn between 1 and 15 February. These
charges took his account further overdrawn by £138.10.
As a gesture of goodwill Clydesdale refunded the charges of £81. On 26 June £36 was
refunded but due to a banking error the remaining charges (£45) were not refunded until 22
July. The account balance at this time was £57.10.
Mr C is unhappy he received missed payment markers during this time  and hes unhappy
with all the negative information recorded on his credit file. Due to the banks error it offered
a small level of compensation totalling £10, which was then applied to his account to reduce
the balance to £47.10. Due to the outstanding balance, the account was closed. Clydesdale
said it added a £20 admin fee, this meant the debt increased to £67.10.
Mr C told Clydesdale he didnt pay the charges because he was under the impression his
account was on hold and he says he was told not to do anything with his account. Mr C was
also under the impression both sets of charges would be refunded.
Clydesdale issued a final response letter explaining they had refunded the charges of £81
and as all the information they reported to credit reference agencies was correct, they would
not be making any amendments to his credit file.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was unable to find a call where Clydesdale
told Mr C his account was on hold. Our investigator said the charges were applied in line
with the terms and conditions of the account and once Clydesdale were aware of Mr Cs
financial difficulties it treated him positively and sympathetically. He explained Clydesdale
offered the assistance of its Financial Care team and no charges had been applied since
March 2019. So he didnt think Clydesdale needed to do anything further.
Mr C didnt agree and said he wanted the missed payments to be removed from his credit
file. Although our investigator sympathised with Mr Cs situation, he said his credit file was
an accurate reflection of the account activity so he wouldnt be asking Clydesdale to remove
the missed payments. Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review.
In order to try and resolve the complaint informally I asked Clydesdale whether theyd be
prepared to write off the balance so that Mr C is no longer pursued for the debt and remove
the adverse information on his credit file.
I asked Clydesdale whether they were prepared to do this because Mr Cs account balance
was made up of charges and when it was defaulted the balance was relatively low.
Clydesdale agreed to both removing the debt and adverse information and theyve said this
has now been done.
When I contacted Mr C about the above he explained hed already paid £60 towards the
account balance so hed like this to be refunded. He said he wants an apology and
compensation given the length of time this has been going on. He also explained hed tried
to purchase an essential home item in a shop but this was declined and he felt embarrassed
about this.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2020, Ive included an extract of this below:
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been numerous calls between Clydesdale and Mr C and Ive listened carefully to
all of the call recordings provided. Its clear Mr C is very upset about what has happened and
has found this situation difficult. Hes explained multiple times about his mental health and
that he has memory loss. During these calls hes also explained how all of this has greatly
impacted him, particularly the adverse information on his credit file.
Mr C told Clydesdale he didnt pay the charges because he was under the impression his
account was on hold and he says he was told not to do anything with it. Mr C was also under
the impression both sets of charges would be refunded.
From the call recordings provided Ive not heard Clydesdale say this. This misunderstanding
couldve potentially been crossed wires  Clydesdale confirms itll be refunding the charges
and although the adviser was only talking about the charges of £81, I think there is a
possibility Mr C may have interpreted this differently, although I dont think this was due to
Clydesdale being unclear or misleading.
Mr C has said there are other call recordings and I understand he thinks these calls will
show Clydesdale told him not to make payments towards his account. Ive listened to all the
calls Clydesdale has provided although I appreciate this may not cover every conservation
which has taken place between Mr C and Clydesdale. However, Ive taken into account the
call recordings I do have along with the letters it sent Mr C to the address it held on file for
him. These letters explained there was an outstanding balance and asked him to make a
payment. So on balance I dont think Clydesdale wouldve told Mr C not to make a payment
into his account.
Although I fully appreciate the charges have been applied correctly to Mr Cs account, his
account balance was made up entirely of charges and the account was taken into credit
before the charges were applied. This debt did not include any spending Mr C made. In
addition to this the debit balance was relatively small (£47.10) when it was defaulted. So
taking all of this into account, I think its fair and reasonable that Clydesdale has agreed to
wipe the debt and remove the adverse information.
Mr C has said that he paid £60 towards the account but Clydesdale dont seem to have
received this payment. Its possible there may be some confusion here as Clydesdale
refunded the charges of £81 but said the charges of £60 remained and they asked Mr C to
pay off the balance of his account. However, as explained above Clydesdale have nowagreed to remove this debt which means Mr C wont be pursued for it. But if Mr C would like
to provide evidence that hes made this payment, I will review this before reaching a final
decision.
Mr C has said hed like an apology and compensation given the length of time this has been
going on and hes explained how he felt when he was unable to purchase something in
store. I understand he feels he shouldve been given a refund of the charges at the outset.
But as explained above these charges were applied correctly. I also cant see that Mr C was
told not to make any payments towards his account. So I dont think Clydesdale did anything
wrong in this respect. However, I do appreciate the account balance was purely made up of
charges and that when it defaulted the sum was relatively low. But Clydesdale has now
agreed to put this right by clearing the debt and removing the adverse information, so I dont
think it needs to do anything further. It follows that I wont be asking Clydesdale to provide
Mr C with an apology or any compensation.
I also note in Mr Cs previous correspondence, hes referred to wanting the account to be 
reopened but I wont be asking Clydesdale to re-open his account. This is because I dont 
think they did anything wrong in closing the account given that there was a debt outstanding.
Taking everything into account, I think Clydesdale have done enough by clearing Mr Cs
debt and removing the adverse information from his credit file so I wont be asking them to
do anything further.
Mr C responded to say that hed already paid money towards his account balance and said 
Clydesdale should refund this to him. Our investigator re-iterated the provisional decision but 
also explained if he had made a payment to the account and wanted this to be considered 
by the ombudsman, he needed to provide us with details. However, Mr C has not given us 
any further details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of Mr C providing us with further information, I also checked with Clydesdale 
to see whether Mr C had made a payment towards his account which I was unaware of. But 
based on Clydesdales records I cannot see that this has happened. 
As there is nothing further for me to consider, I have no reason to depart from my findings as 
set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Clydesdale Bank have said theyve written off the balance so Mr C is no longer pursued for 
it, and that theyve removed any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file relating to this. For 
the reasons I explained in my provisional decision I feel that this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I understand Clydesdale have 
already removed the adverse information from Mr Cs credit file and have cleared the debt 
so Mr C is no longer pursued for it. So Im not asking Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Yorkshire Bank) to do anything further than this.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman