DRN-3447300
Complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs N are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In March 2016 Mr and Mrs N were contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs N decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In August 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ns behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs N to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would not cost Mr and Mrs N a penny.
the system would be self-funding; and
the savings and income generated by the solar panels system (including the feed in 
tariff (FIT)) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs N or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for 
delays in complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs N and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view saying that their clients were told that the 
solar panel system would pay for itself within the loan term of 10 years. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs N could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs N and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs N say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs N were told that the cost of the system was £7,995. The quote 
sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was £7,995. The monthly payment was £52.57. After deducting a 
deposit of £4,000, the total amount of credit is £3,995 and goes on to show that the total 
amount payable would be £10,308.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,995, it 
would cost Mr and Mrs N more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest 
bearing loan. 
Mr and Mrs N have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the income and savings generated by the solar panel system 
including the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as the 
consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most 
likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs N could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs N could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £138.99, which results in an average monthly income of £11.58. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs N could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £172.81 which results in an average 
monthly saving of £14.40. And, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr 
and Mrs N the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £380.92. This is 
shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £52.57. As a result, Im not able to conclude that 
the consumers were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the income 
and savings generated by the solar panel system. 
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs N entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £52.57. For each year of the 10- year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £52.57, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs N could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. The table does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the 
consumers werent told that the income and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive 
carefully thought about the consumers version of events. However,  as Ive found that the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs N that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs N were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs N could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs N that the system would pay for 
itself by year 18, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs N. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2039.5 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs N FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2377.36 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs N 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs N entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs N 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
If Mr and Mrs N wish to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling, they should contact Shawbrook directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman