DRN-2789997
The complaint
Miss M has complained about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), saying she had to 
queue for too long at the branch during the pandemic.
What happened
Miss M says she had to wait a particularly long time on several occasions in order to get 
served at her branch during the pandemic.
NatWest explained they had to follow the Covid-19 guidelines and social distancing rules in 
order to keep customers and staff safe. They acknowledged this had made wait times 
longer.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found NatWest had not done anything wrong, not least given how important it was to keep 
everyone safe. Miss M didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I appreciate it wouldve been frustrating for Miss M to have waited significantly longer than 
normal on several occasions. But this pandemic was an unprecedented, global event, which 
affected banks and businesses all over the world.
Given the situation at hand, its natural that it would be harder to keep branches staffed and 
that branches wouldnt be able to serve as many people in person. Further, it was very 
important that NatWest kept customers and staff as safe as reasonably possible  and they 
had to follow the guidelines in place from the government and regulator, too.
That meant things like having much fewer people in the branch and keeping things socially 
distanced. And naturally, that also led to longer wait times for customers like Miss M. So 
while I can see why she would have been unhappy with how long she had to wait, NatWest 
have explained why that happened here  and I think that the reasons are fair in the 
circumstances.
So I cant see that NatWest did anything wrong here, and I dont think it would be fair for me 
to tell them to pay compensation in this particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman