DRN-3310884
The complaint
Mr N complains that One Sure Insurance Limited cancelled his commercial motor insurance 
policy and then applied charges to his refund of premium. 
What happened
Mr N said One Sure asked him to contact it and he then spent over two hours making nine 
calls to try and resolve an issue. In the last call, Mr N swore at the call handler and then One 
Sure cancelled his policy and applied its charges. Mr N was unhappy as he said hed been 
passed between call handlers and hadnt managed to resolve the issue in question. He said 
swearing was the way he expressed himself.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. One Sure was 
only able to provide recordings of three of the calls Mr N made. But in the last call, he heard 
Mr N swear at the call handler. So he thought One Sure was entitled to cancel the policy in 
keeping with its Terms of Business. But he thought it had unfairly applied charges as it 
hadnt warned Mr N that his policy may cancel, because of the length of time Mr N had spent 
trying to resolve the issue, and because of Mr Ns financial circumstances. He thought it 
should waive its cancellation fees and pay Mr N the insurers refund of premium in full. 
One Sure replied that Mr N had never mentioned any financial difficulties. It said it had sent 
him a seven day notice of cancellation. It said the agent had told him to stop the abuse. It 
said the long call wait times were due to the current pandemic. It said it was wrong for Mr N 
to benefit from his unacceptable behaviour. One Sure asked for an ombudsmans review, so 
his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr N 
and to One Sure on 9 December 2021. I summarise my findings:
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its 
Terms of Business and fairly and reasonably.
I could understand that Mr N felt frustrated when he couldnt get through to One Sure to 
confirm that his amendment to his policy had been made successfully. He provided us with 
evidence that he called One Sure multiple times and he said he was kept on hold for long 
periods without an update. 
One Sure provided us with recordings of just three calls Mr N made on the day his policy 
was cancelled. I listened to these calls. One led to the cancellation and two followed it. One 
Sure said Mr N had been abusive towards its agents. But without recordings I couldnt say 
what happened in the other calls. And so I had no reason to not rely on Mr Ns account that 
he was kept on hold for long periods without any updates. I could understand that this must 
have been upsetting for him.
Mr N then called again and refused to go through the data protection procedure. He was 
upset that he was told he would again be passed to a call queue. He became heated and 
challenging, but I thought the call handler remained calm and professional. She warned Mr N 
that if he didnt co-operate she would terminate the call. I thought Mr N lost his temper so 
that he swore at the call handler who immediately ended the call. Mr N later said this was 
how he expressed himself. But I was satisfied that his language was offensive and abusive. 
One Sure then decided to cancel Mr Ns policy. I was satisfied that it was entitled to do this 
by its Terms of Business, which Mr N agreed to when he took out his policy:
In circumstances where we feel we cannot continue providing services to you, we will give 
you a minimum of 7 days notice. Valid reasons may include [] use of threating or abusive 
behaviour or language, or intimidation or bullying of our staff or suppliers.  
As I was satisfied that Mr N was abusive towards the call handler, I thought One Sure acted 
fairly and reasonably in cancelling Mr Ns policy. It sent Mr N a seven day notice of 
cancellation by text and recorded delivery to allow him time to obtain cover elsewhere. I 
thought that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
One Sure then received £119.70 as a refund of premium from the insurer. It applied its 
charges as set out in its Terms of Business: £85 for the cancellation, £10.80 for the letter 
and a £5 refund fee. So Mr N was sent a refund of £18.91. 
Our investigator recommended that One Sure should waive its charges. But I didnt agree 
with his view for the following reasons:
Mr N was kept on hold for long periods. But I couldnt see that he was treated differently 
to any other consumer by One Sure. I thought One Sure explained that it couldnt predict 
call waiting times and these may be longer due to changed working arrangements 
because of the pandemic. So I didnt think Mr N was provided with poor customer service 
that required redress. 
I accepted that the agent didnt warn Mr N that his policy may cancel if he was abusive. 
But I didnt think this was necessary as I thought it was in the Terms of Business. And I 
thought respect was a reasonable and commonly understood expectation in any 
business context. I didnt hear Mr N apologise to the agent when he later spoke to her 
about the cancellation. 
I was satisfied that One Sure was entitled by its Terms of Business to apply the charges 
when it cancelled the policy.
I couldnt see that Mr N told One Sure of his financial difficulties and I hadnt seen any 
evidence of these. But I couldnt see how these would be relevant in any case.
So I was satisfied that One Sure acted in keeping with its Terms and Business and fairly and 
reasonably when it cancelled Mr Ns policy and applied its charges. I didnt think it needed to 
pay Mr N any refund. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr N or One Sure, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to not uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N replied reiterating the trouble he had in making the amendment to his policy and the 
effect the cancellation had on him. He said One Sure let him down. One Sure didnt make 
any further comments. 
I can understand that Mr N felt frustrated that he couldnt get through to One Sure to resolve 
his problem. But, as Ive said above, he was in the same position as its other customers and not treated any differently. And I can understand that the cancellation had serious effects for 
him. But, again for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think One Sure acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in cancelling his policy. 
So, as I havent received any further representations that cause me to reconsider my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman