DRN-2435911
The complaint
Mr Y complains that RCI Financial Services Limited has registered a marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr Y said he applied for car finance with RCI in December 2016 but that this was declined. 
He found out in 2019 that RCI had added the marker in 2016. He is unhappy with this and 
says he hadnt attempted fraud. He thinks this could have been cleared up if it had contacted 
him at the time.
RCI says that the application details from the dealership said that Mr Y had lived at one 
address since 2001. But that when it assessed his application it found a record of adverse 
credit at a previous address. Mr Y hadnt disclosed this address and it considered that he 
had concealed this to try to obtain credit.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and the CIFAS marker removed 
and Mr Y paid compensation of £100. He had asked RCI to provide details to support the 
marker being added. He understood that the application was made over the phone, so he 
wanted to listen to a phone recording or to see the telephone script that had been used. It 
could not provide this. Mr Y had told him he hadnt been asked about any other addresses. 
And Mr Y explained that the address being referred to was of a property he rented out and 
that he had lived at it for a period when he had separated from his wife. He had been at the 
main address since 2001 and it never occurred to him to mention the rental property. Our 
investigator was persuaded by the testimony of Mr Y taking into account that RCI had no 
other evidence. And so, he didnt think that the high bar for the CIFAS marker had been 
reached.
RCI didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be removed. It considered it had met the 
requirements for a marker and said that CIFAS had confirmed this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, RCI needs to 
have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to believe 
that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the evidence would 
support this being reported to the authorities.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Y had a connection to an address that wasnt included on the 
proposal from the dealership, that he said he had lived at his other address since 2001 and 
that he had adverse credit at that address. So, I can see why RCI believed it had grounds to 
register the marker.
We would expect RCI to retain the evidence that supports the marker being added and not 
to need to obtain that subsequently. The issue is whether Mr Y was asked the specific 
question about previous addresses and answered it falsely or whether as he says he wasnt 
asked the question. I cant tell that from the input screenshot Ive seen and for example dont 
know if a copy of this information was sent to Mr Y to confirm it and if he did so. I also cant 
match whats on that screen to any script used at the time to determine how the questions 
about this were likely asked. What I can see though is that the section about previous 
addresses is blank.
I appreciate RCI thinks that this is only a technicality especially taking into account the 
substantial history of adverse credit at the other address. Thats a possibility but I dont think 
its retained sufficient evidence to support that. And I am not persuaded that Mr Y set out to 
attempt fraud based on what Ive seen and his own plausible explanation of what happened.
Ive looked at whether RCI was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, and 
the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried out 
checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially 
means that RCI needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the police. And 
that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ys account of events and the evidence RCI has provided, Im not 
satisfied that RCI had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. 
Putting things right
I agree with our investigators recommendation for compensation as well as that the marker 
should be removed.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require RCI Financial Services Limited to:
1) Remove the CIFAS marker.
2) Pay Mr Y £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman