DRN-3996205
The complaint
Miss T complains that Chubb European Group SE treated her unfairly when she made a 
claim on her mobile phone insurance.
What happened
Miss Ts phone was damaged, it had a cracked screen and a substance was leaking from it. 
So, she made a claim on her Chubb policy and they agreed to replace it, but they said  on 
delivery of the replacement  Miss T would have to hand over her damaged phone.
Miss T wasnt happy with that, she said she had some extremely important information on 
her old phone and would need time to be able to transfer it to the new one. Chubb explained 
that wasnt the way the policy worked, and she would have to find a way of backing up the 
information herself.
Miss T tried that at a network store, but it wasnt successful. Miss T also suggested Chubb 
repair the phone instead.
Chubb said it couldnt do that but ended up offering Miss T two options. They said if she was 
able to obtain a quote for the repair then they would cover the cost. Alternatively, they could 
allow her additional time to transfer the data to the replacement, before she had to hand over 
the damaged phone. Chubb also offered Miss T £50 account credit for some service issues.
Miss T remained unhappy, so brought the case to our service. An investigator here looked 
into the matter and felt Chubb had acted appropriately in the main. Theyd begun by offering 
to replace the phone  which was what the cover provided. And they offered alternatives to 
that, outside of the policy terms, after considering Miss Ts circumstances.
Miss T didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by acknowledging how difficult and upsetting Miss T has found this 
experience. My role here is to consider how the insurer handled the matter and whether they 
added significantly to Miss Ts distress. And while I dont doubt she feels they did, overall, I 
think they tried to find appropriate solutions for her.
While Im upholding Miss Ts complaint, I wont be asking Chubb to increase their offer of 
compensation. Ill explain why.
The place to start in cases like this is to see what the insurance policy says it will do. Miss T 
has accidental damage cover, which a cracked screen would come under. And it says it will 
provide a replacement (not a repair) in the event of such damage.
The policy also says that if the phone is accidentally damaged then the customer must return 
the damaged one to the insurer. And that this will normally take place as an exchange when 
the replacement is delivered. So Im satisfied that Chubb were following the policy terms and 
conditions when the claim was made.
I do appreciate Miss Ts circumstances were different from normal and that the information 
on her damaged phone was extremely important to her. I think it is reasonable for insurers to 
work with their customers to find a solution when the normal process isnt really working.
Chubb did that in offering solutions which could have helped Miss T. I appreciate the 
solutions still might not have been ideal  and that Miss T had difficulties in backing up her 
phone even with the help of the network store manager  but the solutions were reasonable.
Chubb accept that they may have been able to offer those earlier, and they offered £50 
compensation to Miss T. I know that is a modest sum and that Miss Ts information was of 
great importance to her, but Im satisfied Chubb tried to help. And they werent required to do 
what they did so the gesture of offering alternatives to her was itself positive.
I appreciate Miss T has asked for a refund of her insurance premiums, but I dont think thats 
the right response to the matter. Miss T has been covered for loss or damage to her phone 
over the years and even if she hasnt claimed on it before that doesnt mean the cost of it 
should be refunded. Especially as she has now claimed, was offered a replacement and 
some alternatives to help with her circumstances.
I also understand that Miss T was without a working phone for approximately two months, 
and that caused problems with her banking app. But I dont think that can be said to be 
Chubbs fault because they offered a replacement phone when the claim was made.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Chubb European Group SE to 
provide the £50 compensation offered to Miss T  unless it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman