DRN-1606251
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2008 alongside a credit card. Mr D says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada 
Square) mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr D case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Canada Square made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that he chose to take it out. The PPI sales process Mr D went through would have 
required him to either select or refuse PPI with both options being equally prominent 
 he wouldnt have been able to progress past this stage if he didnt make a 
selection. Given that the application progressed and PPI was applied to his account 
at this stage, I think its more likely that Mr D chose to take it out.
 
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him. 
 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr D.
 
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:  
When the policy was sold, Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. 
Because Canada Square didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including what hes said about his employee 
sick pay and savings. But these points dont change my decision. The PPI policy would have 
paid out in addition to Mr Ds sick pay and savings and would also have paid out if he lost his 
job  for up to 12 months per claim. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman