DRN-1671656
 
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Allay Claims Ltd are charging her for a claim for mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 January 2020, a copy of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary, I said Allay had acted reasonably by invoicing Miss P for her successful mis-
sold PPI claim against Lender S. I said Allay had originally made this claim for Miss P in 
2011, and that Lender S had told them the claim was unsuccessful. But, in May 2019, 
Lender S confirmed theyd reopened the 2011 claim and had decided that PPI had been 
mis-sold because their commission hadnt been disclosed  whats known as a Plevin claim.
I said Lender S only reviewed the claim because Allay had originally submitted it for Miss P. 
Allay had told Miss P the claim was unsuccessful, because thats what Lender S told them. 
And Lender S didnt tell Allay theyd reopened the claim and were looking at it again, so Allay 
couldnt tell Miss S what was happening  they didnt know. 
When Miss S instructed Allay to act for her, she agreed to a success fee of 30% plus VAT. 
Because Lender S had reopened an existing claim, Allay didnt need an new authority from 
Miss P and the existing terms wouldve remained in place. As Allay charged Miss P their 
fees in line with the terms she agreed to, I said these fees were due.
Both Miss P and Allay have been given the opportunity to comment on my provisional 
decision. Allay have agreed with my provisional decision and, as a gesture of goodwill, 
theyre prepared to reduce their fee from the 30% plus VAT Miss P agreed to, to 20% plus 
VAT  their current success fee.
Miss P has said that she didnt instruct Allay in 2011, it was in 2016. She also says that she 
made the claim in 2011 herself and Allay had no involvement in the claim. So she doesnt 
think their fees are due.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive responded to the points raised by 
Miss P below.
It was my understanding that Miss P had instructed Allay to make the claim against Lender S 
in 2011, because this is what the letter from Lender S said. But both Miss P and Allay have 
said the claim through Allay was made in 2016, not 2011. I would like to apologise for this 
error which was made based on the evidence I had available to me at the time. The claim being made through Allay in 2016, not 2011, alters the fundamental facts of the 
case  the claim that Lender S originally said had been unsuccessful in 2011 wasnt a claim 
made by Allay. Because of this Allay arent entitled to charge their fee on this claim.
I wrote to both parties to tell them that because:
Lender S have confirmed it was the 2011 claim, not the 2016 claim, that was 
successful in 2019;
Miss P has provided evidence that she submitted the claim in 2011;
Allay havent provided any evidence to show they submitted any claim in 2011; and
Allay have confirmed that Miss P didnt instruct them until 2016
I now think Allay arent entitled to charge their fee. I gave both parties until 12 March 2020 to 
provide any further evidence or comments they may have. Neither Allay or Miss P have 
provided any further evidence or comments.
So, all comments have been considered and my provisional decision has changed. And as 
all parties have also had the opportunity to comment on my changed provisional decision, 
Im able to issue a final decision on this basis.
Putting things right
Allay should cancel their invoice, and confirm this in writing to Miss P. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ps complaint. Allay Claims Ltd must cancel 
their invoice for Miss Ps claim and confirm this cancellation in writing to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
 
 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Allay Claims Ltd are charging her for a claim for mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
what happened
In 2011 Miss P instructed Allay to make a mis-sold PPI claim against lender S. Lender S 
said Miss P hadnt been mis-sold PPI so the claim was unsuccessful. But, in May 2019, 
lender S said theyd reviewed Miss Ps claim and that itd been successful because of 
undisclosed commission  whats known as a Plevin claim. 
Lender S paid Miss P compensation for the Plevin mis-sale. Allay invoiced Miss P for their 
fee for this claim and are now pursuing her for non-payment.
Allay didnt provide any evidence to show theyd submitted the successful claim in 2019. 
Because of this our investigator found that Allay couldnt charge their fee. Allay didnt respond to the investigators view but continued to chase Miss P for their fee. 
Because of this the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its not disputed that Miss P instructed Allay to make the claim against lender S in 2011. Its 
also not disputed that Allay told her this claim had been unsuccessful. Because of this, I 
dont need to see any paperwork relating to the original claim.
Ive seen the letter lender S sent to Miss P on 7 May 2019. This says in June 2011, you 
raised a complaint alleging mis-selling of a PPI policy  we investigated your complaint and 
wrote to you summarising the reasons why your complaint wasnt upheld. So Im satisfied 
this letter confirms the undisputed facts about the 2011 claim.
But this letter also goes on to say when we reviewed your complaint, we considered 
whether there was an unfair relationship arising out of the [original] agreement  as we 
didnt explain the commission that was paid to us for selling the insurance. However we 
couldnt deal with this aspect of your complaint until the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
set out its position on undisclosed commission.
 
The letter went on to explain that, in line with the guidance provided by the FCA, a Plevin 
claim had been successful and lender S were paying Miss P £3,472.23 compensation. Ive 
seen that Allay are chasing Miss P for £1,250.06  36% of the amount of compensation 
shed received. As I understand it, Allays success fee when Miss P instructed them in 2011 
was 30% plus VAT  36%. So Allays invoice represents their success fee on the Plevin 
claim payment.
Its clear from the 7 May 2019 letter that lender S were reviewing a previously rejected claim. 
This wasnt a new claim made by Allay without any authority to do so. Ive not seen anything 
to show that Miss P made a separate Plevin claim to lender S at some point after 2011. So 
its reasonable for me to conclude that the claim lender S were reviewing was the claim 
made by Allay in 2011.
If Allay hadnt made the claim in 2011, there wouldnt be anything for lender S to review and 
Miss P wouldnt have received any compensation. So the Plevin claim was only successful 
as a direct result of the work Allay did in 2011. Allay told Miss P the claim had been 
unsuccessful in 2011 because this is what lender S told them  this is confirmed by the 7 
May 2019 letter. So Allay didnt do anything wrong by telling Miss P her claim had been 
unsuccessful. And Ive not seen anything to show that lender S told Allay they were 
reopening the claim. So I cant hold Allay responsible for not telling Miss P this  it was 
something they didnt know.
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Miss P but, because the Plevin claim 
was only successful in 2019 as a direct result of Allays work in 2011, and because Allay 
only told Miss P what lender S had told them; their fee is due. And, even though Allay have 
changed their success fee rate since 2011, their fee should be payable at the rate Miss P 
agreed to in 2011 - 30% plus VAT (36%) because, if the Plevin element of the claim had 
been paid out in 2011, this is the fee Miss P wouldve paid at the time.
my provisional decisionFor the reasons explained above I dont intend uphold Miss Ps complaint about Allay Claims 
Ltd.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman