DRN-3521678
The complaint
Ms P has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles Card irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms P was provided with a Marbles branded credit card, which had an initial credit limit of 
£450, in May 2019. The credit limit on this account was increased on five occasions until it 
reached £6,200 in May 2021. 
Ms P says that at the time of the credit limit increases she was unable to repay her debt and 
was reliant on her credit card. She says she was overdrawn on three accounts and was 
struggling financially. She says the credit limit increases put her further in debt and 
contributed to her financial hardship. 
NewDay said that adequate checks were carried out before each credit limit increase and 
that Ms P was managing her account well. 
Our investigator reviewed what Ms P and NewDay had told us. He thought that NewDay 
shouldnt have provided the credit limit increase in August 2019, or any subsequent credit 
limit increases. So, he partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. 
NewDay didnt agree and so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Ms Ps complaint.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms P 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Ms Ps income and expenditure. 
When Ms P opened her account NewDay conducted a credit check. This showed that Ms P 
had two defaulted accounts with a total balance of £500. The most recent default was 
recorded as being 14 months prior. It also showed that Ms P had £3,900 of unsecured 
borrowing. The affordability checks carried out at the time of application recorded Ms P as 
being a student living with parents with a gross annual income of £26,000. 
I note the credit report received by NewDay showed Ms P had no accounts in arrears and no 
public records at the time. I also note the defaults were historic. However, the most recent 
default was only just over a year old and I think this showed signs that Ms P had previously 
struggled to manage her money. She also had unsecured debt that needed to be repaid. 
Therefore, I think it would have been important to understand Ms Ps income. I can see that 
she was recorded as being a student with an annual income of £26,000. There is no further 
detail about Ms Ps source of income at that time. Ms P has provided copies of her bank 
statements, but I do not have these for the period leading up to the application. Therefore, 
noting the credit limit of £450 and given the credit check didnt raise any current concerns, I 
do not find that I have enough to say that NewDay was wrong to provide the credit card.
Ms P had only had the credit card account for three months when a credit limit increase was 
applied. The limit was increased to £1,450, over three times the original limit. I note 
NewDays comments about using current account turnover (CATO) data to assess 
affordability and that it wasnt required to gather payslips or bank statements. While I agree 
that relying on the CATO data could be proportionate in certain circumstances, I think that 
given the size of the increase, that Ms P had only had the credit card a short period and 
noting the other information gathered, further checks should have taken place before 
NewDay could be satisfied that Ms P would be able to afford the additional borrowing. 
NewDays data shows that Ms P was making large payments towards her card each month 
in order to facilitate high usage of the card. While I note NewDays comment about this I do 
not find this necessarily shows that further lending would be affordable. I say this as Ms P 
was spending and repaying but her outstanding balance was increasing, and I think that 
further checks should have taken place to understand Ms Ps financial situation. 
I cannot say for certain what information would have been received had further checks taken 
place but having looked at Ms Ps credit report from the time and copies of her bank 
statements, these showed that she had three bank accounts operating at or beyond their 
overdraft limits. This shows signs of financial difficulty and I think NewDay should have been 
concerned that increasing Ms Ps credit limit at that time, and by the amount it did, was likely 
to be unsustainably affordable for Ms P.
NewDay applied further credit limit increases to Ms Ps account. As I have nothing to 
suggest that Ms Ps financial circumstances improved such that the concerns set out above 
were no longer relevant, I do not find it reasonable that NewDay applied the subsequent 
credit limit increases.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Ms Ps credit limit from £450, I dont think its 
fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Ms P has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the accounts, so I think 
she should pay this back (if this hasnt already happened). Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £450 from 19 August 2019.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms P along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after August 2019 regarding this account from Ms Ps credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £450, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Ms P for the remaining amount. Once 
Ms P has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
August 2019 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. *HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ps complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as 
Marbles Card should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman