DRN-1390560
The complaint
Mr C complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr C was given five loans by Lending Stream between January and December 2017. Each 
of the loans was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments but Mr C repaid each of them 
far earlier than planned. A summary of Mr C's borrowing from Lending Stream is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 28/01/2017 28/04/2017 £  400
2 11/05/2017 15/05/2017 £  300
3 28/09/2017 04/10/2017 £  300
4 16/10/2017 01/11/2017 £  700
5 06/12/2017 07/02/2018 £  630
Mr C's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didn't think Lending 
Stream had been wrong to give any of the loans to Mr C. So he didn't think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr C didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Lending Stream did some checks before it gave each of the loans to Mr C. It asked him for 
details of his income and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before 
agreeing each loan. I've seen a summary of the results of the credit checks and they don't 
generally show anything that I think should have caused additional concerns to the lender, 
although I will comment on the results of the checks the lender received before the final loan 
later in this decision.
Generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit 
file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion 
of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up 
to date. So, this may explain any differences between the information provided by Lending 
Streams credit check to it and the information seen by Mr C in his credit report.
I have noted that our adjudicator thought the gap between loans 2 and 3 was sufficiently 
long for Lending Stream to be reassured that any problems Mr C might previously have 
faced with his finances had been resolved. But I don't agree. Although that gap might have 
given Lending Stream a degree of reassurance, I don't think it would have been reasonable 
to treat loan 3 as the start of a new chain of borrowing.
But I think that the checks Lending Stream did before agreeing the first three loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr C needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
these loans. So I don't think Lending Stream was wrong to give these three loans to Mr C. 
I think that Lending Stream needed to do more checks before it agreed loans 4 and 5. By 
that time Mr C had been borrowing from the lender for almost nine months, and the amount 
he was asking to borrow had increased markedly. But that in itself doesn't mean that Mr Cs 
complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that what I consider to be 
proportionate checks would have shown Lending Stream that Mr C couldn't sustainably 
afford the loans. So Ive looked at Mr Cs bank statements to see what better checks would 
have shown Lending Stream.
Having done so I'm not persuaded that better checks would reasonably have led Lending 
Stream to conclude that it shouldn't lend to Mr C. At the time of loan 4 there isn't any 
obvious evidence that he is facing problems managing his finances. And although his 
situation appears to be starting to deteriorate around the time he asked for the final loan, 
I dont think his finances would have appeared under so much pressure that Lending Stream 
should have declined his application.
As I said earlier I have also considered the results of the credit checks that Lending Stream 
received before agreeing each loan. For the early loans these shown nothing of any concern to the lender. But at the time of the final loan there is evidence that Mr C had defaulted on 
another credit account around two months earlier. That should have caused concern to the 
lender, and is reflected partly in my reasoning above that further checks were needed before 
the fifth loan was agreed. But I don't think the default, in isolation, was a reason for Lending 
Stream to refuse to lend to Mr C.
I appreciate that Mr C says his finances were under pressure at that time, and particularly  
when he took the last three loans. And I have noted that he says he needed to take a 
guarantor loan to help repay some of his debts. But the true state of Mr C's finances wasn't 
something that he shared with Lending Stream when he asked for the loans. And I don't 
think it is something that Lending Stream should have discovered from proportionate checks. 
So I don't think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Gain Credit LLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman