DRN-1540782
 
The complaint
Mr G complained about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre). Hes not happy about the way it dealt with a claim under his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G took out travel insurance and made a claim after he lost his prescription spectacles, or 
they were stolen, while he was on a cruise. Mapfre agreed the claim and paid £200 towards 
the cost of replacement glasses. This was because the policy had a single article limit of 
£200. But Mr G thought that it should pay £300 as this was the limit under the policy for 
prescription spectacles. So he complained to Mapfre and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He acknowledged that 
there was a single article limit. But he didnt think the clause was clear enough and could 
understand why Mr G thought he should be paid £300.
But Mapfre didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
As Mapfre has agreed the claim should be met the only thing left to consider is the level of 
payment it should make towards the cost of replacing Mr Gs glasses. It has agreed to pay 
£200 towards the overall cost of about £500. And feels this is the maximum that is due under 
the policy as there is a limit on single article payments.
Ive considered the policy documentation and I can understand Mapfres position here. But 
as it is aware, if there is any ambiguity in a policy term then this service will interpret this in 
the consumers favour. And I agree that the policy could be clearer, so I think it should pay 
£300 towards the cost of Mr Gs replacement glasses.
I say this as although the single article limit does outline that there is a limit of £200, I can 
understand why Mr G thought he would be paid more. Mr G is a lay person and doesnt have 
the level of insurance knowledge that Mapfre has so I can understand why he thought he 
would get paid £300, as opposed to £200. I say this as the part of the policy he relied on isnt 
clear and is ambiguous. On the one hand it says there is a maximum on the policy for 
valuables of £250; then it says there is a single article limit of £200; before saying that there 
is a £300 limit for all prescription spectacles. 
I think this is confusing and although Mapfre intended to limit cover to £200 this isnt clear. I 
havent awarded any compensation here as I do understand Mapfres position. But I do think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for Mapfre 
to pay Mr G £300 as opposed to £200.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to pay Mr G £300 for his 
spectacles. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman