DRN-2956864
The complaint
Ms H complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent her a number of loans.  
What happened
Ms H was approved for three loans by TFS. They are summarised below:
Loan Number Date Taken Capital Amount TermMonthly 
Repayment
One September 2012 £3,000 60 months £124.54
Two May 2013 £4,500 60 months £175.82
Three February 2014 £6,000 72 months £222.35
  
Ms H complains TFS did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before it 
approved the loans. She says the loans were unaffordable and TFS would have realised this 
had it completed proportionate checks. She says she has lost out financially as a result of 
TFS actions as she has had to pay additional interest and charges.
TFS says it made a fair decision to lend the loans to Ms H. It says it completed proportionate 
checks which showed the loans were likely affordable to her.
Our investigator reviewed the case and found:
Loan one had not been sold irresponsibly. He felt the checks completed were 
proportionate and showed Ms H could afford the loan;
Loans two and three were lent irresponsibly. He felt the checks when loan two was 
approved showed Ms Hs circumstances had deteriorated. Ms H had begun to 
develop arrears on her mortgage and had defaulted on a mail order account. By loan 
three Ms H financial position had continued to worsen. And as such TFS should not 
have approved these loans.
Ms H accepted our investigators findings. As no agreement could be reached on loans two 
and three the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above; this decision will consider whether TFS irresponsibly lent loans two 
and three to Ms H. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website.
The relevant rules and guidelines at the time the loans were approved required TFS to 
ensure any lending was done in a sustainable manner. The guidelines further define this as 
without undue difficulty; and in particular without incurring or increasing any borrowers 
indebtedness further. 
In relation to the checks which TFS was required to complete; these needed to be 
proportionate and borrower focused. Meaning TFS needed to understand Ms Hs ability to 
undertake the specific credit commitment she was applying for. The assessment of 
affordability didnt have a specific set of checks which needed to be completed; but they 
needed to assess the likelihood of Ms H being able to repay the credit in question. The 
guidelines dont set out what exact checks TFS needed to complete, but they needed to be 
proportionate to the amount of credit being borrowed. The types of checks which mayve 
been proportionate could include understanding Ms Hs existing and future commitments.
Finally, the guidelines at the time explain TFS needed to carefully consider the information it 
was provided.
Ill deal with loan two and three in turn.
Loan two  May 2013
Loan two was taken approximately 8 months after loan one. The capital amount increased 
from £3,000 to £4,500, with the monthly repayments increasing by roughly £50 to £175.28 
per month.
TFS completed similar checks to that of loan one. It searched Ms Hs credit file, completed 
an income and expenditure check. It also requested bank statements and a copy of Ms Hs 
payslip to verify this information. 
Ms Hs application showed that her salary had decreased since loan one. TFS calculated 
that Ms H would have a disposable income of around £477 per month. As it checked Ms Hs 
credit file, and verified the information TFS says it completed proportionate checks. And as 
these checks showed Ms H could afford the loan it says its decision to lend was reasonable.
Having reviewed the information TFS has provided, I disagree its decision to lend was fair. 
The checks it completed show inconsistent information compared to Ms Hs application; and 
places considerable doubt on whether Ms H had the stated disposable income.
Looking at Ms Hs credit file it is clear her financial situation has worsened since the approval 
of loan one. In particular she had defaulted on two accounts since loan one  one being a 
telecommunications account for a relatively small amount, and a second for a mail order 
account. The balance for the mail order account was for £292. 
The credit file also shows Ms H mortgage was in an arrears. The range of the arrears had 
varied during this time, ranging from up to date to being 5 months in arrears. In addition to 
this; a further mail order account had developed arrears between loan one and loan two.
Ms Hs application form shows she was now working two jobs in order to meet her 
outgoings. However, the statements which were provided demonstrate she was still 
struggling to meet her outgoings with her available income. Looking at the statements it is 
clear Ms H is managing her finances to a tight if not negative margin. The statements show that Ms Hs balance remains consistently low throughout the month, and at times enters into 
her unarranged overdraft causing her to incur charges.  This is inconsistent with the 
information provided and doesnt demonstrate there was a disposable income of around 
£400.
Taking this into account, Im satisfied that further lending to Ms H was unreasonable. The 
information which TFS had gathered showed Ms H was struggling to manage her existing 
commitments, and as such any further increase in these outgoings was likely unsustainable. 
Loan three  February 2014
Loan three was taken out 9 months after loan two. The capital amount again increased from 
£4,500 to £6,000. The repayment amount increased by just under £50 per month to around 
£222. The term of the loan also increased from 60 to 72 months. 
Ive already explained why Im satisfied loan two should not have been lent; and it follows 
that loan three shouldnt have been approved either.
I say this because again TFS conducted a number of checks (credit file search, income and 
expenditure and supporting verification); and the information it provided demonstrated 
further lending was unsustainable to Ms H.
The credit file showed Ms H had taken out further credit between loan two and three being 
provided. She had taken a further high cost credit loan in August 2013; and that she still 
struggled to manage her mortgage account; with arrears continuing to occur after loan two 
had approved. The report also shows that Ms H had received a CCJ in August 2013 for a 
total of £392.
The statements show Ms H had started employment with a new employer and was receiving 
an increased salary. However, they still show Ms H was managing her finances to a tight 
margin. They also show she had supplemented her income with other forms of credit during 
this time too. Im therefore satisfied that Ms H was continuing to struggle to meet her existing 
commitments sustainably. This is further exasperated by the fact the term for loan three was 
significantly longer than that of two. Meaning Ms Hs indebtedness was being extended.  
And as such any further lending, such as loan three, was not sustainable to her and 
therefore shouldnt have been approved. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require TFS Loans Limited to:
To add up the total amount of money Ms H received as a result of having been given 
loans two and three. The repayments Ms H made should be deducted from this 
amount.
a) If this results in Ms H having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest 
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date 
of settlement),*
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans Limited 
should attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms 
H.
To remove any negative information recorded on Ms Hs credit file regarding these loans.
 *HM revenue & Customs requires Lend Fair Ltd to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
Limited must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against TFS Loans Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman