DRN-1464319
 
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with his insurers National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFUM), who declined his claim under his home contents insurance for a boiler breakdown.  
What happened
In September 2019, Mr N contacted NFUM following his boiler breaking down. NFUM told 
him that he wasnt covered on his policy and he didnt have home emergency cover.  
Mr N was upset by this and raised a complaint. NFUM investigated his complaint and didnt 
uphold it for the same reasons, as well as relying on the policy exclusion of wear and tear.  
Mr N was unhappy with its decision and brought the complaint to the service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found that NFUM didnt act unfairly in 
declining his claim and could rely on the exclusion clause. She also considered his complaint 
that NFUM didnt act quickly enough in dealing with his claim but she concluded that it did 
deal with the complaint within a reasonable period of time.  
Mr N didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I will now give my reasons why.
In considering this complaint I have considered the evidence available to NFUM to see if it 
made a fair decision. 
I have seen the policy document that Mr N wouldve had. There is no section in it that covers 
boiler replacement in the event of a breakdown. There is an optional home emergency policy 
but Mr N didnt select this cover.  Despite this, that section also doesnt cover for boiler 
replacement either. So I can see why NFUM declined the claim.  
Mr Ns policy wouldve covered him for a boiler replacement had there been an insured 
event raised as a claim, such as a storm. But I have seen no evidence to show that Mr N 
raised an insured event at the time. When he reported the claim to NFUM, he said that there 
was a crack in the heat exchange and he didnt know how it happened. It is possible that 
NFUM may well have replaced the boiler had there been an insured event reported. But as 
there wasnt in this instance, I think it was reasonable for NFUM to have declined the claim.   Many insurers have a policy exclusion relating to wear and tear. In that they wont cover 
damage arising from wear and tear. Mr N describes a crack forming on the boiler. NFUM 
said that this is likely as a result of wear and tear. In the absence of any insured event being 
reported, I think it is reasonable for NFUM to rely on the policy exclusion of wear and tear. 
So I dont think it was unfair in declining Mr Ns claim. 
Mr N raised the issue of delay. I have been provided with call logs and can see that NFUM 
told Mr N early on in the claim process, that his claim wouldnt be successful. So I cant see 
there was an element of delay.   
I sympathise with Mr N for the problems he faced in dealing with his boiler, but I think that 
NFUM acted fairly when it declined the claim and I cant ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman