DRN-2354097
The complaint
The estate of Mrs T complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited trading as NFU Mutual (NFU) immediately changed the terms of a home insurance 
policy when it was informed that Mrs Ts home would be unoccupied.
Mr T is the son and an executor for the late Mrs T.
What happened
Following Mrs Ts death, Mr T informed NFU to ensure that her home was adequately 
insured. NFU said that it would immediately remove some cover for the property, such as for 
malicious damage. Mr T didnt think that the remaining cover would be enough, so he 
immediately had to search for a new policy.
Mr T complained to NFU as he thought that the unoccupancy wording in the policy should 
have meant that the full policy remained in place for 60 days. NFU replied that it had acted in 
line with its terms and conditions. These required a policyholder to inform NFU of any 
changes in circumstances and that it reserved the right to alter the terms of the policy on 
receipt of that information.
Mr T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said NFU 
had acted within the terms of the policy by changing the terms and conditions with 
immediate effect.
As Mr T did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 2 November 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive looked at the policy wording. This said that when a policyholder informed NFU of a 
change it may cancel or alter the terms of the policy or amend the premium before your next 
renewal or at your next renewal. 
The policy also said You must tell us before if you intend to leave your home 
unoccupied. The policy defined unoccupied as This is when the home is  furnished but 
not used to provide overnight accommodation for you or any visitor with your permission for 
more than 60 consecutive days.
Given the circumstances of this case, which is that Mrs T went into hospital, where she died 
a short while later, it wasnt possible for someone to inform NFU in advance that Mrs Ts 
home would be unoccupied. But, Mr T spoke to NFU shortly after Mrs Ts death. This was 
before the property had been unoccupied for 60 days. 
NFU was entitled to look at the change to the level of risk based on the information Mr T 
provided and to make changes in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Having 
read the wording of the policy, I havent seen anything that said that where a property was 
unoccupied for 60 days the policy terms would only be altered after 60 days had passed. So, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for NFU to change the level of cover within the 60-day 
period.
Ive also looked at the Financial Conduct Authoritys insurance regulations. The Insurance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), explains the responsibilities of insurers. ICOBS 
6.4.11 explains what must happen when there is a mid-term change to a policy. This 
requires an insurer to inform a customer about any changes, together with an explanation of 
any implications of the changes. This must be provided in writing or another durable 
medium in good time before the change takes effect or, if the change is at the customer's 
request, as soon as is practicable provided the firm explains the implications of the change 
before it takes effect.
Although ICOBS doesnt define what in good time means, I think it is reasonable to 
interpret this as allowing enough time for a policyholder to receive the information and to be 
able to take some action before the change takes effect. In this instance, the changes took 
immediate effect, which I dont think was fair or in line with the requirement in ICOBS. As a 
result, Mr T immediately had to look for a new policy as he thought that the property didnt 
have the required level of cover. Im also aware that he had to do this very shortly after his 
mothers death and at the same time as making arrangements for her funeral.
So, thinking about all of the above, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint because 
NFU should have given Mr T some notice of the changes to the terms of the policy. Im also 
currently of the view that NFU should pay Mr T £250 because of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by how it dealt with the changes to the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 2 December 2020. Both parties responded before that date.
Mr T accepted the decision, subject to any comments or objections made by NFU.
NFU confirmed that it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision that I uphold this complaint 
and for the reasons previously given.
Putting things right
As a result, NFU must pay the estate of Mrs T £250 because of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by how it dealt with the changes to the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld and I require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to pay the estate of Mrs T £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman