DRN-3349883
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Moneybarn No 1 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S acquired a car with finance from Moneybarn in August 2018. The car was 6 years old 
and had covered 58,702 miles at the point of supply. In June 2021 Mr S raised a complaint 
with Moneybarn that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality as it had cigarette burns in the 
carpets. Mr S said that he had tried to resolve this with the supplying dealership who had 
told him to cover the marks with car mats.
Moneybarn said that it does not source the cars and so it was up to Mr S to inspect the car 
prior to accepting it for any cosmetic issues. Moneybarn said that as Mr S had taken 
possession of the car it couldnt ask the dealership to rectify these issues. The car was later 
repossessed as Mr S had not made the agreed finance repayments and he no longer has 
the car.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
that there was no evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply 
and they couldnt say that the damage was there at the outset. Mr S wasnt able to provide 
any information from the dealership to show that he had raised the issue with them. The 
investigator noted that even if the car did have this cosmetic damage the appropriate remedy 
would be a repair which could not now be carried out as Mr S no longer has the car. Mr S 
didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to say at the outset that I have read all of the information and gone through the 
contact notes provided by the business in detail to understand Mr Ss concerns. I can see 
that he bought the car in August 2018 and it is reasonable to conclude that Mr S noticed the 
burn marks quite soon after he got the car. I appreciate that Mr S says he raised the matter 
with the dealership and was told to cover the marks with car mats but I cant see that he 
made Moneybarn aware of the issues until nearly three years later in June 2021.
I understand the difficulties Mr S was experiencing around this time and I have taken 
account of why he says he didnt raise the matter with Moneybarn. But this means that there 
isnt much evidence about these marks from when the car was supplied to Mr S. I know that 
Mr S said he noticed them and raised them with the dealership but there isnt any evidence 
about that and Mr S hasnt been able to produce anything that would show that these marks 
were there at the point of supply.
In addition, it is clear that the marks are cosmetic and didnt prevent Mr S driving the car. 
Even if I was able to say that Moneybarn was responsible for the damage, I could only 
award the cost of a repair. As Mr S no longer has the car this is not something that is fair or 
reasonable.
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Mr S but for the reasons I have explained I 
dont uphold this complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman