DRN-3360834
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined her claim for her 
faulty cooker and she thinks it mis-sold the appliance insurance policy to her.
What happened
Ms A took out appliance cover for her cooker and three other appliances. She made a claim 
under the policy because her cooker wasnt working properly. D&G declined the claim 
because the fault was a pre-existing condition which she hadnt disclosed when she bought 
the policy.
Ms A complained because shed fully disclosed the corrosion on her cooker when taking out 
the policy, so she thought D&G should either repair or replace in line with the policy. But 
D&G said it declined the claim because the door seal was missing.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms As complaint. Although they agreed the policy shouldnt 
have been sold to Ms A, our investigator said D&G had put matters right by refunding the 
payments.
Ms A didnt agree. She said the cooker fault was nothing to do with the corrosion and the 
repair shouldve been covered under the policy, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand shell be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. Ill 
explain.
The overriding issue is that Ms A doesnt think it was fair that D&G declined her claim 
because shed fully disclosed the condition of her cooker when she bought the policy. D&G 
said it declined the claim because of a missing door seal, which Ms A hadnt disclosed.
The terms and conditions of the policy state that the appliance should be in good working 
order when the policy is taken out. 
Ive listened to the sales call and its clear that Ms A told D&G about the timer being pushed 
back on the cooker, and that the lacquer had come away. Later she confirmed there was 
rust. I heard Ms A confirm that her cooker was in good working order, but she also said she 
was going to buy a new one because there was a problem with it. The sales agent explained 
that rust wasn't covered under the policy but any unrelated damage which happened after 30 
days passed would be covered. The agent clearly confirmed that pre-existing damage wasn't 
covered.
The issue, then, is whether D&G incorrectly told Ms A that her cooker was covered despite 
the existing rust damage. 
Ive considered the engineers report. The reason the cooker wasn't working properly was 
because the seal was missing from the door. The engineer says the housing was misshapen 
and the door was ill-fitting. I can see why that would tie in with Ms As complaint that cooking 
was inconsistent.
Ms A says her claim was declined because of the rust. I see D&G referenced the rust in its 
final response to Ms A, but I dont agree that was why it declined the overall claim. The 
engineer reported that the cooker was damaged and the seal was missing. Given that Ms A 
confirmed on the sales call that she was buying another cooker because of problems with it, 
Im satisfied I can rely on the engineers report as an accurate description. So its fair to 
conclude the cooker wouldve been faulty when the policy started three weeks earlier
On balance, I think its more likely than not that the cooker wasn't working properly when Ms 
A took out the policy. Thats because she told the sales agent as much during the call and, 
as a pre-existing condition, it wouldnt have been covered for a repair or replacement under 
the policy. For that reason, I think D&G fairly declined to cover the claim.
Moving on to the mis-selling aspect of Ms As complaint, I cant say D&G treated her fairly 
when it sold a policy for a cooker shed said wasn't working properly. Its unlikely shed ever 
have been able to claim under the policy. D&G refunded the payments to Ms A putting her 
back in the position shed been in before the sale. In the circumstances I think that was fair.
Ms A still thinks D&G should repair or replace her cooker because it sold her the policy 
knowing about the existing condition. I understand the point shes making, but I cant agree. 
Insurance is there to protect against future risk: Ms As cooker was already faulty before she 
took out the policy. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask D&G to provide her with a working cooker 
when she didnt have that to begin with.
Finally, Ive thought about whether D&G caused Ms A any detriment by selling her a policy 
she wouldnt have been able to claim under. I think its unlikely that any insurer wouldve 
provided cover for a cooker which was already faulty. So, I cant fairly say D&G caused Ms A 
any loss.
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence suggests D&G mis-sold the policy to Ms A but it put 
matters right by refunding her payments. And as there was no other loss to Ms A, I see no 
reason to ask D&G to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman