DRN-4103963
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr A with a loan for £1,000.00 in September 2018. This loan had 
an APR of 99.9% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£1,899.12, including interest, fees and charges of £899.12, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just under £80. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr As complaint and she thought 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have provided Mr A with his loan. So she thought that Mr As complaint should be 
upheld. 
118 118 Money didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to find out enough about Mr A such that it could have a 
reasonable understanding of whether Mr A could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Given what it may consider to be the relatively low monthly repayments due on this loan, I 
can to some extent understand why 118 118 Money may believe that a relatively light touch 
assessment of affordability would have been proportionate given the circumstances here.
However, the information 118 118 Money has provided suggested that it carried out a credit 
check. The credit check showed that Mr A was already significantly indebted and had had 
previously had difficulties with credit. Mr A was already using most of the credit available to 
him on his revolving credit commitments, was over the limit on some of them, had recently 
taken out new accounts and increased the limits on others. 
All of this ought to have indicated that Mr A may have been developing a reliance on credit. 
So I think that 118 118 Money ought to have obtained more further information from Mr A in 
order to have been able to make an informed decision on whether to lend to him. 
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mr A has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time he took out this loan. And this is 
supported by the information hes provided on his financial circumstances at the time. And 
while its possible Mr As indebtedness reflected his choices rather than financial difficulty, Id 
add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of 
any reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 118 Money, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Mr As version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr As existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without suffering adverse 
consequences or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Mr As circumstances would more like than 
not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to him. As 118 118 
Money provided Mr A with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards him. 
Mr A ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr A lost out because of what 118 118 Money did wrong and that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Mr A by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr As loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr A made, whether to 118 118 Money or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mr A has already paid more than £1,000.00 on this loan then 118 118 Money should 
treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to             
Mr A;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr A to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information 118 118 Money recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Mr As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest.            
118 118 Money must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks 
for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman