DRN-2058940
The complaint
K, a limited company, is unhappy that Xbridge Limited mis-sold it a business protection
insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision this complaint in July 2020, part of which is copied below:
A director of K, Mrs Y, took out a business protection insurance policy (the policy) for the
benefit of K via Xbridges website in January 2019.
Xbridge was unable to collect payment of the insurance premium and subsequently
cancelled the policy. Mrs Y called Xbridge in March 2019 and spoke with one of its
representatives to query why the policy had been cancelled. Upon being told the reason,
Xbridges representative proceeded to sell her a business protection policy which was the
same as the policy she bought in January 2019, albeit with a different start date.
In August 2019 a customer visited the hair salon operated by K, for a colour treatment and
haircut. That customer subsequently threatened legal action against K claiming that the
colour treatment she received had been left on for too long and it had damaged her hair.
K sought to claim under the public liability section of the policy, but this was declined by the
underwriter of the policy. It said K wasnt covered for any injury arising out of, or in
connection with, any treatment used, practised or performed by  or on behalf of  K.
Mrs Y says that K was mis-sold the policy, and that had shed known when taking out the
policy that the public liability section of the policy didnt cover K for any damage or injury
arising out of, or in connection with, any treatments, she wouldnt have taken it out.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ks complaint. She didnt think Xbridge had done anything
wrong when selling the policy. K disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to
look at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. Ill explain why.
When selling the policy, Xbridge didnt provide Mrs Y (on behalf of K) with any advice. So, it
didnt have to ensure that the policy was suitable for K.
However, it still had an obligation to provide Mrs Y clear, fair and not misleading information
about the main terms of the policy to enable her to make an informed decision about
whether the policy was right for K.
The policy Xbridge sold K can provide public liability insurance in the event of injury to
any person other than an employee if such injury arises out of and in the course of their
employment by K.
However, the schedule of insurance contains various endorsements; one of which excludes
public liability for:
Injury or damage arising out of or in connection with:
a. The provision of advice or any plan, design, formula or specification given separately
for a fee or for which a fee is normally charged;
b. Breach of professional duty or malpractice of any nature by (K) or on (Ks) behalf;
c. Any treatment used, practised or performed by (K) or on (Ks) behalf other than when
performing first aid;
d. The sale, supply or administration of drugs, medicines or chemicals of any kind by
(K) or on (Ks) behalf.
I refer to this as the endorsement.
The effect of the endorsement is that K didnt have the benefit of public liability insurance for
any injury or damage caused by any hair treatments carried out by staff at the hair salon
operated by K.
Im not currently satisfied this was made clear to Mrs Y in a fair and not misleading way
when taking out the policy in January 2019, or later, when she was sold the same policy two
months later (the policy having been cancelled for non-payment of the insurance premium).
Ive seen the questions Mrs Y wouldve been asked when taking out the policy online in
January 2019 and shes asked to confirm that the treatments and services carried out in Ks
salon didnt include a prescribed list of treatments such as cosmetic treatments, tattooing
and piercing. Mrs Y was also asked to confirm that all treatments and services were carried
out by, or under the supervision of, a qualified person. She correctly answered these
statements. The online application also states public liability insurance protects you if you
injure someone or damage their property in the course of running your business.
At the end of the online process Mrs Y is presented with links to certain documents which
she has to click on including the policy terms and schedule of insurance which contains the
endorsement, amongst others.
Mrs Y has told us that she read the exclusions relating to the public liability section of the
policy and believed that the endorsement related to medical treatments which Ks business
didnt offer customers. Looking at the terms of the endorsement in conjunction with the
questions she was asked online  including the ones Ive set out above  Im currently
persuaded by what she says.
Further, Im currently satisfied that the exclusion relating to treatments wasnt made any
clearer after Xbridge cancelled the policy and Mrs Y called to take it out again. During that
call shes asked by the representative whether shed like him to run through the
endorsements again, and she declines. However, its for Xbridge to ensure that Mrs Y was
given clear, fair and not misleading information about the main terms of the policy  including
the main exclusions.
The more unusual or onerous the term, the greater prominence it should be given when the
policy is taken out. K operates a hair salon and apart from cutting hair, Im persuaded that
the other main part of the business is to provide hair treatments and its likely she wouldve
wanted K to be protected against any legal liabilities for injury or property damage arisingfrom hair treatments carried out by staff on customers. So had Mrs Y been told in a fair, clear
and not misleading way that the policy didnt provide public liability for this, Im currently
satisfied she wouldnt have taken it out.
In support, Ive seen the business protection insurance policies K had the benefit of before
taking out the policy and they provided public liability insurance for hair treatments. Mrs Y
has also provided us with a copy of the business protection insurance policy she took out on
behalf of K in December 2019 - after she cancelled the policy, and once shed been told that
the policy didnt provide public liability insurance for hair treatment. That policy also provides
cover for this.
I think its likely that had K been properly informed about the main terms of the policy, it
wouldve taken out a different business protection policy along the lines of the one bought in
December 2019. That policy cost slightly less than the annual premium of the policy.
I then set out what I was intending to direct Xbridge to do to put things right which included:
 instructing and paying a specialist loss adjuster to consider the county court claim 
bought against K for negligence arising out of the hair treatment carried out on the 
customer under a particular policy K had in place; 
if the loss adjuster concluded that claim is covered then Xbridge should settle the 
claim on behalf of K (or, if judgment has already been made in favour of the 
customer, to reimburse K any payment of the judgement amount together with 
interest); 
 if K has paid anything that the loss adjuster says Xbridge should reimburse, as part 
of the costs K has incurred in defending the county court claim, Xbridge should also 
pay interest on those amounts; and
instruct and pay a specialist loss adjuster to consider any future claims made against 
K for injury or damage arising out of treatments undertaken by Ks staff whilst the 
policy was in force which would otherwise been excluded, under a particular policy K 
had in place. And if the loss adjuster concludes cover is available, settle such claims 
on behalf of K.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider.
Mrs Y was happy that I was intending to uphold this complaint, but she made comments 
about how I was proposing Xbridge put things right, including:
if a loss adjuster is appointed and recommended that the claim should be settled, 
despite the legal advice received by Mrs Y that the claim against K isnt likely to 
succeed based on current evidence, it could cause further, ongoing, financial loss. 
Thats because a meritless claim would be settled and appear on Ks claims record 
and would have to be declared each year when taking out insurance, resulting in 
higher premiums. If settled the claim would have to be declared as a fault claim but if 
the claim is successfully defended, it wouldnt.
As K has had to engage a solicitor to defend the claim brought against it, its legal 
costs should be covered by Xbridge. Xbridge disagreed with my provisional decision. It raised several points in reply including:
The policy was initially sold to K online and the endorsements were available for 
Mrs Y to read prior to purchase and the endorsements contained in the policy 
documents couldve been reviewed by Mrs Y during the cooling off period. The 
endorsements werent hidden or hard to find and Mrs Y shouldve reasonably seen 
and read these. If she was unhappy with them, she couldve cancelled the policy. 
As the broker, its not involved in the writing of the documents or the endorsement, 
this lies with the Insurer directly. If I was upholding Ks complaint because the way 
the endorsement is worded, Xbridge isnt responsible for that.
When considering the endorsement in its entirety, it doesnt understand how Mrs Y 
would consider K exempt from it. 
Mrs Y hasnt been consistent in her account about what happened as she initially 
said she was told during the sales call that she was told that K would be covered in 
full for all treatments. But she is now saying the endorsements were unclear. 
Xbridge agrees that the sales process during the subsequent phone sale didnt meet 
the standard it expects from its consultants and theyre trained to read through all 
endorsements fully. But it also says the consultant did offer to go through the 
endorsements with Mrs Y and she declined. 
On Mrs Ys own case, she was fully aware of the endorsement in December 2019 
and that is when her claim was declined. But she chose to keep the policy until 
March 2020. 
Xbridge has also said that whilst it maintains it was right not to uphold Ks mis-sale complaint 
it suggested whether a goodwill gesture of £1,000 would be appropriate to take into account 
that the endorsements werent read out loud during the phone call. Our Service 
communicated this to Mrs Y and she declined on behalf of K.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes all the additional comments received from the parties and having done so, I 
remain satisfied Xbridge did mis-sell the policy to K.
Xbridge sold the policy to Mrs Y on behalf of K. So, it had an obligation to provide 
clear, fair and not misleading information about the main terms of the policy at the 
point of sale  that includes the policys main exclusions. And the more unusual or 
onerous a term, the greater prominence it should be given. For reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think she was given information about the endorsement 
in a clear, fair and not misleading way when buying the policy online. And had she 
been Im not persuaded she wouldve bought it.
Xbridges representative did ask Mrs Y whether they should go through the 
endorsements during the sales call which took place a couple of months later, after 
the policy had been cancelled for non-payment of premium. Although Mrs Y did decline, she could reasonably have assumed that the information she needed had 
been drawn to her attention in the previous sale  but it wasnt. And because Xbridge 
didnt provide it to her during this call it missed an opportunity to remedy that 
previous failing. Particularly given  for reasons set out in my provisional decision - I 
think Xbridges application form gave a misleading impression of what the policy 
would cover  and Mrs Y could reasonably have taken that information into account 
when looking through the other information she had.  
My decision is based on how the information about the main terms of the policy was 
given to Mrs Y  including the endorsement - when buying the policy; not how the 
terms were worded - or have been applied by the insurer when assessing the claim 
made under the policy.
Mrs Y has said she was expressly told treatments would be covered under the policy 
but having listened to the call that wasnt said. However, I dont think that means 
Xbridge didnt mis-sell the policy to her. It still had to comply with its regulatory 
obligations when selling the policy to her and for the reasons already set out, I dont 
think it did that. 
Ive seen evidence that Mrs Y requested the policy be cancelled in December 2019 
which is around the time she says she became aware of the extent of the 
endorsement. She also says she took out a different policy with a different insurance 
provider which did cover K for public liability in relation to treatments undertaken by 
salon staff. Shes provided documents to support this and Im persuaded by what she 
says.
Insurers have varying attitudes towards risks and different criteria when calculating 
insurance premiums. Had the policy provided cover for treatment and Mrs Y had 
made a claim on that policy to cover the legal action brought against K, I think its 
likely she will have needed to declare this claim (and any potential claims) on future 
policies, whether the merits of the proposed legal action were well-founded or not. 
I uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I dont think the gesture of goodwill payment Xbridge has suggested in response to my 
provisional decision fairly puts K back in the position it wouldve been in had Xbridge not 
mis-sold the policy to it. 
I direct Xbridge to:
A. instruct and pay a specialist loss adjuster* to consider the county court claim bought
against K for negligence arising out of the hair treatment carried out on the customer
in August 2019 under the same terms as those offered to K under its previous policy in force 
for the year preceding January 2019, setting aside any requirement for the claims to be
notified during the policy period;
B. if the loss adjuster concludes that claim is covered then Xbridge should settle the
claim on behalf of K (or, if the claim has now been concluded and judgment was
made in favour of the customer, to reimburse K any payment of the judgement
amount together with simple interest at 8% per year ** from the date on which thejudgement amount was paid to the date Xbridge makes payment to K);
C. if K has paid anything that the loss adjuster says Xbridge should reimburse, as part
of the costs K has incurred in defending the county court claim or will incur settling the claim 
 which for the avoidance of doubt includes its legal costs - Xbridge should also pay simple 
interest on such amounts at 8% per year simple** from the date on which the payments were 
made by K to the date on which Xbridge makes payment to K;
D. instruct and pay a specialist loss adjuster* to consider any future claims made
against K for injury or damage arising out of treatments undertaken by Ks staff whilst
the policy was in force (between the period March 2019 and when it was cancelled on 19 
December 2019) which would otherwise been excluded, under the business
protection insurance policy in force for the year preceding January 2019 (setting aside any
requirement for the claims to be notified during the policy period). And if the loss
adjuster concludes cover is available, settle such claims on behalf of K.
*When appointing a loss adjuster Xbridge should offer K the choice of two loss adjusters to
choose from.
**If Xbridge considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off corporation tax
from any interest paid, it should tell K how much its taken off. It should also give it a
certificate showing this if asked for one. That way it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Ks complaint and direct Xbridge Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman