DRN-1578986
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (T/A Halifax) blocked his debit card while he was 
abroad.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr B visited his local Halifax branch to explain that he would be travelling 
abroad and needed to use his debit card while away. He was advised that his debit card 
would not be blocked while he was abroad.
On 6 June 2019 Mr B travelled abroad. While there he attempted to use his debit card in 
order to pay for dental treatment that he was scheduled to have. However, his payment was 
declined as it had been blocked by Halifax. Mr B subsequently attempted to use his debit 
card withdraw cash from an ATM in order to pay for the treatment. But Halifax blocked that 
transaction too. This meant Mr B was unable to proceed with his dental treatment. 
Mr B wasnt happy he couldnt use his debit card  especially given that hed informed 
Halifax of his travel plans the month before and had been assured hed be able to use his 
debit card abroad. So, complained about what happened.  
After Halifax investigated Mr Bs concerns about his debit card, it said it had blocked his 
transaction for fraud prevention reasons. It explained its entitled to block a transaction in 
circumstances where it reasonably suspects fraudulent activity. 
Halifax didnt think it had made an error in blocking Mr Bs card. And it said it had made 
efforts to contact him to confirm the authenticity of his transaction but had been unable to 
reach him. So, it wasnt able to remove the restrictions on his card.
While Halifax didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about blocking his debit card it accepted it had 
given him incorrect information about being able to use his debit card abroad without any 
problems. It acknowledged Mr B had experienced poor service and credited his account with 
£42 compensation, which included £30 for the trouble and upset he had been caused and 
£12 towards his call costs. 
Being dissatisfied with Halifaxs response to his complaint, Mr B referred it to our service. 
But our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They thought Halifax had acted fairly and 
reasonably here in offering to resolve Mr Bs complaint. And they didnt think it had made an 
error in blocking his card. But Mr B disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced while abroad when Halifax blocked 
his debit card. I appreciate this caused him significant inconvenience given he was travelling abroad for the purposes for having dental treatment. And I understand he feels very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint.
I can see Mr B has gone to some trouble to provide our service with detailed submissions. I 
want to assure him that Ive read everything he has sent us. I hope he will understand if I 
dont address every comment hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider to be key to this complaint; namely whether Halifax made a mistake, or treated Mr 
B unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. 
There are two parts to Mr Bs complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
each issue separately.
The block that was placed on Mr Bs debit card
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially 
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. To do so a bank may block debit card payments if it reasonably suspects they 
are fraudulent.
I can appreciated that when Halifax blocked Mr Bs debit card it was an inconvenient and 
frustrating experience  especially given that this transaction was genuine. But, fraudsters 
often mimic genuine behaviour, which means banks sometimes decline genuine 
transactions. This can happen when a card is used both in the UK or abroad. 
Halifax isnt able to tell Mr B the reasons why his payment attracted a fraud check. But thats 
unsurprising as thats commercially sensitive information. I appreciate Mr B may feel this is 
unfair. However, Halifax is under no obligation to tell Mr B its reasons, as much as he wants 
to know. Our service cant tell it to share this information with him and I dont think itd be fair 
for me to ask Halifax to elaborate any further. 
What I can tell Mr B though is that, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Halifax had 
reason to suspect Mr Bs transaction wasnt authentic. And, in blocking his debit card, it 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of his account, which clearly outline that it can 
refuse to make a payment in the interests of account security and where it believes it is 
necessary to do so. Mr B accepted these terms when he opened the account. So it is fair 
and reasonable it now relies on these terms and conditions given each agreed to contract on 
this basis. 
I cant reasonably criticise Halifax for being vigilant to fraud or having processes in place to 
check the authenticity of debit card transactions. In this case, this was just as much for Mr 
Bs protection as it was for Halifax. In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied the block was applied appropriately and in good faith. It follows that I cant fairly 
conclude that Halifax made an error when it blocked Mr Bs debit card payment.
Ive thought about whether Halifax acted fairly in notifying Mr B it had blocked his card. I can 
see Halifax tried to contact Mr B by text message at 8:01 and 9:03 am on the day he tried to 
make his payment to query whether his transaction was authentic in line with its procedure. 
Mr B hasnt disputed these texts were sent to him. One hour later, as Halifax had received 
no response to those texts, it telephoned him. But it wasnt able to reach Mr B as his phone 
was off.  I think Halifax made prompt and reasonable efforts to contact Mr B.
I understand Mr B attempted to contact Halifax to query why his transaction had been 
declined but he said he couldnt make any international calls. I appreciate it must have been 
frustrating for Mr B not to be able to speak to Halifax. However, this isnt something I can 
fairly hold it responsible for.In this case Halifax had no way of knowing whether Mr Bs transaction was authentic until he 
was able to confirm it was genuine. As it wasnt able to confirm the circumstances of the 
payment with Mr B it wasnt able to remove the restrictions on his debit card. So, the block 
remained in place. In the circumstances, I cant fairly conclude this was unreasonable.
The advice Mr B was given in branch
Halifax doesnt dispute that it informed Mr B incorrectly that his debit card would not be 
blocked while he was abroad. It accepts providing incorrect information constituted poor 
service and its already paid Mr B £30 for the distress and inconvenience that caused.  I can 
see its also paid him £12 to cover his telephone expenses in discussing his concerns. 
Its clear Mr B doesnt think the sums paid adequately reflects his inconvenience and 
experience. So Ive considered whether the remedy Halifax offered is fair and reasonable. 
Having thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr B, Im satisfied that the £30 
trouble and upset award already paid by Halifax is a reasonable amount for the poor 
customer service he experienced. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its 
what I would have told Halifax to pay had no compensation been offered. 
Mr B says, as a result of what happened, he needs to make a further trip abroad to undergo 
his dental treatment. And hes also told our service about the impact not having dental 
surgery had on his health. While Im sorry to learn how Mr B was affected by what happened 
Ive already explained why Im satisfied Halifax didnt make an error in blocking his debit 
card. And this means I cant ask it to cover any expenses Mr B has already incurred or may 
incur in the future as a result of the restrictions that were placed on his card.
While Mr B may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation Halifax has already 
paid fairly recognises the impact its error had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
So, I wont be telling it to do any more here.
I understand Mr B feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
he will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve 
his dispute with Halifax informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr B any further 
with this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman