DRN-1772578
The complaint
Miss M has complained about a loan she took out through a company called MYJAR 
Limited. She says she was lent to irresponsibly and the loan caused her financial problems.
What happened
We now know that she took out one loan from MYJAR, in 2017. Ive enclosed a summary of 
her borrowing with MYJAR based on the information provided to us:
Loan Taken Out Amount Term Highest Repayment
1 29/07/2017 £825 6 £249
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Miss Ms complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss M could repay the loan she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
MYJAR told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Miss M, including 
assessing her income, expenditure and creditworthiness. Im not going to list everything it 
did but suffice to say Ive looked over the checks it carried out thoroughly. 
I see Miss M declared her net income (after tax) as £1,800 per month and she also provided 
details about her expenditure. On the basis of what Miss M herself declared to MYJAR, I 
think the repayments on the loan would have looked affordable. 
Overall however, the other checks MYJAR probably carried out would have revealed some, 
but certainly not all, of Miss Ms overall financial profile. MYJAR says that based on what 
was revealed by its checking procedure, the information showed that Miss M would be able 
to make the loan repayments she was committing to. 
Ive also looked carefully at what Miss M has said in response to our adjudicators view that 
this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I also accept that Miss M may have been experiencing 
difficulties elsewhere. But looking at all this through the lens of what MYJAR knew at the 
time, I think the checks it carried out indicated this loan was sustainable. So, Im afraid I 
dont think theres enough evidence to uphold this complaint. 
As Ive said above, our normal approach to these types of loan is that the early lending 
relationship usually means less thorough checks are proportionate. Im not aware that Miss 
Ms income  or what she herself told MYJAR at the point of application  revealed or 
suggested she was vulnerable. And none of the three issues Ive bullet-pointed above are 
apparent, so Im not going to deviate from that approach.
Whilst I agree its possible that more thorough financial checks could have exposed Miss Ms 
financial situation much better, she was still at the very beginning of a lending relationship 
with this particular business and there doesnt seem to be anything that would have caused 
MYJAR to think she was in financial trouble or might be unable to pay this loan back. In 
short, I think the checks carried out in this case were proportionate and Im afraid there isnt 
enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss M.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct MYJAR Limited to pay Miss M any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
Michael Campbell
 
Ombudsman