DRN-3815347
The complaint
Mr F complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on his 
motorhome insurance policy.
Where I refer to Highway, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold Highway responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a motorhome. 
In about March 2019, Mr F acquired the motorhome. He had a telephone call with a broker. 
Mr F insured the motorhome for a year. Highway was the insurer responsible for dealing with 
any claim. Mr F renewed the policy in March 2020 and again in March 2021.
On 21 September 2021, Mr F reported that someone had stolen the motorhome.
In late November 2021, Highways investigator interviewed Mr F and did a report. That 
included Mr Fs statement that he had left a spare key hidden in a wardrobe inside the 
vehicle. Highway declined the claim. Mr F complained to Highway about that.
By a final response dated mid-January 2022, Highway turned down the complaint. Highway 
said that its policy excluded the claim as a spare key had been left in the vehicle.
Mr F brought his complaint to us in February 2022.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Highway had declined the claim based on the policy exclusion, without a proper 
investigation. So she didnt think that it had declined the claim fairly. She recommended that 
Highway should:
1. settle the claim; and
2. pay 8% simple interest for the time Mr F has been without payment; and
3. pay Mr F a further £500.00 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Highway disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
The exclusion clause is common in most if not all motor policies, motorhome 
included.
Without the call being available any more from the broker, it cant say what was and 
wasnt advised.
It would be Mr Fs responsibility to read the policy terms and conditions.
Its investigators report included the following:
There was however no evidence that the security of the [motorhome] had 
been compromised and it is not therefore known if this key was used to 
facilitate the alleged theft.
Its investigator couldnt say how the vehicle was stolen. 
It cant say if the key in the motorhome was used to steal the vehicle, however nor 
can this be ruled out. For a vehicle of that size to be taken, with no evidence of 
forced entry (i.e. broken glass) and also when Mr F has advised it wouldnt start, is 
unusual.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mr F has told us, he and his wife sold their home and bought the motorhome in 
early 2019.
Highway has sent us a policy booklet with a reference that I think shows a date in May 2018. 
It contains an exclusion as follows:
What is not covered

Loss or damage caused by failure to protect the insured vehicle, (see Care of the 
Vehicle under the general conditions), or if it has been left unlocked and/or with the 
keys, lock transmitter, entry card or other ignition control device left in, on or in the 
immediate proximity of the vehicle.
Highway says that its exclusion is common in motor policies. But Highways policy term 
excludes a claim where the vehicle has been left unlocked and/or with the keysleft inthe 
vehicle. I consider that the and/or meant that leaving the vehicle unlocked and leaving the 
keys in it were two alternative exclusions. I consider that this was a significant policy term.
Highway has also sent us the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). That 
summarised the policy terms including as follows:
what is not insured 

theft if you leave your vehicle unlocked, with a window or sun roof open, with vehicle 
keys or other ignition device in, on or in the immediate proximity of the vehicle
Whilst the IPID contained repetition of the word or, it didnt use that word to say that leaving 
the vehicle unlocked and leaving the keys in it were two alternative exclusions. So Im not 
satisfied that Highway did enough in 2019 to draw to Mr Fs attention that the policy didnt 
cover theft if he locked the vehicle but left a key in the back. 
It may or may not be relevant background that the motorhome was at an accident repair 
centre for most of August 2021.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Fs statement that on 20 September 2021, he parked the 
motorhome on a side street. And that evening, Mr F found that the key fob wouldnt work, so 
he used a key to get into the motorhome, but the key wouldnt start the vehicle. So he locked 
it and left it on the street for the night.I have no reason to doubt Mr Fs statement that the motorhome had been parked in a 
position inaccessible to any recovery vehicle. Yet on 21 September 2021, there was no 
broken glass or debris on the street, but the motorhome had gone. 
So Mr F suspected some wrongdoing at the accident repair centre, leading to the 
immobilisation and theft of the motorhome. Mr F and Highway mentioned this to local police 
but received no information from them.
So Highway instructed its investigator. The investigator expressed no concern about Mr Fs 
evidence.
The investigator recommended that Highway should get the police report. But Im not 
persuaded that the police had done any investigation, so I dont think their report wouldve 
shed much light on what had happened.
The investigator also recommended that an expert should examine the key Mr F still had. I 
dont think Highway accepted that recommendation. Instead, Highway declined the claim on 
the ground that Mr F had left the spare key in the vehicle.
I dont consider that was fair for the following reasons:
Im not satisfied that Highway did enough in 2019 to draw to Mr Fs attention that the 
policy didnt cover theft if he locked the vehicle but left a key in the back.
Theres not enough evidence that the presence of the spare key made it possible or 
made it easier for someone to steal the motorhome.
The theft and the need to make a claim were bound to cause distress and inconvenience. 
But I conclude that Highway shouldve paid Mr Fs claim in 2021. 
Its failure to pay the claim left Mr F without the money to replace the motorhome as a means 
of transport and as a mobile home. 
Mrs F wasnt covered by the policy. So I cant consider the impact on her. But I find it fair to 
say that Mr F suffered distress and inconvenience including sharing what she suffered.
Highway didnt try to put things right  even after our investigators recommendation. So the 
distress and inconvenience has gone on for about a year.
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Highway to pay the claim subject to the policy terms 
save any terms relating to keys left in the vehicle.
As Mr F has been out of pocket since he made the claim, I find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Highway to add interest at our usual rate.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Highway to pay Mr F £500.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Highway Insurance Company Limited to:
1. pay Mr Fs claim in line with the policy terms save any terms relating to keys left in 
the vehicle; and2. pay Mr F simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on any sum it pays him in settlement 
of his claim. if Highway considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. pay Mr F £500.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman