DRN-4380903
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill summarise the key 
facts here.
In October 2019 Mr F was interested in exploring new business ventures. He found some  
opportunities he liked the sound of whilst searching online, using a website specifically for 
the purpose of buying businesses and franchises. 
Mr F contacted a seller from the website and went through the details of several 
opportunities. He decided to go ahead and buy into three franchises and made payment to a 
limited company Ill call P. His understanding was that three websites would be set up for 
him and that these would generate revenue through advertising.
Mr F hadnt received any revenue after a few months and so contacted P to find out what 
was happening. It explained that covid-19 had caused issues in launching the websites and 
generating earnings. Mr F continued to wait.
As no further contact was received  and no earnings were paid  Mr F pressed P for 
answers again. But he received little to no response despite numerous emails and chasers. 
Mr F was eventually told he couldnt have a refund but that P would try to resell his websites. 
But no sale and so funds materialised. So Mr F reported to Bank of Scotland that hed been 
scammed.
Bank of Scotland looked at what had happened but said it couldnt help. It felt that Mr F had 
a civil dispute with P for not delivering the goods and services promised, rather than it being 
a case of him having been scammed. 
Mr F was unhappy with the banks response and brought his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered all the evidence and felt Bank of Scotland had reached a fair 
and reasonable outcome. She said that P appeared to have been operating as a legitimate 
business at the time and there was insufficient evidence to suggest it had set out to scam 
Mr F.
The complaint has now been passed to me as Mr F didnt agree with the investigators 
findings.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F further, but Im reaching the same outcome as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. Im satisfied this is a case of a civil dispute between Mr F 
and P.
As the payments were properly authorised from his account, in line with the terms and 
conditions as well as the Payment Service Regulations 2017, there are no grounds on which 
I can say Bank of Scotland ought to refund him. 
Mr F has referred to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. And its true the Code does offer protection to consumers that have fallen 
victim to a scam. But as Ive found this wasnt a scam, the Code doesnt apply. And that 
includes any requirement for Halifax to have given Mr F scam warnings before he made his 
payments.    
I dont doubt that Mr F hasnt received what he paid for. And it seems quite clear hes been 
mistreated and let down by P. But thats not the same as him having been scammed by it.
Ive seen some of the account statements for P, demonstrating payments to be expected of 
running a genuine business. And Ive considered that it was legitimately registered with 
Companies House. Its also evident from online searches it had employees, albeit some of 
whom appear to have had genuine grievances against P. But a company being poorly run, 
perhaps even engaging in sharp practice, doesnt establish it as an entity created to scam 
people. 
I know Mr F has carried out a lot of research into the directors that sit behind P. Hes found 
numerous limited companies that have been set up and shut down. Mr F believes this 
demonstrates that those directors are regularly engaged in defrauding people. But Im not 
persuaded theres sufficient evidence to that effect. And it doesnt establish that Mr F was 
being deliberately scammed at the time he made his payments to P.
I cant say why P didnt deliver what it was supposed to to Mr F. Its possible the explanation 
he received from it, the impact of covid-19, is true. But overall, Im not persuaded a scam 
has taken place. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman