DRN-3254613
The complaint
 Mrs I has complained that TSB Bank plc failed to close her basic cash account when she
asked it to in August 2019.
Background
 Mrs I had a Basic Cash account with TSB which she opened in May 2019. Mrs I has told us
that she is a gambling addict and that this has resulted in her losing thousands of pounds
through online gambling transactions. Prior to opening the basic cash account in May 2019,
Mrs I held a number of other accounts with TSB. Primarily a savings account, which had no
linked debit card and before that a Classic account, which had previously been a Silver
account and had been opened in 2014 originally.
Mrs I has told us that her Silver account was downgraded to a Classic in 2017 because she
had built up arrears on it due to her compulsive gambling. She has said that once the
account was downgraded she was of the opinion TSB had applied warnings to her account
to ensure she wasnt able to open another account that would give her access to a debit
card. She said this was because she was worried if she was given a debit card she would
use it for gambling and her debt would increase.
Mrs I has said that in May 2019, despite her belief she was barred from opening a new
account, she was able to apply for, and get, a Basic Cash account with the bank. She
thought this was probably a result of the IT issues the bank experienced prior to that and as
a result of opening this new account she was issued with a new debit card. Mrs I has said
that she then started transferring large amounts of money from her savings account into her
new Basic Cash account which she ultimately lost through online gambling.
Mrs I has told us she contacted the bank via an online form in August 2019 to explain what
was happening and ask it to close her account. She was very distressed that she was
gambling through the account despite registering with different support networks outside of
the bank. She said she was told she had to go into branch to close the account, which she
says she did in November 2019, only to be turned away because she didnt have the correct
forms of identification with her.
She has confirmed she called TSB in January 2020 and made a complaint about what was
happening and the problems she was experiencing with getting the account closed. Her
complaint was logged but she was still able to continue to use the account for gambling,
which she doesnt believe was fair as she never activated the linked debit card in an ATM.
After making the complaint to TSB the account was eventually closed in March 2020.
TSB responded to Mrs Is complaint explaining that although her Silver account was
downgraded to a Classic account in 2017 and eventually defaulted, it was unaware that the
debt was the result of a gambling addiction. It has said that the first time Mrs I explicitly told
the bank that she had a gambling problem was when she contacted it in August 2019 to
complain she had been able to use the debit card from the Basic Cash account despite not
knowing the PIN or having activated the card at an ATM. She logged a complaint asking the
bank to refund all the transactions she had made to gambling sites since shed opened the
account in May 2019.
TSB replied explaining that debit cards could be used for online transactions without the PIN
or needing to have been used at an ATM. It explained that in order to close the account Mrs
I would either need to go into a branch with the relevant forms of ID or submit a request in
writing. The letter included links to the banks website where she could start the process.
It says Mrs I complained to the bank again in October 2019, after she was told it wasnt
possible for the bank to apply a gambling block to her account as that wasnt a service it
provided to its customers. She again asked why the account was still open when she had
asked for it to be closed in August. She repeated her request for TSB to refund all of the
losses she had accrued since she opened the account in May 2019.
However TSB didnt reply to the complaint raised by Mrs I in October and unfortunately she
continued to gamble.
In January 2020 Mrs I contacted TSB twice, by phone and email, over two consecutive days
again asking for help closing her account. She explained in detail to the person she spoke to
what was happening with her gambling, the impact it was having on her life and her
childrens lives. She explained she was becoming increasingly desperate and had
considered suicide the year before. This time TSB accepted there was more it couldve done
to help Mrs I in regard to her gambling problem. It completed its review of her complaint in
March 2020 and agreed to refund all the gambling transactions that took place between 22
January 2020 and 28 March 2020 when it eventually closed Mrs Is Basic Cash account.
Mrs I remained unhappy as she felt TSB should have refunded all of the transactions from
May 2019 onwards. So she brought her complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 December 2021. In it I found that TSB couldve done 
more to support Mrs I and help her. I said that it needed to backdate its refund from 7 
January 2020 to 16 October 2019 and refund all gambling transactions that left Mrs Is 
account after 16 October 2019 until it was closed on 28 March 2020. I said that if it could 
verify any gambling winnings that came into her account during that time it could deduct 
these from the overall refund.
I also asked the bank to pay Mrs I an additional £400 compensation in acknowledgement of 
the distress and upset caused by the banks failure to support her adequately. I asked both 
parties to respond by 11 January 2022.
Mrs I accepted the findings of the provisional decision.
TSB didnt reply to the provisional decision.
Findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As neither party has raised any additional points for me to consider following the provisional 
decision, my opinion on the complaint remains the same. For the sake of clarity, I will include 
a summary of those findings again. 
Mrs I has said that in 2017, when her Silver account was downgraded, and eventually
defaulted due to the arrears that had built up on it, TSB knew she vulnerable and that the
debt she owed the bank was the result of her compulsive gambling. She says that she
believed there was a block in place from 2017 onwards that prevented her from opening anaccount with a debit card because of her history of compulsive spending. She says the only
reason she was able to open a new account in May 2019 was because of the IT problems
the bank had experienced before that.
Ive looked carefully at the notes on Mrs Is account from 2017 when it was downgraded and
eventually defaulted. Having done so I cant see any reference to the fact that she was
gambling, although I do agree it was apparent from her statements at the time. From the
notes added to her account it would seem that most of the conversations Mrs I was having
with the bank around the time the first account was closed were about payments that had
been made into it and whether or not she was entitled to access those funds. So, while I can
sympathise with why Mrs I assumed the bank wouldve been aware of her gambling problem
at this time, bearing in mind its the reason the account ended up defaulting, I cant see
anything on the account notes that say the issue was explicitly discussed with the bank or
that it was put on notice at that time.
Ive also considered how it was that Mrs I was able to open a new account with TSB in May
2019 when her previous account had defaulted. TSB has said it has no way of controlling
who opens accounts with it online. I do query that as it seems unlikely the bank doesnt have
processes in place to review applications before accepting them. And the default that had
been applied to Mrs Is credit file for unpaid debt to TSB was less than two years old at the
point of application. But I accept there was no way TSB couldve known what Mrs Is
intentions were when she opened the account in May 2019. And although Mrs I was of the
opinion she would be prevented from opening a new cash account, I cant see anything in
the notes from 2017 that indicates this was said to her at the time. So, I cant reasonably say
TSB were at fault for allowing her to open a new account in May 2019.
This brings me to the next relevant date in Mrs Is complaint, which is 8 August 2019 when
she sent an email telling the bank about her gambling addiction, her confusion as to why she
had been able to use her debit card despite not knowing the PIN and her request that the
bank either block all the gambling transactions or close the account.
TSB responded to this email with a letter on 9 September 2019 that clarifies why she was
able to use her debit card online despite never having used it in an ATM. It also states it
takes no responsibility for her gambling losses as she admits she transferred the money
herself. Finally, it said she could close the account by going to a branch or submitting the
request in writing. It also sign-posted her to some gambling services that may be able to
offer her support.
The next date Mrs I got in touch with TSB was 16 October 2019 when she again emailed the
bank asking why the account was still open when she had already asked for it to be closed.
She again repeats her request for TSB to refund her gambling losses, stating she is very
vulnerable and doesnt believe the bank has properly supported her. She accuses the bank
of failing to understand the damage done by not closing the account as she had asked it to
do in her August email.
Unfortunately, TSB never responded to this email. Mrs I has told us she attended a branch in 
November 2019 to close the account but was unable to do so because she didnt have the 
correct forms of identification with her. Although there is no note of this on TSBs systems, I 
have no reason to doubt that this took place as Mrs I says it did.
The next time Mrs I contacts TSB is 7 January 2020 when she has a detailed conversation
with an advisor about her addiction, how it has impacted her, her family and her mental
health. From the notes on TSBs systems it is clear that by this time Mrs I is very distressed
and feels she has repeatedly asked for her account to be closed without that request being
actioned by TSB. She says she is now attending a gambling support group and had beentold a fundamental aspect of her recovery is the closure of the account as it only serves to
enable her gambling. She emails the bank again the following day, saying her addiction is
destroying her life and accuses the bank of ignoring her requests for help.
TSB log her complaint and the notes indicate it was being considered between 13 January
2020 and 27 March 2020 when the bank agrees to uphold her complaint in part, refunding all
of her gambling losses from 22 January 2020 to 27 March 2020. The account was closed the
following day.
I think the bank shouldve responded sooner to Mrs Is requests for help, and that it clearly 
failed to take her extreme vulnerability into consideration. In her first email in August 2019 
Mrs I explicitly tells the bank that she has a severe gambling problem and asks it to either 
apply a block or close her account. TSB respond by telling her she needs to submit her 
request to have her account closed in writing. But Mrs I thinks shes already done that. Her 
email in August asked for the account to be closed if the gambling blocks couldnt be 
applied.
The next time Mrs I emails, on 16 October 2019 it is clear she is very confused and had
expected her account to be closed by now. She states in that email she has already asked
for the bank to close the account in writing, alluding to the email she had sent in August. I 
think by this time its clear Mrs I hasnt understood the instructions given in the banks
response from the previous month. And I think it is at this point TSB shouldve done more to
help her. I believe if it had intervened at this point it wouldve prevented her from losing even 
more money to gambling websites.
The fact that TSB didnt respond at all to this email is very concerning. Mrs I was clearly very
distressed and vulnerable. Had the bank responded in writing or with a call explaining 
exactly what needed to be done or started the process of closing the account over the phone 
for her, it couldve made a significant difference to the harm Mrs I experienced. And while I 
appreciate the bank may feel it has specific processes in place for account closures, even
applying a general block to stop all transactions on the account while it arranged for it to be
closed wouldve been useful here. Given Mrs I was exclusively using the account for
gambling and no other household bills were being run through it, there was no associated
risk with applying a full block onto the account until it was closed.
Putting things right
Therefore, I think TSB should back date its refund from 7 January 2020 to 16 October 2019 
and refund all gambling transactions that left Mrs Is account after 16 October 2019 until it 
was closed on 28 March 2020. If it can verify any gambling winnings that came into the 
account during that time it can deduct these from the overall refund.
In addition to the refund of gambling losses TSB should pay Mrs I £400 in recognition of the 
distress it has caused by its failure to provide her with adequate support at a time when she 
was extremely vulnerable and proactively asking for help. It is an extremely difficult
thing for someone in the midst of an addiction to ask for help and vocalise what they are
going through. The fact that Mrs I had to ask for this help four times (twice by email, once in
branch and again over the phone) before TSB responded is an enormous failing on the part
of the bank and had devastating consequences for Mrs I. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above I uphold Mrs Is complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman