DRN-4299711
The complaint
Mr D has complained about delays he feels Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) 
caused in actioning his request to withdraw his Tax-Free Cash out of his pension. As 
a result of this he feels he has suffered significant financial loss which he wants 
Quilter to recompense him for.
What happened
On 8 February 2020 Mr D sent an email to his adviser at Quilter confirming that he 
wanted to access to his maximum Tax-Free Cash (TFC) from his pension following 
concerns that he had with possible changes to the upcoming government Budget.
Mr Ds adviser responded the same day to confirm that he would send over some 
paperwork to Mr D to start the process of actioning this request.
Mr D didnt receive any paperwork and chased this with his adviser on 15 February 
2020. 
His adviser confirmed hed been out of the office but would make sure the paperwork 
was sent to Mr D as soon as possible. The relevant paperwork was sent to Mr D on 
17 February 2020 and he completed and returned this to Quilter on 21 February 
2020.
Mr Ds adviser conducted a fact-find meeting to evaluate the suitability of Mr Ds 
request on 26 February 2020. After this meeting the adviser compiled the relevant 
report and prepared a suitability report for Quilters Business Assurance Team to 
review  all necessary procedures that Quilter has said needed to be completed 
before the withdrawal request could be finalised. The final version of the report was 
submitted on 2 March 2020.
The adviser has said that given Mr Ds concerns around the impending Budget and 
possible changes that could affect the withdrawal he submitted the request to Mr Ds 
platform provider, that I will refer to a Business B, on 5 March 2020 so that it would 
be received well before the Budget on 11 March 2020. 
It was indeed received on 6 March and Business B started processing the request on 
7 March 2020. 
Quilter has said that in normal circumstances the withdrawal would have been 
processed on 10 March 2020.
However, as there was a holding in the ex-Woodford fund and trading in that fund 
had been suspended, Business B referred back to Quilter for agreement that the 
Woodford fund could be temporarily separated from the plan value in order to 
process the withdrawal request. 
The Business B request was received on 9 March 2020 and Quilter confirmed 
consent the next day.
The segregation was processed on 11 March 2020, and the withdrawal was formally
initiated on 12 March.
The Benefit Crystallisation Event was logged on Friday 13 March 2020 and the units 
sold on 16 March 2020.
The case finally received approval from the Business Assurance Team on 19 March 
2020.
Mr D raised a compliant with Quilter following this as he felt that he had been 
financially disadvantaged due to the time taken to process his request.
Quilter felt that it had not caused an unreasonable or avoidable delay when 
processing Mr Ds request and rejected his complaint. 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators, he agreed with Quilter for 
broadly the same reasons that it hadnt caused or contributed to any unnecessary or 
unavoidable delays in actioning Mr Ds withdrawal request.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators outcome. Mr D has submitted a detailed 
response to the investigators findings, and while I assure Mr D that I have reviewed 
this in detail, in the interest of keeping my findings relevant and succinct I have 
summarised the main points he disagreed with below:
His instruction was not actioned promptly
He disagreed that the transaction was not straight-forward
While no guarantee was given regarding the transfer completing before 
11 March 2020, he felt his expectations were not properly managed 
That Quilter cant discount the delays caused by Business B as a 
separate legal entity 
When considering FCA guidelines Mr D determined his request should 
have been processed within two and a half weeks
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant, law and regulations; regulatory rules; guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, Ive reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Furthermore, while Ive noted the specific codes Mr D has highlighted that he feels 
are relevant, my findings will apply those which I find relevant to the complaint at 
hand.
When this Service considers a complaint regarding delays and their impact, we take 
a holistic approach and where any actions in the process were delayed we consider 
the reason for the delay. We also consider if actions or requests were 
replied/actioned within a reasonable time frame. 
So while Mr D has stated that the transfer should have completed before 11 March 
2020 there is no specific guidance that defines how long this kind of transaction 
should take, and instead I must consider if the process itself was unreasonably 
delayed or if actions should have been completed sooner than what they were. 
Mr D has argued that his request needed to be actioned promptly  and he 
disagreed with the investigators determination that the withdrawal process only 
became actionable on 25 February 2020.  
Firstly I agree that the process started on 8 February 2020, while other actions 
including the final consent from Mr D may have all been required, ultimately Mr Ds 
adviser is clear in his response to Mr D that he has acknowledged the request and 
will start the TFC withdrawal process. 
To begin the process there were some forms that Mr D needed to complete. Mr D 
didnt receive these forms until 17 February 2020. But I know that Mr D had been 
abroad during this week, and he told our investigator that its likely he would have 
only actioned the paperwork after his return on 13 February 2020. This is further 
supported by the fact that Mr D only emailed his adviser on 15 February to enquire 
about the forms and some documentation needed to be posted back to Quilter.
So it seems to that even if the adviser had sent the paperwork before this date Mr D 
was unlikely to have returned this much sooner than he actually did which was on 21 
February 2020. Therefore, while the forms were not sent when agreed and Mr D did 
have to chase for them it doesnt look like that would have made a significant 
difference to the progress of his withdrawal.Mr D has questioned the need for the suitability report and the time it took to action, 
but Quilter acting in its role as adviser did have a responsibility to conduct a proper 
suitability assessment before endorsing the withdrawal. I note Mr D says he didnt 
receive a copy of this report, but I have seen it and this twenty-seven-page report 
details all Mr Ds specific circumstances and reasons for the withdrawal being 
suitable. And as this step was a regulatory requirement it cant be seen as having 
caused or added to a potential delay.
Its important to point out that the adviser did attempt to speed up the transfer 
process by submitting the request to Business B before the approval from Quilters 
Business Assurance Team was received. The adviser didnt have to do this and 
Quilter has agreed normal procedure would have been to first obtain approval from 
the Business team. So the adviser took steps to help Mr Ds request meet his 
required deadline. And while Ive noted what Mr D has said about additional 
questions from Quilters Business team that should have been addressed sooner, 
ultimately this doesnt appear to have impacted the date on which his fund was 
crystalised, due to his advisers actions.
After submitting the necessary information to Business B the issue around the ex-
Woodford fund arose. I understand why Mr D feels this was an additional avoidable 
delay, but I disagree that this had an unreasonable impact on the process as a 
whole. Mr D also feels that as the adviser knew of the investment into the ex-
Woodford fund Business B should have been notified of this upon the adviser 
submitting the request, rather than wait for Business B to discover this. But it seems 
that Quilter felt Mr D had sufficient holdings outside of the Woodford fund to cover 
his withdrawal so didnt think it would be an issue. Furthermore, Quilter wasnt aware 
of the separation requirement in order for Business B to process the withdrawal until 
a later date. This isnt unreasonable given Quilter and Business B are different firms 
and regardless of the connection between them each firm will understandably have 
their own processes to adhere to. Therefore, I dont think Quilter could have done 
anything in advance of submitting the request to speed this part of the process up. 
Separation of the Woodford fund by Business B was the only way the withdrawal 
could happen. And when Business B informed Quilter of this requirement on 9 March 
2020 Quilter didnt delay in agreeing to this on 10 March 2020, so I dont think there 
was any unnecessary delay on Quilters part.
I know Mr D also feels that Quilter failed to properly manage his expectations 
regarding the withdrawal process. Specifically, that his adviser told him this should 
finalise before 11 March 2020. 
However, having considered what Mr D has said and reviewing the information 
I have from Quilter, I disagree that this alone created a reasonable expectation that 
the transaction would complete before 11 March. The adviser said that the 
transaction should go through in time but didnt guarantee anything. The adviser did 
also explain in his email  
Life is a bit more longwinded in the Quilter world so there will be a few hoops to 
jump through to satisfy the myriad Compliance requirements regarding Suitability, 
etcSo I think it was made clear that there would be some requirements to go through 
before the transaction would be completed. And it looks like the adviser did try to 
manage Mr Ds expectations from the outset that the process itself wouldnt be 
particularly quick or simple despite what Mr D thinks. The fact he was a longstanding 
client of Quilter doesnt mean that regulatory requirements can be ignored. 
Its also worth discussing the reasons behind Mr Ds instruction and desire to have 
the TFC withdrawal processed before 11 March 2020. 
The catalyst for this was concerns that Mr D had regarding the upcoming Budget and 
possible changes that would be made which would potentially affect the amounts of 
TFC he could access from his pension. 
Ultimately no changes were made to the budget which directly affected Mr D or this 
specific TFC withdrawal. And the complaint was raised due to Mr D noting the value 
of his fund decreasing during the process of actioning the TFC  specifically that the 
funds value was approximately £100,000 higher around 11 March compared to 13 
March 2020. 
So, it would seem that the complaint is being made with the benefit of hindsight in 
that Mr D could see and compare the value of his fund on these specific dates.
However, as I explained there is not a set or pre-determined timeline within which 
regulations specify such a transaction needs to take place. To determine that a delay 
occurred our service would have to be satisfied that the business caused or 
contributed to delays which were either avoidable or unnecessary. 
And having reviewed the timeline of events in this complaint I am satisfied that 
Quilter did not cause a delay which has caused Mr D a financial loss, so I will not be 
directing it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman