DRN-4423045
The complaint
Ms R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wouldnt refund money she lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Ms R says:
In 2021, Ms R was looking for ways to improve her financial security and, in the longer term, 
to be able to leave money to her grown up children. She saw a pop-up advertisement on 
social media which said people could invest as little as £200 and still make returns. She 
clicked on the advert and found the service was provided by an investment firm (which I will 
call A).
Ms R explored As website and it appeared genuine and professional. She was contacted by 
an advisor who seemed charismatic and reassuring. He said he had worked in the finance 
industry for more than 20 years. He built a rapport with Ms R. 
The advisor downloaded software onto her computer so he could remotely access her crypto 
wallet, and then move funds to A to help her trade. He advised her to open bank accounts 
(with bank X and later, with Monzo), together with the crypto wallet accounts. Ms R 
authorised him to do that. 
A first, small deposit was made by payment from her bank account with another bank (which 
I will call Z) to Ms Rs crypto wallet. She then saw the credit appear in her account at 
investment firm A, and saw it made good returns. The adviser could access Ms Rs account 
with A and traded with her money. She then went ahead and made further deposits.
The advisor then opened a loan facility within As portal for £40,000  without her authority 
 to invest this sum. The adviser said Ms R had to pay off the loans and otherwise, debt 
collectors would visit her.
Ms R didnt want to be in debt and took out loans totalling £50,000 with four third party loan 
companies to pay off the loan with A. The adviser controlled her computer and applied for 
the loans on her behalf. The advisor said the loans were then paid off the loans with A, but 
then said she was still £40,000 in debt  he said because of the accumulated interest and 
because of the successful trades he had placed. The adviser put more pressure on Ms R to 
pay the further debt off.
The proceeds of the four loans (£50,000) were paid into her account with bank Z, and 
payments were then made from her account with bank Z to her account with bank X. The 
funds were then transferred from bank X to Ms Rs crypto wallet with a payment service 
provider. The advisor (who had control of Ms Rs computer) then transferred the funds to 
investment firm A.
Ms R allowed the adviser to access her computer to apply for a further loan with bank Z  in 
July 2021, but this was declined. Ms R later took out a secured mortgage with another firm 
for £39,853 (under guidance or control of the advisor) and this was drawn on 10 December 
2021. It was paid into Ms Rs account with bank Z.
Then, in December 2021, the adviser told Ms R to open an account with Monzo - he said it 
was easier to make payments from that bank. Under his guidance, Ms R opened her 
account with Monzo. From bank Z, the loan funds were sent to Ms Rs account with Monzo, 
and payments were made to Ms Rs crypto wallet account with a payment service provider. 
The funds were then transferred to the investment firm A  by the adviser. 
There were three banks involved in this scam  bank Z,  bank X and Monzo and I set out the 
receipts and payments for all three for clarity:
There were two periods in the scam:
Period one:
This didnt involve Monzo, but a summary that took place involving bank Z is:
Total loans received into bank Z  July 2021 (£50,000)
Payments from bank Z to Ms Rs account with Bank X  July 2021 £50,020
Payments from bank Z direct to Ms Rs account with payment 
service provider  crypto wallet£2,242.93
Total payments £52,262.93
(continued)
Period two: 
This involved Monzo:
Date Payment type Beneficiary Amount
18 December 2021 Faster payment from 
bank ZMs Rs account  Monzo (£10,000)
18 December 2021 Faster payment from 
bank ZMs Rs account  Monzo (£5,000)
18 December 2021 Faster payment from Ms Rs account  Monzo (£100)bank Z
18 December 2021 Faster payment from 
bank ZMs Rs account  Monzo (£10,000)
18 December 2021 Faster payment from 
bank ZMs Rs account  Monzo (£10,000)
18 December 2021 Faster payment from 
bank ZMs Rs account  Monzo (£3,000)
18 December 2022 Faster payment from 
MonzoMs Rs account  payment service 
provider  crypto wallet£10,000
19 December 2022 Faster payment from 
MonzoMs Rs account payment service 
provider  crypto wallet£10,000
20 December 2022 Faster payment from 
MonzoMs Rs account  payment service 
provider  crypto wallet£9,999
20 December 2022 Faster payment from 
MonzoMs Rs account  payment service 
provider  crypto wallet£8,100
Total £38,099
After the amounts were sent to A, Ms R asked for funds to be withdrawn from A, but that 
wasnt possible. Contact with the adviser stopped. Ms R realised she had been the victim of 
a scam. Ms R contacted Monzo on 10 January 2023 to advise them of the scam.
Ms R says the scam has destroyed her life. She has lost the money she wanted to invest for 
her children, who she feels no longer trust her. She suffers from sleepless nights and is 
emotionally distressed. She has taken out loans totalling £88,000 with six lenders and is 
struggling to make the payments. One loan is secured in her house. As a result, she is 
having to work longer hours to make ends meet.
What Monzo said:
Monzo said they werent liable to refund the money. This was because:
- Ms R authorised the payments.
- The payments were to Ms Rs own account  her crypto wallet, and it was from there 
that the funds were transferred to A. So  she should contact the provider of the 
wallet.
- Monzo provided a warning to Ms R when she made the first payment of £10,000. 
This said the payment could be a scam. But Ms R clicked that she had read the information and confirmed she wanted to go ahead. She didnt go for the option to 
stop and get advice.
- They said they provided information about scams on their website.
- Ms R only communicated with the scammer virtually and didnt meet the adviser.
- She didnt carry out sufficient due diligence  e.g. checking Companies House or the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website.
- Ms R didnt question the loan taken out with A, why it led to an increase in returns, or 
why she had to take-out third-party loans.
Our investigation so far:
Ms R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Monzo shouldve intervened in the 
first payment but didnt. He didnt think the online scam warning presented to Ms R at that 
stage was sufficient. If Monzo had stopped the first payment and asked questions, the scam 
wouldve likely been uncovered and the subsequent payments not made. 
But he said that bank Z should share some of Ms Rs losses - as they were the bank that 
initially sent the funds to Monzo. He said Monzo should be liable for 50% of losses - 
£19,049.50, with bank Z being liable for the other 50%.
But he also said that Ms R couldve done more to protect herself. He said she didnt carry 
out enough due diligence  there were many reports online about A at the time. And A 
wasnt regulated by the FCA either. She had taken advice from an unknown party whose 
details originated from the internet; she co-operated in taking out six loans to pay back loans 
the adviser had apparently set up on As portal  this wasnt a responsible thing to do.
So  he said Ms R should bear 50% of those loses, so Monzo should pay £9,524.75.
During our investigation, bank X agreed to meet 80% of the losses due to payments made 
by that firm  they refunded £40,016 of the payments made from bank X  which totalled 
£50,000.Ms R accepted the findings, but Monzo didnt  and asked that an ombudsman look 
at the complaint.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Ms R has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Ms R didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Ms Rs own account with the 
payment service provide - her crypto wallet.
I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms R when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first consideration here is: If the payments were of a sufficient size and were out of 
character with how Ms R normally used her account  then we would expect Monzo to have 
intervened and contacted her about them. I looked at Ms R s account, and its fair to say 
that the payment was unusual. 
Ms R only opened the account early in December 2021, and there was no activity (and a nil 
balance) by the time the first payment of £10,000 was made on 18 December 2021. And  
that payment was preceded by two credits of £10,000 and £5,000 on the same day. So  the 
payment of £10,000 was sufficiently unusual to expect Monzo to have stepped in and asked 
questions about it.
Monzo argue that they sent a warning to Ms R when the first payment was made. It said, 
could someone be trying to scam you? Ms R (or the advisor- as Ms R had given him 
access to her computer) clicked to say, Ive read all the info here and I want to continue with 
the payment, and then Continue payment. 
But  given that this was the first payment activity on a new account, I dont think that was 
enough here. Im also not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Ms Rs own 
account and so appeared to be going somewhere within her control should have satisfied 
Monzo that she wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by January 2019, firms like Monzo 
had, or ought to have had, a good enough understanding of how these scams work  
including that a customer often moves money to an account in their own name before 
moving it on again to the scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud.
So, I think Monzo should reasonably have held the payment and called Ms R about it  an 
asked open questions such as:
- Why are you making the payment?
- Who to?
- For what purpose?
- Where did the money come from that youre investing?
- How did you hear about the investment?
- What do you know about bitcoin investing?
- Have you made bitcoin investments before?
- How were you given the bank account details where the money was to be paid to?
- Have you given control on your devices to anyone else?If they had, its reasonable to assume that Ms R wouldve revealed that the advisor had been 
found on the internet, that she had given control of her computer to him, that he was making 
the payments (or guiding her), that she had borrowed £88,000 to fund the investments, that 
she was inexperienced, and had done little research. I think its likely the scam wouldve 
been uncovered and the payment (and the next three payments) not made.
I also noted that on 18 December 2021, after the first payment - Ms R (or her adviser - as Ms 
R had given him access to her computer) chatted online to Monzo and asked that her 
payment limit be increased to £28,000  so she could send more money to the payment 
platform. I noted that this was declined and at that stage, Monzos team expressed concerns 
about such large payments being made from a new account and funded by immediate 
transfers from another account. This preceded the next three payments  and I consider 
there was enough going on here to expect the other payments to also have been stopped.
Therefore, in the first instance, I think its reasonable to say that Monzo should be liable for 
the payments totalling £38,099.
Our investigator said that bank Z should share half of Ms Rs losses, and this is subject to a 
separate complaint which our service has investigated. And the provisional decision Ive 
issued on that complaint says that isnt a fair and reasonable thing to ask of bank Z. So  
this provisional decision says Monzo should be initially liable for all of Ms Rs losses as 
regards the payments made from her Monzo account. 
Contributory Negligence:
But thats not the end of the story here. I also considered whether Ms R couldve done more 
to protect herself and whether she should therefore reasonably share some of her losses. 
And I think she should I say that as:
- Ms R was an inexperienced investor in bitcoin and did little research into the 
investment. She said shed heard about bitcoin a few years ago and that it seemed a 
good way to make money. But  for Ms R to invest £38,000 from her Monzo account 
(and much more through her other two bank accounts)  its reasonable to say she 
shouldve done more research - such as taking third party independent advice.
- She said she saw reviews of A on Trustpilot and they were positive. But Ive seen  
there were also articles online at the time that warned about A  that it was a scam.
- She couldve looked at the FCA websites  she wouldve seen that the FCA 
published a warning about A in September 2021.
- She came to trust the adviser who was a contact found through the internet.
- She gave control over her accounts by giving the adviser access to her computer  
this wasnt a sensible thing to do at all. It meant that the adviser controlled her 
interactions with her bank, her bank account funds (although this isnt completely 
clear from the evidence Ive seen), her crypto wallet and applied for loans from six 
finance providers in her name.
- The story given to her by the adviser about creating loans in As platform wasnt 
credible, even to someone without any financial experience, even accepting that she was pressurised by the adviser.
- Ms R ignored the in-app warning from Monzo on the first payment on 18 December 
2021.
For these reasons, I agree that Ms R should bear responsibility for 50% of her losses here.
Recovery 
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether Monzo took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the money. Monzo showed us they contacted the 
recipient bank on 28 February 2023  and no funds then remained to be repaid. Ms R had 
contacted them on 10 January 2023. So  Monzo didnt acted quickly here. 
But in any case,  given that the scam took place in 2021, and Ms R complained to Monzo in 
January 2023  this wasnt a surprise. As normally in such scams, funds are removed from 
the recipient bank immediately. So  I dont think Monzo couldve done any more here.
My provisional decision is that Monzo should refund £19,049.95, plus interest at 8% per 
annum simple from the date of payments to the date of settlement.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Monzo made no comments, but Ms R did (through her representatives). She said:
- I treated the matter as two separate scams, whereas the scam started in June 2021 
and continued through to December 2021. And throughout, Ms R was under the spell 
of the scammers  even though there was a break in payments.
- The FCAs warning was issued in December 2021 - it wasnt there when Ms R did 
her research in June 2021. She doesnt think its reasonable to do more research 
after she did it initially.
- There was little adverse comment in the investment company, and Ms R recalls 
Trustpilot had 89% positive reviews.
- Ms R believed she was dealing with a genuine and trusted advisor.
- The FCAs research suggests that 47% of investors would not see a request to use 
their device as a red flag.
- The in-app warning from Monzo was ineffective and poorly targeted  as it related to 
impersonation scams.
- Ms R was under immense pressure to take out the loans.
- Therefore, the deduction of 50% for contributory negligence isnt fair and Ms R 
should be refunded 100% of her losses.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I noted that our investigator recommended a deduction of 50% for contributory negligence 
and at that stage, Ms Rs representatives accepted the outcome.
Nevertheless, Ive considered Ms Rs complaint again and the points made by her 
representatives. But on balance, I havent changed my view and final decision.
Treatment as separate scams: I didnt intend for this to imply there were separate scams, I 
was trying to show, for clarity, the phasing of the payments as between the three banks 
involved. I accept that the overall scam ran for the whole period  from June 2021 to 
December 2021.
FCA warning: this was in fact issued on 6 September 2021, which was prior to the Monzo 
payments. I revisited the online and Trustpilot reviews again, and I agree there are some 
positive ones, but also a number of negative ones  which say the investment company was 
a scam. But Im persuaded that there were enough negative warnings for Ms R to question 
what was going on. 
Ive thought about whether its fair to expect Ms R to have done more research during the 
period of the scam, and I think its reasonable that she should have. The scam lasted six 
months, during which Ms R made many investments, was told she had a debt with the 
investment company which needed to be repaid and borrowed approximately £90,000. So,  I 
think that in the circumstances, its reasonable that she shouldve stepped back and 
questioned what was going on. For example, she couldve asked for third party advice from 
a qualified and registered advisor, as well as doing more online research.
Trusted advisor: Ive no doubt that Ms R believed she was dealing with a genuine and 
trusted advisor  and was under pressure to take out the loans. But given the extent and 
nature of the scam (the extended time period, the apparent debt to the investment company 
 and the implausible reason for the debt being created), Im still of the opinion that that 
doesnt mean Ms R shouldnt have questioned what was going on.
The FCAs research - I considered this and am aware of this research. But in the 
circumstances of this scam, it doesnt change my view  especially as in this case, the 
scammer used the access to apply for loans in Ms Rs name  that, to me, seems well 
beyond the scammer (for example) using the access to make payments from the crypto 
wallet to the investment firm.
In-app warning from Monzo was ineffective and poorly targeted  I agree the warning wasnt 
a good one, and on reflection, in this case, I accept its not a reason to argue Ms R was 
negligent because she ignored that warning.
Putting things right
Therefore, on balance, and for the reasons Ive set out, my final decision is unchanged from 
the provisional decision, and Monzo should refund £19,049.95, plus interest at 8% per 
annum simple from the date of payments to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Refund to Ms R £19,049.95 plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of 
the payments to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman