DRN-3562041
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the outstanding repairs since esure Insurance Limited (esure) 
repaired their home following an escape of water claim.
The buildings insurance policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr P 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr P complained to esure about the way it handled his claim following an escape of water. 
Our service upheld his complaint and esure was required to pay compensation and complete 
the work we agreed was required. 
Mr P then raised this further complaint about outstanding repairs which our service passed 
on to esure. After looking into the list of outstanding repairs, esure agreed that further work 
was needed. It agreed to pay compensation of £450 to Mr P for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, along with £2,378.08 which was to cover the cost of outstanding 
work for:
The bathroom panel 
Plasterwork between the kitchen and hallway wall
The cracking to kitchen wall and ceiling 
Adjustments to the kitchen wastepipe layout 
Kitchen unit door 50% contribution 
CCTV connect block 
Scratches to the bath 50% contribution 
Easing of doors 
Kitchen cupboard shelving 
Electricity costs for dehumidifier 
Missing payment of £459.99 from previous settlement
However, esure didnt agree it was responsible for the following repairs:
The water damaged hallway ceiling
Replacing the insulation in the water damaged wall
Repairing the thermostat
The damaged sink base unit
Mr P remained unhappy with esures offer and asked for a further review. He said esure was 
fully responsible for the damage to the bath and kitchen unit door, along with the items esure 
rejected.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He agreed that esure wasn't responsible for replacing 
the insulation and he thought it made a fair offer to contribute to the bath repair because 
there was no evidence it caused the damage. Furthermore, our investigator agreed with 
esures evidence that failed sealant around the bath was the most likely cause of the water 
damage to the hallway ceiling below.
However, our investigator agreed with Mr P that esure should pay for the broken thermostat 
cover, replacing the u-bend and kitchen unit, and the full cost of the base unit door.
Mr P didnt agree, He remained of the view that esure was responsible for the bath damage 
and hallway ceiling, and he didnt think esures offer of £450 compensation was enough in 
the circumstances.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. I 
wont repeat the detail here; instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Ive looked at the list of repairs esure agreed to include in its settlement offer. Ive also 
looked at the cost it has assigned to each of the repairs. With the exception of the kitchen 
unit door, Im satisfied that esure has made a fair offer. Its worth noting that in some cases, 
such as the kitchen plasterwork and contribution to the bath damage, esure gave a 
reasonable explanation of why the damage was a natural occurrence and/or unrelated to the 
work it did. Nevertheless, it agreed to make an offer towards those repairs as a gesture of 
goodwill. I think that was a fair offer in the circumstances.
Kitchen unit door
As Ive said, I dont agree that esures offer to pay 50% towards the scratched kitchen unit 
door was reasonable. Thats because Mr P reported the scratch to esure very soon after the 
claim work was done, and the engineer agreed it couldve been missed on the final 
inspection. With this element of doubt, I think its fair to require esure to replace the door.
Damaged sink base unit
esure asked Mr P to fit the wastepipes under the sink himself and on doing so he found that 
the existing u-bend pipe was leaking. The unit was newly installed so the damage wouldnt 
have been pre-existing. Therefore, its more likely than not that the installation was the cause 
of the damage, so its reasonable for esure to replace the u-bend and kitchen base unit.
Replacing the insulation
After researching, Mr P didnt think the cavity wall insulation wouldve dried properly and he 
believed it was responsible for the mould and the colder feeling in his home. I cant quantify 
Mr Ps feeling that his house is colder, so it wouldnt be fair to require further action from 
esure based on that. What I have looked at, though, is esures drying certificate that confirms 
the walls were fully dried. I have no reason to doubt that the work done was to expected 
standards so, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I wont be asking esure to replace 
the cavity wall insulation.
Damaged bathMr P reported that his bath was damaged, and he believed it was because esures 
contractors placed things inside the bath during works. Looking at the photos esure provided 
from its initial visit and before work started, there are items stored in the bath already. Given 
that the photo shows the bath panel, the door, and the sink in place, Im persuaded that the 
bath may have already been damaged. Even so, esure offered a 50% contribution towards 
the repair. Im satisfied thats a fair offer given that theres no evidence esure caused the 
damage. I wont be asking esure to increase that offer.
Water damaged ceiling
esures engineer reported that the water damage was due to the failed sealant around the 
bath in the room above the hallway. Although Mr P said the sealant was maintained, the 
photos provided by esures surveyor show that it looks old and damaged. Adhesive sealant 
tape has been placed over the damaged silicone sealant, but the photos show that the tape 
is also loose, and there are blackened areas around the sealant and tile joints. esure 
confirmed that it didnt remove the bath, so thered be no reason for it to have damaged the 
sealant. I understand Mr P is unhappy with the implication that the bath-aid wouldve caused 
the sealant to separate from the bath. Nevertheless, the damage does appear to be 
consistent with general wear and tear. I see no reason to ask esure to cover the cost of 
repairing the water damaged ceiling which was, more likely than not, caused by the 
damaged sealant.
Thermostat and cover
There doesnt seem to be any disagreement that the thermostat cover was damaged during 
repairs. But Mr P thinks the damage also caused it to stop working correctly because he 
experienced problems with his central heating. esure couldnt replace the cover because it 
was no longer available, but it didnt think anything it had done caused the heating to stop 
working properly.
Im not persuaded that a damaged thermostat cover would cause the heating to stop working 
unless there was some obvious sign that the thermostat itself was damaged. However, I 
note that esure told Mr P it would cover the cost of a report and the repairs if it was found 
that the cover damage was the cause. I think thats a fair offer and it would be Mr Ps 
responsibility to arrange and pay for the report in the first instance.
However, I dont find it reasonable to simply ignore the fact that the cover was damaged and 
hasnt been replaced. Therefore, Im satisfied that its fair for esure to pay Mr P what a 
replacement cover wouldve cost.
Compensation
esure offered £450 compensation. This is in addition to the compensation Mr P received for 
his previous complaint, and it reflects the shortfalls identified since the date that complaint 
was resolved. While Mr P has indicated that he and Mrs P have experienced significant 
distress, I cant reasonably say that esure needs to pay any more. Thats because most 
outstanding issues are relatively minor repairs, such as a scratched kitchen door and easing 
doors. In consideration of the outstanding repairs Mr P reported, I can understand that the 
kitchen unit wouldve been the most inconvenient. But I must also take into consideration 
that esure isnt responsible for some of the repairs Mr P will still be finding distressing. In the 
absence of any other evidence to consider, I find that esures offer is fair in the 
circumstances. I see no reason to ask it to pay any more.
CarpetIn his submission to our service, Mr P said his carpet was damaged because of the escape 
of water. I cant see that this issue was raised with esure before, so it would first need an 
opportunity to address his concerns. I wont be making any requirement in respect of the 
carpet, although esure may wish to proactively consider Mr Ps comments.
Putting things right
To put matters right, esure should replace the kitchen base unit, door and u-bend, and 
provide Mr P with a payment equal to the reasonable cost of a new thermostat cover. For 
clarity, this is in addition to its offer to pay compensation of £450 to Mr P for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, along with a payment to cover the cost of outstanding work for:
The bathroom panel 
Plasterwork between the kitchen and hallway wall
The cracking to kitchen wall and ceiling 
Adjustments to the kitchen wastepipe layout 
Kitchen unit door 50% contribution 
CCTV connect block 
Scratches to the bath 50% contribution 
Easing of doors 
Kitchen cupboard shelving 
Electricity costs for dehumidifier 
Missing payment of £459.99 from previous settlement
esure offered £2,378.08. That payment was based on half the cost of the kitchen cupboard 
door and nothing for the thermostat. Therefore, the figure will be adjusted to reflect a slightly 
higher payment for those additional costs, or a reduction if esure completes the work itself.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and, in addition 
to its previous offer, esure Insurance Limited must:
replace the kitchen base unit, door and u-bend, and
provide Mr P with a payment equal to the reasonable cost of a new thermostat cover.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman