The complaint
Mrs P has complained about the way Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) has used the 
compensation to settle her complaint about the mis-sale of payment protection insurance 
(PPI) related to a credit card.
What happened
Mrs P took out a credit card with Capital One and also took out PPI alongside it to protect 
her repayments.
In 2014 Mrs P entered into an individual voluntary agreement (IVA) as she wasnt able to 
pay all of her debts when they fell due. She was discharged from the IVA in 2016, so she 
couldnt be chased by her creditors for the debts she had listed when she entered into the 
IVA.
Mrs P complained to Capital One that shed been mis-sold PPI and it made an offer to settle 
her complaint. It offered compensation of £6881.27. But Capital One said Mrs P still owed it 
over £10,000 when she was discharged from her IVA. So it used the compensation to 
reduce the amount of money it said Mrs P still owed.
Mrs P says that she should get paid this PPI compensation paid directly to her. She says, as 
shes come out of her IVA, her debts have been written off and she doesnt owe Capital One 
anything. Mrs P says the IVA isnt being accepted and honoured by Capital One. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought it was fair for Capital One to use 
the compensation to reduce Mrs Ps debt. But she disagrees, so the case has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One has agreed to uphold the complaint and work out compensation as I would 
expect. So I dont need to look at how PPI came to be sold to Mrs P. But I do need to 
consider whether Capital One offer is fair.
I think the offer is fair and Id like to explain why.
Id expect that when a business has mis-sold PPI, it puts things right by putting the 
consumer in the position they wouldve been in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. Id expect a 
business to remove from the credit card account the charges for PPI, any interest paid on 
the charges and any further charges caused by the PPI. 
DRN-1790553A business can also set against the costs of the PPI any claims paid, as happened in 
Mrs Ps case, as no claims would have been paid if there was no PPI on the account. And as 
we are putting Mrs P back in the position she would have been without the PPI it is fair to 
remove the amount of any claims paid out. 
If, when the costs of the PPI are taken off the credit card balance, someone paid more than 
they needed to clear their balance Id expect a business to pay interest on the extra amount 
for the time they are out of pocket at the rate of 8% a year simple interest.
Capital One has worked out that, if Mrs P didnt owe anything for the debt on her credit card, 
shed get back £6,881.27 in compensation. This is made up of £4,080.65 for the PPI 
premiums that were added to the account and £1,044.32 in interest caused by those 
premiums being on the account. Claims totalling £2,856.54 have been removed from these 
PPI costs. 
In addition, at times when Mrs P cleared her balance, as I indicated above, she should get 
8% simple interest on amounts she was out of pocket. Capital One has worked out this 
compensatory interest as £1.756,39 after income tax has been deducted and paid to HM 
Revenue and Customs. 
Mrs P isnt saying the amount offered of £6,881.27 is wrong, so I now need to consider 
whether Capital One can use the compensation to reduce the debt it says she still owes.
We usually say a business can use a consumers compensation to reduce their debts if the 
debt is on the account that PPI was sold alongside. Here I can see that the PPI was sold 
with the same account that went into arrears, so I think Capital One can use the 
compensation to reduce the debt.
Mrs P has said that she settled her debt with Capital One as part of her IVA in 2016 and it 
accepted a partial payment in full and final settlement. Ive seen from the IVA settlement 
account that Capital One was paid just under £2,000 during Mrs Ps IVA, but this still left a 
balance outstanding. So Mrs P didnt fully paid off her debt during her IVA.
When Mrs P entered into an IVA, the debts she owed werent cancelled. And they werent 
cancelled when she was discharged in 2016  but by law she couldnt be chased for the 
debts once the IVA had ended. The debt she has with Capital One still exists and some of it 
is for PPI premiums (and interest) that Mrs P never paid. So I think its fair for Capital One to 
use the compensation to reduce her debt, otherwise shed be getting a refund of PPI 
premiums (and interest) she didnt actually pay in the first place.
Ive also thought about when Mrs P had PPI  it was before she entered into the IVA. But at 
that point she shouldnt have had PPI on her card, so she wouldve owed Capital One 
something, but it wouldve been less. 
Capital One has to put Mrs P in the position she wouldve been in if shed never had the PPI 
on her account. She owed over £11,000 in total when she entered into her IVA, so the PPI 
cost was only responsible for part of her debt on the credit card. I think its fair to assume 
Mrs P wouldve still entered her IVA if she hadnt had the PPI. So I think she wouldve 
entered into the IVA with a smaller debt and, at the end, Capital One wouldnt have been 
able to chase her for this smaller debt.
This is the position Capital One has put Mrs P in now by removing the PPI. And after that is 
done the debt remaining unpaid is still just over £3,000.Mrs P says she feels the IVA is not being accepted and honoured by Capital One. Once the 
IVA was completed Capital One could not proactively take legal action against Mrs P for any 
money that remained unpaid on completion of the IVA. And it has complied with that.
Capital One hasnt actively taken any action against Mrs P. It has used the PPI 
compensation it owed her to set off against a debt that is dormant but that she owed the 
business. Both debts relate to the same account and part of the debt Mrs P owed to Capital 
One was for PPI she never actually paid. So it is fair to set one debt against the other in 
these circumstances.
Taking all these factors into account I think what Capital One has done with the 
compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I think Capital One (Europe) Plcs offer is fair and what it has 
done with the compensation is also fair so I dont direct it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman