DRN-2828902
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont pay his full home insurance claim for 
theft of angling equipment from the boot of his car.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr M suffered the loss of his angling equipment when it was stolen from the 
locked boot of his car. He made a claim to Aviva who initially declined it as it said there was 
no evidence that force and violence was used to enter the car. But it then agreed to accept 
the claim but pointed out that the limit for theft from unattended cars was £1,000. It offered 
that by way of settlement.
Mr M thought that was unfair as he had recently upgraded his policy and specified the 
angling equipment to the value of £6,733, and felt hed bought comprehensive coverage for 
it.
On referral to this service our investigator said the exclusion in the policy for theft from an 
unattended vehicle was unclear and that the £1,000 limit could be interpreted as generally 
theft from the vehicle rather than as here, theft from a locked and concealed boot. He said 
Aviva should pay the claim to its full value, and pay Mr M £100 compensation.
Aviva didnt agree and said that the policy exclusion was clear, and in respect of theft from 
an unattended vehicle only applied in the limited circumstances set out in the policy, with a 
limit of £1,000.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms claim comes under the Personal Belongings section of the policy. This covers loss 
or damage to property (shown in the schedule) anywhere in the world. Mr Ms angling 
equipment is specified in his schedule to the value of £6,733. The cover has the following 
exclusion:
Theft from an unattended vehicle (other than from a locked and concealed boot, concealed 
luggage compartment or closed glove compartment of a securely locked vehicle) which has 
been broken into by using force and violence. We will not pay more than £1,000 for any one
incident.
I dont doubt that its fair for Aviva to exclude or limit cover in circumstances it deems to be a 
greater risk. And exclusions such as this one are common in home policies.
However if its to apply the exclusion it must be clear. And I dont think the exclusion here is 
at all clear, especially as it is partly an exclusion and partly a term setting out the cover. The 
words in brackets (other thanone incident) could reasonably be interpreted as not being 
part of the exclusion. It does mean that it would be odd to put the £1,000 limit at the end of 
the exclusion, but equally it could be argued that the limit applied to theft in circumstances 
other than as specified between the brackets.
I understand what Avivas intention was in applying the exclusion, but in circumstances 
where the wording doesnt clearly set out that intention, we say its fair to apply the 
interpretation which benefits the consumer. In these circumstances that means that Aviva 
should pay the whole claim, subject to any policy excess.
Aviva did say that it was declining the claim initially because there was no evidence of force 
or violence being used. However I note that it accepted the claim so it cant now put forward 
that argument. Further the using force and violence part of the exclusion could be interpreted 
as not applying to theft from a locked and concealed boot etc.
Mr M hasnt been able to replace his equipment so hes not had use of it for some time. I 
think Aviva should pay Mr M £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
Aviva should settle Mr Ms full claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
It should also pay hm £100 compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman