DRN-3195033
The complaint
Ms F and Mr S complain Aviva Insurance Limited havent treated them fairly when handling 
their buildings claim.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, setting out whatd happened, and what I 
thought about that. Ive copied the relevant sections below, and they form part of this final 
decision. 
Ms F and Mr Ss flat was unfortunately burgled on 25 June 2019. They called Aviva to tell it 
whatd happened and register their claim. Ms F and Mr S say they were told they needed to 
speak to the emergency assistance department but couldnt get through. So, as damage had 
happened to their front door, and it was getting late  they arranged for someone to come 
out and make their front door secure for the night. This cost £220.
Ms F and Mr S say it was obvious to them the front door had been damaged beyond repair, 
so they arranged for a new front door to be installed. This happened on 25 September 2019 
and the total cost of this, before deductions such as an excess or an allowance for a new 
doorbell, was £2,817.60. Ms F and Mr S say they asked Aviva to pay for this as soon as they 
reasonably could. They contacted Aviva on 13 November 2019.
Aviva appointed an agent, who Ill call V, who decided the front door didnt need to be 
replaced, instead it could have been repaired. V calculated the cost of repair was £112.74 
and Aviva offered this as settlement. Ms F and Mr S rejected this offer  and said Avivas 
approach, tone and attitude was trying to find reasons not to meet their claim. They also said 
Vs report was based on a desktop review, meaning they didnt see the damage, so they felt 
it was lacking in any credibility.
Ms F and Mr S also let Aviva know about family bereavements thatd happened recently, 
and which had impacted on their ability to deal with this claim.
Aviva replied to Ms F and Mr Ss complaint on 15 January 2020  and expressed its 
sympathies for the loss Ms F and Mr S had told them about. Regarding the door Aviva said it 
wasnt notified about the claim until 13 November 2019. It noted Ms F and Mr Ss concerns 
about its phone lines, but said they were open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Aviva 
referred to the policy terms and conditions, which in brief said Ms F and Mr S needed to tell it 
about the claim as soon as possible. It said it was aware Ms F and Mr S had already 
replaced their door, but V could have repaired it  and referred the policy terms about how it 
can settle claims. 
Aviva said it would only have paid £112.74 as recommended by V to settle the claim but 
would also pay the £220 call out charge for making the front door secure. It said itd issue a 
cheque for £332.74 (which it later reissued with an additional £25 - £357.74) in settlement of 
the claim. Aviva added Ms F and Mr S had benefitted by £100 as a result of the excess on 
their contents claim being waived. Overall, Aviva felt itd handled Ms F and Mr Ss claim 
fairly.
Ms F and Mr S didnt agree with this, so asked us to look into things. After some issues 
about whether we could look into the substance of Ms F and Mr Ss complaint were 
resolved, one of our Investigators did so. Overall, he felt Aviva had met the claim in a fair 
way and wouldnt be asking it to do anything further.
Ms F and Mr S strongly disagreed with that. They provided a detailed response setting out 
why they didnt agree with our Investigators response. He considered those points, but still 
thought Aviva had acted fairly. As Ms F and Mr S continued to disagree, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Ms F and Mr Ss response to our Investigators second view also included a 
detailed explanation of why Avivas reply to them on 5 March 2020 was its final response, as 
opposed to 15 January 2020 which weve said. I wont be deciding this, because since that 
time Aviva has consented to our service considering the complaint  which means this is no 
longer relevant in the context of considering Ms F and Mr Ss complaint against Aviva.
Turning to the substance of Ms F and Mr Ss complaint I think its important to firstly explain 
Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching 
my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised Ms F and Mr Ss complaint in 
considerably less detail than they have. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this 
decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the 
complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
In simple terms, the crux of Ms F and Mr Ss complaint is that Aviva hasnt accepted their full 
claim for the replacement door they bought  and how it handled this matter during the 
claim.
Ms F and Mr Ss actions on the day
On the day Ms F and Mr S called up Aviva to register the claim. 
Initially, Aviva told us it couldnt find the phone calls, which is disappointing, but 
subsequently it was able to locate them when completing a Subject Access Request for 
Ms F and Mr S.
Ive listened to the two calls Ms F and Mr S have provided. The first call was with the sales 
department, who said theyd need to transfer them through to claims.
In the second call Avivas agent said:
Ive got this one here, which youll need to go through (trails off)
What Ill have to do is pop you through to the claims line wholl be able to sort of give 
you more assistance than I can in relation to this. Theyll then hopefully help you with 
sorting out the claimAnd, during the call, Ms F and Mr S ask for the buildings claims external number which was 
given to them. The call records Ms F and Mr S have provided show the second call lasted 
around 22 minutes. Theres also a third call, to the buildings claims external number, of 
around three minutes. Ms F and Mr S have said they waited on hold to try and speak to 
Aviva but couldnt get through. As a consequence of that, and given the time of day was 
getting on in to the evening, they arranged for their own repairer at a cost of £220 to make 
the door safe.
I dont think the time Ms F and Mr S had to wait was too long. But I do agree that in the face 
of the wait times, combined with the time of day, theyve acted reasonably in getting 
someone to come out and make their door safe. Had Aviva not already refunded the cost of 
this, its likely I would have required it to do so.
Ms F and Mr Ss actions following this
Although I think Ms F and Mr S acted reasonably on the day, I think they should have done 
more following this.
Ms F and Mr S say when they called up, theyd registered the claim, so it doesnt matter that 
they didnt then get back in touch until 13 November. But I think its clear from the call 
recordings Ms F and Mr S knew they needed to register their claim  as no details had been 
taken about exactly what happened, what Aviva were going to do to help them and so on. I 
also think they knew this because they did call back on the day to the buildings claim 
number  something they wouldnt have needed to do, if they thought theyd fully registered 
their claim.
As Ive set out above, I think their actions were reasonable on the day. But I think they knew, 
or should have known, they still needed to register their claim. At this time, it was for them to 
prove an insurable event had happened.
But they didnt call back within a reasonable period of time to do so. From the invoice Ive got 
three months after the break in they replaced their door. In doing so, the company who 
replaced Ms F and Mr Ss door took away their old one and destroyed it.
This has meant Aviva couldnt inspect the door to fully assess how much damage occurred 
to it when Ms F and Mr S got in touch with it  on 13 November. This was four and a half 
months after the break in. Because the door was no longer available, Avivas expert V 
carried out a desktop review, taking into account photos they could find online, and Ms F and 
Mr Ss comments about the damage thatd occurred. V decided the door could have been 
repaired for £112.74. Ive noted Ms F and Mr S have concerns over the desktop valuation 
carried out by V. But, in the circumstances, I dont think Aviva could have done anything else 
 and Ive seen no reason to dispute the report.
Avivas terms and conditions allow it to decide how to settle a claim  including the option to 
repair an item or replace it. So, without sufficient evidence to prove otherwise, which is no 
longer available  I think Aviva has acted fairly in relying on its expert report to say the door 
could have been repaired. Because of that, I think Aviva has fairly settled Ms F and Mr Ss 
claim.
I have noted Ms F and Mr Ss comments that the reason they didnt get back in touch with 
Aviva earlier was due to family bereavements. Im genuinely sorry to hear that, and it sounds 
like theyve had a very difficult time. Ive thought carefully about this, but overall, Im satisfied 
Ms F and Mr S knew theyd not registered their claim and any evidence to prove their claim 
was destroyed. Although I can see Ms F and Mr S were in a very difficult position, I cant say 
Aviva did anything wrong in handling the claim when it was registered in November.Avivas response to Ms F and Mr Ss complaint
Our Investigator felt we couldnt look at this, because complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity. Thats true, its not. But this can be a complex area  and I think we can look at this, 
because the arguments Ms F and Mr S have raised relate to the outcome of their claim and 
the communication regarding this  albeit said by Aviva when handling the complaint Ms F 
and Mr S had raised.
Ive reviewed in detail all of Avivas communication with Ms F and Mr S  and having done 
so Ive not found anything I think to be untoward or inappropriate. So, I wont be upholding 
this element of their complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva said it was pleased itd been recognised it hadnt done anything wrong, and it didnt 
have anything to add.
Ms F and Mr S didnt reply by the deadline. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Aviva accepted my outcome, and Ms F and Mr S didnt reply by the deadline, Ive seen 
no reason to change my outcome.
Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly in handling Ms F and Mr Ss claim, and in their 
communications with them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman