DRN-2679402
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as Z have complained that Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers 
Limited (AJG) charged them commission after they cancelled their professional indemnity 
insurance and office insurance policies. 
Mr B, a director of Z, has brought the complaint on Zs behalf.  
What happened
Z took out two policies through AJG. A few months later Z cancelled their policies, as their 
business had been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and no longer needed insurance. 
Z complained to AJG, as they were unhappy with the amount theyd received as a refund. In 
particular they were unhappy that theyd been charged an £80 cancellation fee and AJG had 
kept £379.99 commission. Z felt that this was unfair and that AJG was benefitting from a 
company that had been impacted by the pandemic. 
AJG said it had made it clear during the sale of the policy that cancellation fees apply, and 
commission would be retained if the policy was cancelled. It said its Terms of Business set 
out how it is paid for its services and if Z had asked about the level of commission, it would 
have disclosed it. However, it accepted that Z had been told the cancellation fee was £37.50, 
so it refunded the additional cancellation fee it had charged. 
Z remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our service. They also told us that they 
were unhappy with how AJG had dealt with the cancellation. They said there were delays, 
they werent contacted when they should have been and were chased for an outstanding 
balance when theyd paid for the policies upfront. Z said they would like the commission to 
be refunded. 
AJG apologised for any errors in how it had handled the cancellation and said it had been 
impacted by staff shortages. 
Our investigator looked into Zs complaint and recommended it be upheld. She didnt think it 
was fair for AJG to keep the commission when it hadnt let Z know how much commission 
would be retained if the policy was cancelled. To put things right, she recommended that 
AJG refund the commission, plus interest. She also recommended that AJG pay Z an 
additional £100 for the inconvenience it had caused in not responding to Z and for asking 
them for a payment that wasnt required. 
Z accepted the investigators recommendation but AJG didnt, as it didnt think it needed to 
disclose the exact amount of commission it would retain, unless Z had asked. AJG did 
however, say that it would offer a refund of 50% of the commission, plus interest, due to the 
cancellation being as a result of the pandemic. It also agreed to pay £100 compensation as 
a gesture of goodwill. Z didnt accept AJGs offer, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AJGs Terms of Business set out how its paid for its services. It says this may be through a 
fee agreed in advance, brokerage/commission and administration charges. It also says that 
AJG will be entitled to retain all fees and brokerage where the policy has been cancelled and 
the insurer has returned the premium on a pro-rata basis. The documents AJG sent to Z 
following the sale, say that Z is entitled to request further information about the renumeration 
AJG might have received in relation to the sale. 
In general, I only think its fair and reasonable for a broker to keep commission when theyve 
made it clear to the policyholder how much commission would be charged in the event the 
policy is cancelled. Thats because AJG has to ensure it treats its customers fairly and 
provides information thats clear, fair and not misleading. While the Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) doesnt require a broker to disclose the amount of 
commission unless its asked, I dont think its fair and reasonable for a broker to claw back 
that commission if the policy is cancelled if it didnt let the policyholder know what that cost 
would be when it sold the policy.
AJGs Terms of Business dont set out how much commission will be retained. Ive also 
listened to calls between AJG and Z and I didnt hear anything to indicate that AJG let Z 
know how much commission it would retain if the policy was cancelled. 
I understand AJG feel that as Z is a commercial customer rather than a consumer, it 
shouldnt need to have explicitly set out the level of commission that would be retained. 
However, AJG still has a duty to treat its customers fairly and I dont think its doing that if it 
doesnt let them know how much commission it will retain if the policy is cancelled. 
As Z werent aware of the amount of commission that would be retained when entering into 
the contract with AJG, I dont think its fair and reasonable for it to be retained upon 
cancellation. 
To put things right, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for AJG to refund the £379.99 
commission it retained. Due to the time Z have been without money they should have had, 
AJG should add interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year, from the date of the 
cancellation to the date it makes payment.  
AJG has already agreed to pay Z £100 compensation for how it handled the cancellation, so 
Im not going to comment on that further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance 
Brokers Limited to pay Z:
£379.99 to refund the commission its retained
Interest on that amount at a rate of 8% simple per year, from the date of the 
cancellation to the date it makes payment. 
£100 to compensate for the inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman