DRN-3034088
The complaint
Mr J complains about the poor service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited when he 
made a claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
Mr J is represented in this complaint by his partner but, for ease, Ill refer to Mr J throughout.
What happened
Mr J had a Home Care policy with British Gas that covered him for repairs to his 
boiler in the event of a breakdown.
In February 2021 Mr Js boiler broke down and he had no hot water or heating. He 
called British Gas, but it said it could take between two and four weeks to send an 
engineer. So, Mr J complained.
British Gas said the delay was due to high demand at that time of year, in addition to 
Covid 19 restrictions and strike action by its engineers. It suggested contacting a 
local trade organisation with links to British Gas (the trade organisation) to see if it 
could help. It gave Mr J an email address so he could send the invoice once the work 
had been done.
An engineer from the trade organisation arrived the same day and fixed the boiler  
but it broke down again the next day. He returned and made further repairs but, 
again, the boiler broke down the next day.
Mr J paid the trade organisation engineer £180 even though hed not resolved the 
issue. He emailed British Gas with the invoice and gave an update on the problem. 
British Gas apologised but didnt reply to further emails Mr J sent.
About two and half weeks after the initial breakdown, a British Gas engineer repaired 
the boiler. 
At the end of March 2021 British Gas reimbursed Mr J the £180 hed paid the trade 
organisation engineer. It subsequently offered £100 for the inconvenience caused.
After investigating, our investigator thought British Gas had done enough to put 
matters right. She noted that the engineer from the trade organisation had shown 
Mr J how to reset the boiler and even though hed had to do that every day, he had 
access to hot water and heating while he was waiting for British Gas to repair his 
boiler. She thought the £100 it had paid Mr J was a fair amount for the impact 
caused.
Mr J doesnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I came to a different conclusion from that reached by the investigator and 
so sent a provisional decision to Mr J and British Gas to give them an opportunity to 
comment. Mr J accepted my findings, while British Gas didnt reply. As such, my findings 
and decision below are substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision. The 
reasons for my decision as follows:
The terms and conditions of Mr Js policy says British Gas will carry out any repairs 
or visits within a reasonable time, unless something beyond its control makes that 
impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible and give you 
another time when we can visit.
It took British Gas about two and a half weeks to send an engineer to Mr Js property. 
He was always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of 
this nature, particularly at the time of year these events took place, when demand for 
the service was high. British Gas was also dealing with restrictions due to Covid 19 
and strike action by its engineers. 
British Gas suggested Mr J contact a trade organisation engineer and I think that was 
a reasonable suggestion in the circumstances as that might have meant his boiler 
was fixed more quickly. But, unfortunately, that engineer wasnt able to repair the 
boiler and the issue remained unresolved. 
Mr J then had to wait another two weeks for British Gas to attend. I can understand 
why British Gas was prioritising its most vulnerable customers without heating and 
hot water. But Mr J is 70 years old and not in good health. He said the trade 
organisation engineer showed him how to re-set the boiler if it broke down and so he 
was able to get the heating and hot water working. But it meant he had to go into the 
loft every day and that wasnt easily accessible, particularly for someone his age. 
Mr J was also upset with the customer service he received. Not only when he first 
called British Gas to report the breakdown and it took a lot of time and persistence 
before it advised him to call the trade organisation. But also when he used the email 
address given to him by British Gas and he didnt receive a reply other than an initial 
apology.  He said the whole situation had left him and his partner angry and 
distressed.
British Gas accepted Mr J had a justified complaint, particularly as the engineer from 
the trade organisation hadnt been able to help. It offered £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I think it was right that British Gas apologised for the service it provided and offered 
an amount to recognise the distress and inconvenience it caused. But taking 
everything into account, and particularly the impact on Mr J, I think it needs to do 
more to put things right. On balance, I dont think British Gas repaired the boiler in a 
reasonable time period and the poor service it provided made the situation worse 
than it needed to be. Mr J was able to get his boiler working in between times but that 
wasnt achieved easily and caused further trouble and upset. 
Mr J has said he wants a years free insurance, but I think it would be more 
appropriate for British Gas to pay compensation for the impact of its poor service. I 
think a payment of £300 would be a fairer way of resolving this complaint in all the 
circumstances.  My final decision
My decision is that British Gas should pay Mr J a total of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor service caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman