DRN-2907217
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited undervalued his taxi when it 
settled a claim on his taxi insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As taxi was badly damaged in an accident. It wasn't repairable and he claimed for its 
total loss. Haven initially said the taxi had a pre-accident value of around £2,750. Haven 
increased its valuation to £4,500 after Mr A complained. It offered to settle Mr As claim 
based on that valuation on an interim basis.
Mr A remained unhappy with Havens valuation and brought his complaint to us. I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 June 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy says that if his taxi is deemed a total loss then Haven would pay its market 
value. Haven asked an independent engineer to give the taxis pre-accident market value. 
The engineer valued it at £2,750. Mr A disputed that and argued it was worth £10,000. In 
support of that he said hed paid £10,500 for the taxi around ten months before it was written 
off. He also gave Haven a different engineer's report, provided around six months before his 
claim, which had valued his taxi at £12,000. After considering that evidence Haven 
increased its valuation to £4,500. That figure was considerably less than Mr As valuation. 
When looking at disputes around the market value of second hand cars our usual approach 
is to use industry recognised trade guides for doing so. But those trade guides dont provide 
valuations for taxis. So we couldn't follow our usual approach in this case.
Instead we asked one of those trade guides, which Ill refer to as C, to give a valuation 
tailored to Mr As taxi. That trade guide gave us a valuation of between £7,000 and £8,000. It 
said it had arrived at that figure based on current live retail prices, and does not take into 
consideration the license it carries (i.e. in or out of London).
We put that valuation to Haven. It argued that the valuation wasn't fair. It said taxi licensing 
regulations in London can affect the market price of taxis. It said thats because London 
regulations don't allow taxis not initially licensed there to be used there at a later date.
I haven't seen any evidence, beyond Havens comments, which supports its arguments. My 
own research into the price of taxis doesn't indicate that a previously held London license 
affects their value. For example, I haven't seen taxis specifically being advertised as 
previously licensed in London as a selling factor, which I would expect if that was 
something which significantly altered a taxis value.
But, if Haven is correct about licensing affecting the market value of taxis that doesn't mean 
that Cs valuation is unfair. It didn't say it had only used taxis previously licensed in London 
to give its valuation. Instead it said its research was UK wide. In other words its valuation 
range came from a sample of taxis both in and out of London. And the variation, between the 
low and high end, of £1,000, doesn't indicate that there is a huge difference between asking 
prices for taxis, based on their location, at that time. So, even if previously London licensed 
taxis occupied vehicles at the higher end of Cs valuations that doesn't mean taxis from 
outside London dont also inhabit the rest of its pricing range.
Further, as I've said above, I haven't seen any evidence beyond Haven's comments that 
London licensed taxis attract a higher price. And in those circumstances, as I also haven't 
seen evidence to show that Mr As taxi was in any way exceptional, I think it would be fair to 
use a market value based on the mid-range of Cs valuation, which is £7,500. So I think 
Haven should base the settlement of Mr As claim for his lost taxi on a figure of £7,500 
before deducting his excess.
Mr As said that as he had to use his own money to buy a replacement taxi Haven should 
pay interest on its settlement. But I've noted that on several occasions Haven offered to 
settle Mr As claim on an interim basis. Mr A refused that offer. That was a decision he was 
entitled to come to. But if hed accepted Havens offer, which I understand was based on a 
settlement value of £4,500, then he wouldn't have suffered any loss of use of that portion of 
the settlement. So I don't think it would be fair to instruct Haven to add interest to that portion 
of its settlement now.
That said, as I think Haven undervalued Mr As taxi by £3,000 I think it's fair that it adds 
simple interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date of Mr As claim to the date 
Haven makes payment to him.
Further, as this matter has clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr A, I 
think it should pay him £100 compensation to reflect that.
Developments
Haven didn't agree with my provisional decision. It provided comments from its 
Head Engineer which essentially repeated its previous remarks about the effect of London 
licences on the second hand taxi market. Mr A provided the following comments:
I have previously provided all documents and evidence that I deemed necessary in multiple 
emails a number of times, which included engineer reports, valuations, documented 
evidence of pay outs by Haven insurance by them to me and other third parties for similar 
vehicles for much higher prices. I would also like to add that similar to London, when you are 
registering a Hackney vehicle to be licensed to operate in [the city Mr A works in], either for 
the first time or as a replacement after an accident, then that vehicle cannot be of any age, 
only the latest Euro 6 standard, versions are allowed, i.e. September 2015 and above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to change my provisional decision.
Havens head engineer has expanded on the reasons why he feels a London license affects 
taxi values. However, again, he hasn't provided any evidence to support his remarks. But as 
I said in my provisional decision even if London licensed taxis do attract a higher valuation, 
the range of values C provided was based on the retail market across the whole of the UK. 
So it didn't only reflect London prices and is therefore representative of taxi values outside of 
London too. Further, Mr As remarks don't provide any new evidence or comments that I hadn't considered before arriving at my provisional decision. So I'm not persuaded I need to 
change it. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company 
Limited to 
Settle Mr As claim for the total loss of his taxi using a pre-accident value of 
£7,500, subject to a deduction of Mr As excess.
It should add simple interest to £3,000 of that settlement, at a rate of 8% a year, 
from the date of Mr As claim to the date it pays him.
Pay Mr A £100 compensation to reflect his distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman