DRN-4457076
The complaint
T, a limited company complains about the level of customer service that a director, Mrs H, 
received from Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI). 
T is in liquidation but the liquidator consents to Mrs H representing T in its complaint.
What happened
T has a business bank account with BOI. After the death of Ts director, Mrs H asked BOI to 
add her as a signatory to Ts account. Mrs H was unhappy to learn that this didnt form part 
of BOIs deceased customer process. Mrs H was distressed at the process to try and add 
her name to Ts bank account. 
BOI apologised and paid £150 compensation for the confusion caused by passing Mrs H 
between various departments and for the delays dealing with her requests. Mrs H was 
unhappy with this as she didnt think it reflected the significant emotional upset of trying to 
deal with matters after Ts director  her husband  had passed away. Mrs H is unhappy that 
BOI failed to provide the highest level of service to its customer as set out in its customer 
charter.
Our investigator agreed that BOI made some mistakes and that there had been avoidable 
delays in the process. Our investigator said that BOI told her it could not have amended Ts 
correspondence address until the business mandate was updated, which explained why BOI 
continued to send statements to the address it held on file. Our investigator noted that BOI 
has now updated the address so Mrs H should receive statements. 
Our investigator didnt think BOI acted unreasonably when it blocked Ts account after 
receiving the incorrect mandate. But our investigator accepted that BOI could have been 
more proactive and acted more quickly to remove the block allowing credits to the account.
Our investigator explained that T could not feel distress so she thought BOIs compensation 
award of £150 was fair.
Mrs H is unhappy with the investigation outcome. Mrs H doesnt think the investigator has 
put enough thought into the issues that she has raised. 
Mrs H points out that someone at BOI reviewed the mandate form which she completed 
incorrectly so should have picked up any mistakes. Mrs H says that BOI not only failed to 
follow things up but also lost documents that had been hand delivered. Mrs H says that she 
had already changed the statement address to her home address and that BOI breached 
data protection regulations by sending statements to Ts business address which could have 
led to fraudulent activity.
Mrs H says that shed been chasing credits to Ts account only to be told it had been blocked 
and that she should ask creditors to make payments to an alternative account, causing a 
great deal of unnecessary work.  
Mrs H points out that she is a bereaved widow trying to sort out the business affairs of her 
husband. Mrs H says that although shes not questioning BOIs processes, she is concerned 
about the level of customer care she received. 
Our investigator acknowledged Mrs Hs concerns with the investigation outcome but 
explained that as the complainant is T, not Mrs H  our investigator could only consider the 
inconvenience caused to T and not the upset felt by Mrs H personally.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided detailed 
submissions to support Ts complaint which I have read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope Mrs H wont take it as a discourtesy that I have summarised Ts complaint in less detail 
and that I have concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. 
I know that Mrs H disagrees with our investigators assessment of Ts complaint. But the 
purpose of my decision is not to address or answer every single point raised. Instead, my 
role is to consider the evidence and reach what I think is a fair decision. 
BOI accepts that it let T down when trying to sort out its bank account and add Mrs Hs name 
to the mandate. BOI has apologised and paid T £150, so I now need to consider whether 
BOI has already done enough to put things right.
I agree that Mrs H seems to have spent more time than she should have had to when sorting 
Ts bank account and that BOI gave her conflicting and incorrect information. For these 
failings, I consider BOIs compensation award of £150 is fair. The payment reflects the 
inconvenience caused to T when Mrs H had to keep contacting BOI  which I assume 
diverted her away from the business of T. I dont require BOI to pay more compensation as 
Mrs H explains she was re-appointed as director in a purely administrative role to help wrap 
the business up. So, the fact that Mrs H spent more time sorting things out didnt, for 
example, result in T losing out on profit making opportunities. This means I dont consider I 
need to increase the award of compensation to reflect the inconvenience to T. 
Although Mrs H is understandably concerned that BOI continued to send statements to T at 
its previous address, I dont have any evidence to suggest that this resulted in any loss on 
the part of T  for example because someone other than T was then able to access its bank 
account. So, it doesnt change the outcome of my decision.
I dont wish to appear unsympathetic to Mrs H who explains that she found the experience 
very stressful and damaging to her mental health in the wake of the sad passing of her 
husband. However, as our investigator has explained, the eligible complainant here is T, 
which is its own legal entity. I can only consider the impact that any mistake or unfairness 
may have had on T and I cant make an award to T for any upset that Mrs H has felt 
personally. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I consider £150 is fair when taken in conjunction with 
BOIs apology and the fact that the mandate has been successfully changed. Im sorry that 
this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider BOI has already done enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman