DRN-3766605
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) didnt offer 
continued cover during their subsidence claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a home insurance policy through an intermediary, underwritten by RSA. 
For clarity, the complaint considered here is about RSA only, but I will make reference to the 
intermediary for context.
The intermediary stopped using RSA to underwrite its policies so, when the policy was due 
to be renewed in August 2021, the intermediary offered cover available through its new 
underwriter. Mr and Mrs W rejected the offer. Until that point, their cover had continued 
unchanged throughout the years of their subsidence claim, which is still ongoing.
In March 2022, Mr and Mrs W asked RSA to confirm that it had continued cover for them on 
a like for like basis. RSA explained that because the policy was arranged through the 
intermediary, it hadnt provided continued cover. Mr and Mrs W complained to RSA because 
best industry practice suggests an insurer should continue to provide cover while a 
subsidence claim is ongoing. RSA offered to provide a quote through one of its brokers, and 
it offered £100 by way of apology for the poor service around communication with them, but 
Mr and Mrs W didnt think that was good enough. They brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. The policy Mr and Mrs W were 
on previously no longer existed as a product for RSA to offer, so it offered to provide a quote 
for cover using its own brokers. Our investigator said, taking into consideration that Mr and 
Mrs W didnt contact RSA until well after the policy ended, and after the intermediary had 
offered to continue cover, RSAs offer was fair.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said an offer to quote for a policy didnt guarantee cover 
would be on the same basis and for a comparable price. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint. Ill explain why.
My decision here is brief, but Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs W that Ive looked at everything 
provided. 
The issue is that Mr and Mrs W think RSA shouldve provided continued cover, backdated to 
when their old policy ended. Theyre right in thinking that cover should be available when 
theres an ongoing subsidence claim. However, the policy they had was arranged through 
another company, and it was that company which offered a new policy. 
I understand Mr ad Mrs W were unhappy with the price of the policy, which is why they 
approached RSA. But at that point, RSAs obligation was limited to accepting a request to 
quote for cover. RSA offered to arrange for one of its brokers to contact Mr and Mrs W, 
which I think was reasonable. But RSA couldnt simply continue cover on a policy that wasn't 
available to it.
Mr and Mrs W dont think they should have to get a quote and they are doubtful that their 
request for a policy would be accepted. Until they go through the process, RSA cant assess 
the risk against its criteria because Mr and Mrs Ws information was held by the intermediary 
responsible for the previous policy. So, I think RSAs offer is fair. As for whether Mr and Mrs 
W would be offered a reasonable and comparable policy, I cant reach a decision about 
something which hasnt yet happened.
In summary, through a series of unfortunate events which happened while Mr and Mrs Ws 
subsidence claim was progressing, their home insurance policy wasn't renewed. But I cant 
see any evidence that RSA was responsible for them being without cover, or that it shouldve 
done more to help than it already has. Therefore, I see no reason to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman