DRN-3070490
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Provident Personal Credit Limited. He says he was sent 
communications when his loan fell into arrears. He feels these communications were 
harassment.  
What happened
Mr W has made a number of complaints about Provident. I have already considered which 
complaints we can, and cant, consider separately. I am now looking at the merits of this 
complaint. 
This complaint is about one home collected loan Provident provided to Mr W. I can see that 
in early 2019 Mr W had problems making the loan repayments. Provident has provided a 
copy of the email, text and postal correspondence that it sent to Mr W when this happened. 
Provident has looked at this complaint. It said that it had a regulatory responsibility to contact 
Mr W when he couldnt repay his lending. And it was required to send some correspondence 
by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. It didnt uphold his complaint. 
Our adjudicator also didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that Provident had acted 
incorrectly when it sent Mr W notifications that he was behind with his loan repayments. 
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. As no agreement has been reached the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short term and high cost credit - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Its not disputed that Mr W couldnt repay his loan at the agreed times. And Provident has 
provided the correspondence it sent when this happened. This included emails, text 
messages and letters. 
Provident is required to contact a consumer when a loan falls into arears. And being aware 
of the status of a loan, and what the implications of non-payment are, is important. It can 
have significant effects on a consumers financial status. And so, its right that Provident 
took steps to fully inform Mr W about this. 
And having looked at all of this correspondence I dont think Provident has done anything 
wrong here. The communications provide reasonable information and I dont think it would 
be fair to call them harassment. 
I can see Mr W feels strongly about this issue and Im sure my decision will not be the 
answer he had hoped for. But I hope my decision doesnt cause any distress and that he 
finds my explanation helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman