DRN-3030778
The complaint
Ms G complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclays and their decision to 
approve her loan application.
What happened
In May 2018, Ms G made an online application for a £50,000 loan with Barclays. The loan 
was approved and the £50,000 was transferred into her savings account, also provided by 
Barclays.
The same day, Ms G attempted to make a transaction of £51,000 from her current account 
using the loan funds. This transaction was declined and a block placed on Ms Gs account. 
Ms G attended her local branch the next day and explained the loan was intended to pay for 
an abroad wedding. Barclays removed the blocks on Ms Gs account following this 
information and the majority of the loan was transferred into another of Ms Gs accounts 
provided by another lender, who Ill refer to as H.
But Ms G didnt make a payment towards the loan. And shortly after Ms G had received the 
loan, she spoke to Barclays and explained around the time of her application, shed been 
making investments on the advice of a financial advisor, who Ill refer to as E. And she 
explained E had taken control of her online account to make the loan application on her 
behalf. And after this, E had told her what to say when she attended branch to ensure she 
was able to transfer the funds out of her account. Ms G explained shed since realised this 
was a scam and shed lost all of the money shed paid on the advice of E, including the loan 
Barclays provided. So, she was unable to repay the loan shed been given. 
And because of this, Ms E raised a complaint with Barclays. She thought Barclays had 
approved her loan application irresponsibly as she thought it shouldve been clear shed be 
unable to meet the minimum monthly repayment as it was more than she earned from her 
monthly income. She thought Barclays had based the approval solely on the money that was 
moved into her account before the loan was approved and she didnt think this was 
reasonable as shed then used it to make scam investments on the advice of E. So, she 
wanted Barclays to write off the loan as she had no reasonably way of paying it back.
Barclays responded and didnt agree. They thought the checks they completed, which 
including reviewing Ms Gs bank statements and credit file against the reasoning for the 
loan, were reasonable. And they didnt think any of the information provided to them 
suggested the loan would be unaffordable. So, although they empathised with the situation 
found herself due to falling victim of an investment scam, they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. And so, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Because of this, 
Ms Gs account continued to accrue arrears. Ms G remained unhappy with this response, so 
she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think the checks 
Barclays completed were proportionate as the information they used included Ms Gs joint 
account which had been closed prior to the approval of the loan. And it also factored in the 
historic balance of Ms Gs savings account which had been reduced dramatically due to 
payments made to E. So, they thought Barclays shouldve completed a detailed income and 
expenditure report to ensure the loan was affordable. And they thought if Barclays had done 
this, they wouldve seen the loan wasnt affordable and declined the application.
But they explained, even though they were lost, Ms G had made use of the funds. And they 
didnt think Barclays were responsible for the actions of E who led Ms G into losing the funds 
in scam investments. So, they thought Ms G still needed to repay the capital amount she 
received. So, to resolve the complaint, they thought Barclays should remove any interest 
and charges applied to the account and remove any negative information reported to Ms Gs 
credit file. And they explained Ms G should then contact Barclays to discuss a reasonable 
repayment plan.
Ms G didnt agree. She explained unless the loan was written off, shed be forced into 
bankruptcy as she know viable way of repaying it. And Barclays also disagreed, maintaining 
their view that the way they had calculated Ms Gs income was fair, as well as requesting 
further information to understand Ms Gs financial situation at the time considering she had 
other accounts available. As both parties disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms G. I recognise Ms G says 
she fell victim to E and their investment scam and I can appreciate the upset this wouldve 
caused. I understand Ms G lost significant amounts of money due to this and I recognise 
how worrying and frightening this wouldve been. Because of this, I can also understand why 
Ms G would look at Barclays decision to approve her loan application and feel it was unfair 
as her finances show she was moving large sums of money around that time. And I 
appreciate why she thinks its unfair for Barclays to ask her to pay the loan amount back as 
she feels they failed to ensure it was affordable before she was provided it. 
When considering Barclays decision to lend, there are no set checks Barclays are expected 
to complete. But I would expect these checks to be proportionate to the value of the loan Ms 
G was being provided with.
Barclays have confirmed they took an average of Ms Gs income based on her six months 
current, savings and joint accounts. And theyve explained that this income was based on all 
credits into the accounts, not just credits from Ms Gs paid employment. They considered 
this against information shown on Ms Gs credit file as well as other factors, such as Ms Gs 
reason for wanting the loan. And having done so, Barclays feel there was nothing to suggest 
the loan was unaffordable as their calculations suggested Ms G had a disposable monthly 
income of £5,476 and the monthly repayment was for £1,529 over a period of 36 months. 
And I understand why Barclays would reach this decision, based purely on the credits being 
paid into Ms Gs accounts. But I dont think this represents a clear picture of Ms Gs finances 
at the time. Ive seen the application details, which states Ms G was working part time as a 
nurse with an annual salary of under £10,000 a year. So, the loan Ms G applied for was 
worth more than five times Ms Gs annual salary. And the monthly repayment for this loan was for more than Ms G earned in a month. So, without access to other funds, I think it was 
clear Ms G wouldnt be able to afford the loan.
I recognise in the six months before Ms G applied for the loan, she had a significant sum in 
her savings account and there was also regular credits entering her joint account, which I 
think it was reasonable for Barclays to assume she had access to. So, I do understand why 
the average of these six months, less the highest and lowest months as Barclays have 
stated, would suggest Ms G had access to funds that made the loan affordable. But I think 
its clear Ms Gs financial situation had changed significantly in the weeks leading up the 
application.
Ms Gs joint access had closed on 14 May 2018, just over a week before she made the 
application. And Ms Gs savings had reduced from over £100,000 in January 2018 to just 
over £1,000 in May 2018 before the loan was approved. This was largely due to Ms G 
transferring large amounts out of her savings account, into her current account with H. While 
Ms G is entitled to move her money as she wishes, and I wouldnt expect Barclays to 
penalise her for that, I think this activity shouldve prompted Barclays to ask more questions 
before approving the loan. 
I think the fact Ms G had transferred nearly £100,000 out of her savings account to then 
need an additional £50,000 shouldve alerted Barclays that more checks needed to be 
completed. In particular, I think Barclays shouldve completed an income and expenditure 
with Ms G to ensure she had the funds available to make the repayments for the 36-month 
term, considering the minimum payment was worth more than the paid income she received 
from her employment. And as shed transferred such large sums into her account with H, I 
think Barclays shouldve asked Ms G to provide bank statements to show what had 
happened to these funds. So, I dont think Im able to say the checks Barclays completed 
were proportionate.
As I dont think they were proportionate, Ive then thought about whether completing these 
further checks wouldve impacted Barclays decision to lend. And I think it wouldve done. If 
an income and expenditure had been completed, Barclays wouldve realised that Ms Gs 
regular paid income was less than the monthly repayment of the loan. And I think they would 
also have realised the funds Ms G had transferred from her savings in her account with H 
had been paid out to a third party, so they were no longer available to her.
Had they known this, as well as considering the fact Ms G no longer had access to her joint 
account due to its closure, I think it wouldve become clear to Barclays the loan wasnt 
affordable and so, I think the application wouldve been declined. Because of this, I think 
Barclays decision to lend to Ms G was irresponsible and so, Ive then thought about what I 
think Barclays should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any direction or award I make is intended to place Ms G back in the situation she wouldve 
been in, had Barclays acted fairly. And in this situation, Ms G would not have received the 
loan. But I must also ensure Ms G isnt placed in a position of betterment as any decision I 
make must be fair to both parties.
So, although I dont think Ms G wouldve been provided the loan, she has made use of the 
funds Barclays provided to her. And so, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Barclays 
should write off the capital value of the loan, £50,000, as Ms G has been able to spend it.
I recognise Ms G spent it making a payment towards a scam investment so I appreciate why 
she doesnt see having access to these funds as a benefit. But I dont think Barclays were responsible for the payment Ms G made, or the fact this payment was likely made as part of 
a scam. As Ms G made use of the capital amount provided to her by Barclays, I think Ms G 
has a responsibility to repay this.
But I do think Barclays should waive any interest and charges applied to the loan as 
including these leaves Ms G owing more money than shes had the benefit of. And if Ms G 
had never been provided the loan, this wouldnt have been the case.
And finally, I think Barclays should remove any negative information reported to Ms Gs 
credit file as this puts her back in the position she wouldve been, had the loan application 
been correctly declined.
I would also expect Barclays to act positively and sympathetically to Ms Gs financial 
situation and look to agree a reasonable and affordable repayment plan. Ms G should 
contact Barclays directly to discuss this further.
I recognise this isnt the outcome either party were hoping for. And I understand this leaves 
Ms G with a significant amount to repay when the funds she spent were paid into a scam. 
But as Ive explained, I dont think this was the fault or responsibility of Barclays. As far as 
Im aware, Ms G hasnt made H, the provider of the account she made the payments from, 
aware of the scam she feels she was victim of. It would be H that Ms G would need to direct 
her concerns toward if she wishes to try and reclaim the payments she made to E.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Gs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclays and direct them to take the following action:
Remove any interest and charges applied to the loan account; and
Remove any negative information reported to Ms Gs credit file relating to the loan 
account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman