DRN-4334625
The complaint
Mrs C complains FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund Ourselves) gave her loans which 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
A summary of Mrs Cs borrowing can be found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £500.00 14/03/2022 03/04/2022 4 £233.00
2 £1,200.00 12/04/2022 outstanding 5 £480.00*
*Similar to the investigator, in the final response letter Fund Ourselves said the monthly 
repayment for loan 2 was £240, but that doesnt add up to the total amount 
Fund Ourselves said Mrs C needed to repay. The figure in the table above represents the 
total amount due divided equally between the five monthly repayments. 
Following Mrs Cs complaint Fund Ourselves wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to 
uphold it. Unhappy with this response, Mrs C referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an investigator, and she didnt think Mrs Cs complaint 
about loan 1 should be upheld. But she did recommend her second loan be upheld because 
the information Mrs C declared as part of her application as well as Fund Ourselves credit 
search results showed she didnt have enough disposable income to afford the repayments. 
Fund Ourselves accepted the investigators recommendation and it explained that to date 
Mrs C had repaid £920 towards the balance so she would still owe £280 but 
Fund Ourselves said it would work with Mrs C to put a new repayment plan in place. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the outcome. She explained that when she applied for the loans she 
wasnt asked for evidence of her wages and she didnt have to prove that she could afford 
the repayments. Had further evidence been requested then Fund Ourselves wouldnt have 
advanced either loan. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mrs C could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mrs Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs C. These factors 
include:
Mrs C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs C. As there were only 2 loans the 
investigator didnt think this applied to Mrs Cs complaint and I agree. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay the loans 
 not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs C was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Loan 1
As part of her application, Mrs C declared a full-time monthly income of £2,100. Mrs C also 
declared monthly outgoings of £1,209 to cover several different items including, food, other 
credit commitments and utilities. 
Fund Ourselves says that it checked the accuracy of Mrs Cs income through a credit 
reference agency, and the result it was given, indicated that Mrs Cs declared income was 
likely to be accurate. 
I understand that Miss C says her income wasnt as high as she told Fund Ourselves and it 
ought to have verified what she told it. But for a first loan, where Fund Ourselves did go 
beyond just relying on what Mrs C declared about her income  I do think it was reasonable 
for it to have relied not just what Mrs C declared but also the results of its income check. 
So, while Mrs Cs income may not have been what she declared, I dont think there was 
anything in what Fund Ourselves saw or in the information it was given to have made it 
question whether it needed to do further checks into Mrs Cs income. 
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Mrs C provided that she had enough 
disposable income to be able to afford her repayments of £233.  Before the loan was approved Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth 
saying here that although Fund Ourselves carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, there was some historic adverse data such as 
what looks like a County Court judgement from 2018 but Mrs C had been discharged from 
this in 2019. But I dont think Fund Ourselves wouldve been too concerned by this given the 
amount of time that has passed. 
There was also information that suggested Mrs Cs monthly credit commitments were 
greater than the £225 she had declared to Fund Ourselves  these commitments were likely  
around £700 per month. But even substituting that figure into the rest of the expenditure 
information Mrs C declared, she still had sufficient disposable income to potentially afford the 
repayment for this loan. 
This was the first loan, so I think it was reasonable for Fund Ourselves to have relied on the 
information Mrs C provided about her income and expenditure along with the results of its 
own checks which showed she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. 
There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mrs C was having either current financial 
difficulties or anything to suggest that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Fund Ourselves 
decision to lend this loan.  
Loan 2
The investigator upheld Mrs Cs complaint about this loan because she concluded, based on 
the information Mrs C gave to Fund Ourselves along with the credit check results which 
Fund Ourselves received, showed the loan wasnt affordable for her. Fund Ourselves has 
now accepted this loan ought to not have been provided because it agreed with what the 
investigator recommended it do in order to resolve the complaint. 
So, to me it seems that this loan is no longer in dispute because Fund Ourselves has made 
an offer to put things right for Mrs C  so I dont need to make a finding as to whether it was 
right or wrong for Fund Ourselves to have granted this loan. 
Fund Ourselves offer is in line with what the investigator recommended and in line with the 
well-established approach the Financial Ombudsman takes when asking a lender to put 
something right for a consumer and where there is an outstanding balance to pay. This was 
the correct approach to take so I do not propose to recommend anything different. 
For completeness, Ive outlined below what Fund Ourselves ought to do (which it has 
already agreed to) to put things right for Mrs C as a fair and reasonable outcome to her 
complaint.
Putting things right
If Fund Ourselves has sold the outstanding debt then it should buy it back if Fund Ourselves 
is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Fund Ourselves is unable to buy the 
debt back then Fund Ourselves should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.A. Fund Ourselves should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
any upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs C as though 
they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in 
Mrs C having made overpayments then Fund Ourselves should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
B. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mrs C. However, if there 
is still an outstanding balance then Fund Ourselves should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs C. I would also remind Fund Ourselves of its regulatory 
obligation to treat Mrs C fairly and with forbearance.  
C. Fund Ourselves should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit 
file in relation to loan 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Fund Ourselves to deduct tax from this interest. Fund 
Ourselves should give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint in part about loan 2 
only. 
FUND OURSELVES LIMITED should put things right for Mrs C as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman