DRN-3079247
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were sold the MPPI policy in 1997, at the same time as taking out a mortgage. 
There is a question around when Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage first began  Mr and Mrs M say 
that the mortgage may have been taken out in 1986, when they were married. But it appears 
that in 1997 Mr and Mrs M applied for either a new mortgage, or a further advance on an 
existing mortgage of nearly £24,000  and this is when the MPPI was sold.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for them, so Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say that they have no recollection of taking out MPPI, and that they would 
never have taken it out. Lloyds has explained that other than details of the MPPI, it doesnt 
have any paperwork from the time of sale. But this isnt unusual  and businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. 
So, because of the lack of information available Im unable to say that Mr and Mrs M werent 
given a choice by Lloyds in taking out the MPPI, and I cant uphold their complaint for this 
reason. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M say that I cant say that they were given a choice either  
and that this works both ways. And I agree  it is precisely because of the lack of evidence 
one way or another, that I cannot make a finding on this point.
Lloyds has also told us that Mr M made a successful claim on the MPPI policy for 
unemployment  so they wouldve been aware at some point of the MPPI policy being in 
place  although they may have now forgotten about this due to the passage of time.  
Lloyds has told us that as there are no records, they have assumed that the PPI policy was 
sold in a branch. This is because a branch sale wouldve included advice and 
recommendations  meaning Lloyds had a higher level or responsibility to Mr and Mrs M in 
terms of the sale. 
So as Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M  it needed to make sure that 
the MPPI was right for them, rather than just providing information to them. And it seems to 
have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr and Mrs M dont appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about their circumstances it looks 
like the policy couldve been useful to them. So, I dont think better information wouldve 
made a difference. 
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy - Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - who make the rules 
for financial businesses - have introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when looking at PPI complaints that are affected by this court ruling.
What this means is that if businesses expected to get a high level of commission from the 
PPI - more than half of what the consumer paid for the policy - they should have told the 
consumer about it. If that didnt happen, it might mean the business didnt treat the consumer 
fairly. And, in turn the business might have to give the consumer some of that commission 
back.
But there are certain types of mortgage agreement that this doesnt apply to - one of which is
whats known as a regulated mortgage. From the information Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage - and so I dont think Lloyds have to refund any of the 
commission they paid for the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Ms comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman