DRN-3989129
The complaint
Mrs U complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined a claim for flood damage to 
her car, under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs U says she went to use her car and found that it wouldnt start. She contacted a 
breakdown service who responded the same day. Mrs U says the engineer couldnt start her 
car either and told her the fuses and wiring were wet, which posed a risk of fire and/or 
electrocution. 
The car was recovered to a local garage. Mrs U says the garage couldnt carry out repairs 
but advised the electrics would need to be checked and replaced as necessary. She 
contacted Ageas and it arranged for the car to be collected from her address. Mrs U says 
she was told by its agent on a subsequent call that the car was likely to be a total loss and 
she would receive a settlement payment. 
Mrs U says around three weeks after Ageas collected her car, it told her that her claim was 
declined. She was told there was no sign of water damage to the engine. Mrs U disputed this 
informing Ageas it was the battery chamber not the engine that was the problem. 
In its decline letter Ageas says its engineer performed an in-depth inspection of Mrs Us car. 
He found no indication of water ingress to the air filter housing or air intake system. It says 
he also found no water ingress to the engine, but the pollen filter was showing signs of water 
ingress. Ageas concluded the water ingress was a maintenance issue and not covered by its 
policy. It told Mrs U she was liable for storage fees for her vehicle as her claim was declined. 
Mrs U complained to Ageas. In its response it says its engineers findings didnt support 
flood damage as an insured cause and it didnt agree to arrange a further inspection. Mrs U 
thought this was unfair and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Us complaint. She agreed with Ageass view that there 
was no evidence an insured event had occurred. She says Ageass engineer confirmed the 
water ingress was due to blocked drain holes. This was due to wear and tear and/or a 
mechanical issue, which isnt covered by the policy. Our investigator says the damage Mrs U 
describes to her battery chamber and wiring was as a result of this water ingress.
Mrs U didnt agree with this outcome. She says the engineer didnt inspect the battery 
chamber, which is under the drivers footwell. She says stormy weather resulted in an 
excessive amount of leaves and rainwater collecting over several days, which led to the 
water damage. She didnt think our investigators decision was fair and asked for an 
ombudsman consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Us complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its for the insured to show that theyve suffered an insured loss (fire, flood, theft etc.). If they 
can do so then, generally speaking, the insurer should pay the claim unless its able to rely 
on a policy exclusion not to.
Mrs U says her car was subject to flood damage, which caused damage to the battery 
chamber, electrics, and fuses. Ive read her policy terms and conditions to understand what 
cover is in place. I cant see that there is a specific mention of flood/water damage. Section 
A entitled, Damage to your car refers to accidental damage. It may be that cover is 
provided under this section. However, Ageas doesnt dispute that cover is in place for flood 
damage or damage caused by water ingress. Its decline decision is based on how this 
damage occurred. So, Ive thought about whether its decision to decline the claim for this 
reason is fair.
In its decline letter Ageas says water was found in the pollen filter housing, which it says is a 
maintenance issue, and not something covered by its policy. In its subsequent complaint 
response, it says its engineers findings dont support flood damage as a cause. Ive read the 
engineers report Ageas has supplied to understand his findings more fully. The report says:
There is no water ingress or water damage to the engine. Water in pollen filter housing is, in 
the main, a result of blocked drainage holes. This would cause water ingress to the interior 
and notably on this model can affect the fuse box. It is possible pollen cover had not been 
replaced correctly after a service? Water in pollen filter housing would be a maintenance 
issue and as such is not covered.
Based on the engineers findings the water damage to the fuse box was thought to originate 
from water ingress through the pollen filter housing. 
I can see our investigator queried with Ageas whether it was prepared pay for an inspection 
of the damaged electrics Mrs U was concerned about. It says it wasnt prepared to do this. It 
also comments in more detail that the underlying cause of the water ingress was the result of 
blocked drainage holes, which has occurred over a period of time. It says the water Mrs U 
reported in the battery and fuse box was a direct result of water entering her car in this way. 
Mrs Us policy terms set out the following exclusions, again under section A. This says:
What is not insured
Wear and tear
Mechanical, electrical, electronic and computer failures or breakdowns or 
breakages.   
Ive looked at the photos Mrs U provided that were taken of the battery and fuse box. This 
shows clear signs of water ingress and damage. However, the policy terms are clear that 
wear and tear isnt a cause that is covered. I think Ageas has fairly relied on its engineers 
opinion that the water ingress was caused by a build-up of material over time that blocked 
the drainage holes. This has resulted in water ingress into Mrs Us car, which found its way 
into the footwell and the battery box beneath. Im sorry Mrs Us car has been damaged, but I dont think Ageas acted unfairly when relying 
on its policy terms and declining the claim for the reasons it gave. Because of this I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore.
I note Ageas has confirmed that it isnt charging Mrs U storage fees, which I think is fair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman