DRN-4334185
The complaint
Mr D has complained that The Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society Limited trading as 
Foresters Friendly Society (Foresters) declined a claim made under his sickness and 
accident policy.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here 
in detail. In summary Mr D submitted a claim for Permanent Total Disability following an 
accident in 2017 when he was seriously injured. Our investigator didnt find that Foresters 
had unfairly declined the claim, but she did recommend that £150 was paid in compensation 
for delay. Foresters agreed to this, but Mr D appealed. 
Mr D is represented by Mrs D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly though Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find the key issues are. Our rules allow me 
to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative 
to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive 
fully reviewed the file and having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our 
investigator for the following reasons:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ds policy and the available evidence, to 
decide whether I think Foresters treated Mr D fairly.
Benefit is payable under Mr Ds policy for Permanent Total Disability if the 
policyholder is unable to perform any gainful employment and unable to exist 
independently and requires continual supervision and frequent attention of a third 
party for the six Activities of Daily Living listed in the policy. The inability to carry out 
the six activities must be irreversible and permanent. This is a stringent definition.
It is not in dispute that Mr D is unable to work, following a serious accident. However 
the medical evidence, and I wont repeat the sensitive details here, doesnt show 
that he meets the stringent policy definition with regards to the activities of daily 
living. These are 1) Feeding/Eating Cutting meat, buttering bread, getting food and 
drink to the mouth using fingers or utensils. 2) Dressing Dressing oneself including 
fastening zips and buttons, getting clothes from wardrobes or drawers. 3) 
Bathing/Grooming Turning on taps, getting in and out of bath/shower, washing face 
and hands, drying oneself, combing hair. 4) Toiletting Moving into and out of the 
bathroom, getting on and off the toilet unaided, recognising the need to void bladder 
and bowel in time to get to the toilet. 5) Mobility and Transfer Getting into and out of 
bed, transferring from one place to another, e.g.chair to bed chair to standing chair 
to chair 6) Walking Moving from one location to another  walking or wheeling or 
using a walking frame.
I havent disregarded Mrs Ds submissions about the support and supervision Mr D 
needs. I note that Mrs D has given up her career to care for Mr D. But in all the 
circumstances, and given the documented improvements in Mr Ds condition, I dont 
find it was unfair or unreasonable for Foresters to conclude on the basis of the 
medical evidence that Mr D didnt meet the policy definition for Permanent Total 
Disability when it assessed his claim. 
Ive considered to the time taken by Foresters to assess Mr Ds claim. As Mr D will 
appreciate, this wasnt straightforward, and a good deal of medical evidence was 
requested and follow ups required in some instances. Foresters is not able to control 
how long it takes for a physician, or their office, to reply. But we do expect an insurer 
to be proactive in this this regard and make sure that answers are chased where 
need be. On the whole I find that Foresters were proactive. However, I note there 
was a lapse after the first response when further medical evidence was provided. 
Ive seen no evidence that Foresters took any action for six weeks, and Mrs D was 
obliged to chase to find out what was happening. I agree that it would have been 
stressful for Mr D awaiting a response, especially given his poor health. I find 
compensation is merited and I agree with our investigator that £150 is a fair sum in 
the circumstances.
For completeness I would make two further points. Firstly, I appreciate that Mr D 
thought the policy would cover him in the event he was unable to work following an 
accident. But the policy terms, although they set a high bar, are clear. I havent 
considered the sale of the policy, as it was not sold by Foresters. Secondly, I am not 
able to make any finding with regard to the alleged breaches of the Equality Act, this 
is out with the function of this Service and is a matter for the courts. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require The Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society Limited trading as Foresters 
Friendly Society to pay Mr D £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman