DRN-4102267
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough to protect 
him from losing money to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, from April 2018 to February 2021 Mr H made numerous payments 
from his NatWest account for what he thought was a legitimate investment with a third party 
Ill call N. The payments totalled £97,420.60. Some of the payments were made by bank 
transfer, and some were made by debit card.
Mr H later got in touch with NatWest in 2022 to report that hed been scammed and hed lost 
his money. NatWest didnt reimburse Mr H his lost funds. Mr H was unhappy and referred 
his complaint about NatWest to us, the Financial Ombudsman Service. As our Investigator 
couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint about NatWest, for materially and, in essence, the 
same reasons as our Investigator.
Im really sorry Mr H lost this money. He has my heartfelt sympathy. But this doesnt 
automatically entitle him to a refund from NatWest. 
Banks have various and long-standing obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests. But these are predicated on there having been a fraud or 
scam. So, my first consideration must be whether N was operating a scam as Mr H alleges.
Was N operating a scam?
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were
arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Bearing this in mind, in this case Im not persuaded that at the relevant time N was operating 
a scam. I say this because:
The International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) is an 
international body that brings together the worlds securities regulators. Ive found no 
adverse information about N recorded on IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal. Whilst this 
isnt automatically conclusive in its own right, bearing in mind the duration for which 
N appears to have been operating, and the length of time that has since passed, it 
would, in my view, by very surprising (and unlikely) that N wouldnt have at least 
some warning recorded about it in the public domain, if it was indeed operating a 
scam as Mr H alleges. 
Ive taken on board Mr Hs submissions, including what hes said about (1) N having 
initially cold-called him; (2) that hes corresponded with other people online whove 
been scammed by N and have had similar experiences; and (3) that, he says, his 
experience with N followed the same pattern as other investment scams. However, 
customers can lose a lot of money with high-risk investments. This can lead to a 
sense of being scammed, particularly if some questionable practices are involved. 
However, this doesnt mean N was operating a scam, bearing in mind what Ive 
already said about this. Like our Investigator, my own research hasnt resulted in any 
compelling information to show N was acting fraudulently. And what Mr H has said 
about him being initially cold-called, and the pattern of his dealings with N, doesnt 
persuade me, in the absence of other sufficiently persuasive evidence, that there is 
enough here for me to reasonably conclude N was most likely operating a scam. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the weight of evidence is tipped in Mr Hs favour. I give 
strong weight to the fact there are no regulator warnings about N being a scam; and 
that I havent found anything else online in the public domain to persuade me N was 
operating a scam. 
In these circumstances, whilst I understand Mr H will be really disappointed, Im not 
persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support that N was operating a scam at the time he 
made his payments. 
Prevention
Although banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams, there is no obligation to 
protect against bad bargains or to provide investment advice. So, as Im not sufficiently 
persuaded N was operating a scam, I cant reasonably say NatWest had obligations to 
intervene in the payments before they were sent. This means I cant reasonably uphold this 
complaint on the basis that NatWest failed to prevent Mr Hs payments.
However, for the sake of completeness, even though, because of what Ive said above, I 
couldnt reasonably uphold the complaint on this basis, Ive nonetheless (like I say, for the 
sake of completeness only) thought about what I think most likely would have happened if N 
was operating a scam, and if NatWest had intervened before the payments were sent. If this 
had been the situation:
Im satisfied Mr H authorised the relevant payments. NatWest would generally be 
expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under The 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr H is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he 
authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry practice NatWest 
should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  
particularly sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious transactions  that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments 
made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to 
stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. 
Some of Mr Hs payments were such that Id reasonably expected NatWest to have 
paused them, pending enquiries with Mr H; and to have then spoken to him to ask 
him who the payments were for, what they were for, and for the basic surrounding 
context, and to have then proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to 
disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam. I think if this had happened, Mr H would 
have explained his payments were for an investment with N and the general context 
and the manner of his dealings with them so far.
If N was operating a scam (which as Ive said, Im not sufficiently persuaded of), I 
dont think NatWest could reasonably have known this. I think it could only 
reasonably have been expected to warn Mr H about the risk of fraud and scams and 
the importance of undertaking adequate research and checks before making an 
investment like this. However, Im not satisfied this or any further research by Mr H 
would have uncovered anything that contradicted what he already thought he knew 
about N. Neither did NatWest have any obligation to provide Mr H with investment 
advice or to protect him from a bad bargain. So, bearing in mind it appears Mr H had 
already only seen information that reassured him of Ns legitimacy, and that Ive not 
seen anything that leads me to think there was anything in the public domain that 
would have contradicted this or changed Mr Hs opinion on this, Im not persuaded 
its most likely that any reasonable level of intervention from NatWest would have 
prevented Mr H from proceeding with the payments anyway. 
So even if N was operating a scam (which as Ive already said, Im not sufficiently persuaded 
on, but for the sake of completeness), I still dont think I could fairly say NatWest 
unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the payments before they were sent (nor 
therefore Mr Hs loss). 
Recovery
In terms of recovery of the payments after they were sent, I understand that when Mr H 
reported to NatWest in 2022 that hed been scammed, NatWest got in touch with the 
beneficiary banks Mr Hs bank transfers were sent to, but unfortunately it was unable to 
recover the funds for Mr H through no fault of its own. With scams, it seems to be a common 
occurrence that the beneficiary account is drained of the funds promptly on receipt, 
presumably to limit chances of any potential recovery. So if N had been operating a scam 
(which Ill say again, Im not persuaded on), I dont think it would be unfair to say in a case 
like this where Mr H didnt report to NatWest that hed been scammed until quite some time 
after the payments, it would therefore tend to be unusual for the funds to remain in the 
beneficiary account by then. So I dont think its NatWests fault Mr H was unable to recover 
these funds.  
With regards to recovery of the debit card payments, the only potential avenue for recovery 
of these would have been through the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a voluntary 
scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes between merchants and cardholders. 
Theres no right to a chargeback, but I generally consider it to be good practice that a 
chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. However, NatWest is 
bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules, meaning there are only limited 
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. And I agree with our Investigator that chargeback 
claims are unlikely to have succeeded here. Some of the payments would probably have 
fallen down on time limits (being raised too late), but in any event Mr Hs card payments 
werent made to N directly but instead to what appears to be money transfer service, which appears to have provided the services intended. So I cant reasonably say chargeback 
claims would likely have been successful. So again, I dont think it was NatWests fault Mr H 
was unable to recover these funds. 
I realise this means Mr H is out of pocket, and Im really sorry hes lost this money. However, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think this is NatWests fault. I cant reasonably tell 
NatWest to reimburse him in circumstances where I dont think it ought reasonably to have 
prevented the payments or been able to recover them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman