DRN-4263801
The complaint
Mr E says Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) failed to honour the life assurance cover provided 
with his personal pension plan in relation to terminal illness benefit. He says even if his 
policy didnt include such cover, Phoenix shouldve made that clear to him in 2018 when it 
provided him with information about a potential replacement policy. Hes concerned about 
the financial position of his wife on his passing.
Mr E is represented by his independent financial adviser (IFA).
What happened
Im sorry Mr E and his family are in a very sad and difficult situation.
Mr E was diagnosed with a serious health condition in November 2019 and given a 
prognosis of limited life expectancy in December 2021. Hed had life assurance benefit 
linked to his personal pension policy held with Phoenix. But this had expired on 8 May 2022 
when he reached 65.
Mr E disclosed his health situation to his IFA in November 2022. His IFA made him aware 
that he might be eligible to make a claim on the life assurance benefit linked to his personal 
pension policy. 
Mr E tried to make a retrospective claim on his life assurance cover for terminal illness 
benefit. Phoenix considered Mr Es claim but rejected it. It said his policy hadnt included 
terminal illness cover.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with Phoenixs response. As well as challenging the coverage of his 
policy, he also raised the interaction hed had with it in 2018 when he was considering 
switching his pension benefits. He says he was informed about a replacement life assurance 
policy available which was like-for-like. This had terminal illness cover. He didnt take out 
the new cover but says if hed known his existing policy didnt provide terminal illness benefit 
hed have bought the replacement policy.
An Investigator considered Mr Es case but didnt uphold it. On reviewing the terms and 
conditions of his personal pension plan and life assurance policy, he didnt find it provided for 
terminal illness cover. He also considered Mr Es decision in 2018 not to switch his personal 
pension was mainly influenced by his decision to maximise his pension income.
Mr E disagreed with the Investigators view and so his case has been passed to me to 
review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Phoenix for Mr E. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Es complaint.
The first thing I reviewed were the terms and conditions associated with the life assurance 
cover Mr E had taken out in 1989. This documentation has been shared with him and his 
representative. Like the Investigator Ive concluded his policy didnt provide for terminal 
illness benefits.
Mr Es case then turns on what happened in 2018. In responding to the Investigators view, 
his IFA said:
In 2018, a series of communications took place between [Mr E], [Phoenix]and [his IFA] 
to understand the options he had on his pension. Mr E ideally wanted to transfer his policy 
away, but a decision was made to retain the policy so that he would not lose out on a bonus 
payable at retirement.
This decision was made following a series of letters and phone calls with the provider in 
which they provided incorrect guidance about the minimum contribution required to maintain 
his bonus, and in order to retain his valuable life assurance benefit.
given the language Phoenix Life used when describing a like-for-like policy both in 
writing and in telephone clarification it seemed unnecessary to take up the option of [a 
replacement life assurance policy] given this would provide identical cover...
Mr E is infuriated at the suggestion that he would have knowingly made a choice to forego 
the chance to upgrade his cover to include terminal illness benefit for no additional cost or 
underwriting, particularly as his medical history includes a heart attack which pre-dates 
2018. He feels that if this opportunity was clearly highlighted then this alone would have 
been enough motivation to transfer out of the scheme, regardless of any loss of the bonus 
payable at retirement...
Ive reviewed Phoenixs communications with Mr E in 2018. For example, the quote it 
provided for a replacement policy said:As advised in our retirement letters, your pension plan cannot be used to continue your life 
assurance cover. This cover must cease at your normal retirement age or following payment 
of your pension benefits by way of Annuity, Commutation, Open Market Option or Transfer if 
taken earlier.
However, you have the option of applying to continue the same life assurance cover for the 
same premium under a new Fixed Term Security Plan (FTSP). If you decide to apply for this 
new FTSP you will not need to provide any further medical evidence.'
Mr E feels Phoenix was proposing a like-for-like offer on life assurance. And so it was 
reasonable for him to assume his then existing cover already included everything that was in 
the FTSP. While I understand the point he makes, arguably it wouldve been prudent to have 
made a full comparison. There will have been considerable developments in financial 
product offerings over 30 years.
FTSP was a new policy. It provided the same life assurance cover as his existing policy for 
the same price and for the same period. It also offered Mr E the opportunity to enhance his 
cover compared to his then existing policy, through the addition at no charge of terminal 
illness benefit.
Phoenix wasnt providing Mr E with advice. It was providing him with information. Even if I 
accepted that it shouldve drawn his attention to the differences between his existing policy 
and what he couldve bought to replace it, the question I need to consider is had he and/or 
his IFA understood the differences, would it have impacted on his decision making?
In deciding a complaint I need to avoid the benefit of hindsight. I recognise Mr E had pre-
existing medical conditions in 2018 and that life assurance was important to him. But Im 
mindful it wasnt until the end of 2019 he received a diagnosis for his condition and not until 
the end of 2021 that he was advised his life expectancy was less than 12 months.
I have to make judgements based on the balance of probabilities. And, based on the 
information Ive seen, Ive concluded that in 2018 its more likely than not Mr Es priority was 
maximising his pension pot. Im not persuaded the offer of an enhanced life assurance policy 
wouldve altered the decisions he made about his pension and cover at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman