DRN-2468521
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how his hire purchase agreement ended and the way it was dealt with 
by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), following the return of his car.
What happened
On 28 April 2017, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. The agreement was for 36 months; with monthly payments of £240.66 and a 
final optional payment of £11,091.25 if Mr M wanted to purchase the car.
On 22 May 2020, Mr M contacted VWFS and told them he didnt want to make the final 
payment and he wanted to return the car instead. But, on 28 May 2020, VWFS attempted to 
collect the final payment. The payment didnt go through, and VWFS arranged to collect the 
car. The car was eventually collected in July 2020.
Mr M complained to VWFS about them attempting to collect the final payment and about the 
delay in collecting the car  he said he had to tax and insure the car until it was collected. 
VWFS apologised for whatd happened and offered Mr M £100 compensation. They also 
agree to refund him his tax and insurance payments between 28 May and 10 July 2020. Mr 
M was unhappy with VWFSs response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the agreement ended on 28 May 2020. And he thought the collection of 
the car had been affected by the national lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic  
while the lockdown had ended by 28 May 2020, the agent that VWFS used to collect cars 
hadnt been able to work during the lockdown and had a backlog as a result. Which meant 
there was a delay in the car being collected from Mr M. 
The investigator said that, while these were unforeseen circumstances outside of VWFSs 
control, it wasnt fair that Mr M had to tax and insure the car for longer than he should 
normally have had to. And he thought that VWFSs offer to reimburse Mr M the cost of the 
tax and insurance was reasonable in the circumstances. 
The investigator also said that VWFS had tried to collect the final payment in error, and this 
caused Mr M some frustration and inconvenience. But, because the payment wasnt 
collected, he didnt think that Mr M had suffered financially as a result. So he thought 
VWFSs offer of £100 was fair, and he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He said VWFSs final complaint response letter, where they said theyd 
failed to stop the final payment being collected, is an admission of guilt. He said he was 
financially impacted by the final payment trying to be collected, as his bank card was locked 
and a supermarket transaction he tried to make the same day was declined as a result  the 
car wasnt unlocked until later that same day. Mr M has also said that VWFS showed no 
urgency in collecting the car, which didnt take place on 10 July 2020 but later in the week. 
Because of all that happened, Mr M doesnt think £100 compensation is sufficient  he said 
he was offered £100 by VWFS to resolve his complaint, and not bring it to ourselves for 
investigation, which he also considers to be a bribe.
As a result of Mr Ms comments, the investigator asked him for some evidence i.e. a letter 
from his bank, that VWFSs attempt to collect the payment caused his account to be 
blocked, and card transactions declined. With this, the investigator said he could reconsider 
what was an appropriate remedy in the circumstances. But Mr M said the final payment was 
still pending till I got it removed. Which took some time. Blocking any other payment from 
that account. He also said that, when he spoke to the collection agent on 6 July 2020, he 
was told there wasnt much of a backlog.
Because Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
The facts of this case arent disputed. Mr M called VWFS on 22 May 2020 to tell them he 
didnt want to take advantage of the option to purchase the car. VWFS have explained that, 
as payments are collected by direct debit, and direct debits payments are processed 10 days 
before theyre due, the collection of the final payment was already set up and ready. So 
VWFS shouldve put a block on the payment, but they didnt do so. And this resulted in an 
attempt to collect the final payment on 28 May 2020. Mr M has confirmed that the final 
payment wasnt collected as there were insufficient funds in his account at the time.
Ive considered what was likely to have happened when VWFS attempted to collect the final 
payment. What Mr M has described  a pending payment for more than the available 
balance in an account stopping any further card transactions taking place  is not unusual 
when the pending payment is attempted to be collected by a debit card transaction. But this 
is not typically what happens when the payment has tried to be collected by direct debit. In 
these circumstances the direct debit will fail, and it shouldnt have any effect on any other 
attempted transactions.
Mr M has said that he had transactions declined because of the failed direct debit which, as 
Ive said, is unusual. And hes not been able to provide any evidence from his bank to show 
that was the case, and that any transactions werent declined for other unrelated reasons. 
The letter hes provided from his bank just confirms that the final payment of £11,091.25 
went unpaid and [the] Direct Debit was cancelled on 28 May 2020.
Its clear that VWFS made an error by not stopping the direct debit, and Ill deal with what I 
consider to be an appropriate remedy for this at the end of my decision.Turning to the collection of the car, Ive seen that Mr M first enquired about returning the car 
on 11 April 2020. In response to his enquiry, VWFS sent him an email confirming there was 
going to be a delay in any collection of the car because of the national lockdown. They 
explained that he didnt need to keep the car insured, but he would need to keep it taxed. 
Based on this email, Im satisfied that Mr M was aware there was a delay, the reasons for 
the delay, and what he would need to do while he was waiting for his car to be collected.
Ive seen theres some dispute about the actual day the car was collected. VWFS say this 
took place on Friday 10 July 2020, but Mr M says the car was collected later that week. 
Hes also said it wasnt collected until Wednesday 15 July 2020.
The fact there was a delay in collecting the car isnt in dispute. And Mr M was aware of this 
and the reasons why. Because this delay was caused by the national lockdown, Im satisfied 
it was outside of VWFSs control. And I dont doubt the collection agent wouldve had a 
backlog once they were allowed to collect cars again. Mr M has said the agent told him on 6 
July there wasnt much of a backlog, and this mayve been the case at that point in time. But 
it doesnt mean that there wasnt a backlog once the lockdown ended; or that this backlog 
needed to be cleared before Mr Ms car could be collected.
VWFS offered Mr M £100 compensation for the error with the direct debit. And theyve also 
offered to reimburse Mr M with the cost of taxing and insuring the car between the end of the 
agreement and when the car was collected, even though theyd already told him that he 
didnt need to insure the car. For the reasons stated above, and the limited impact it had on 
Mr M, Im satisfied this is a reasonable offer in the circumstances.
Mr M considers the fact that VWFS offered him £100 to resolve his complaint, and not bring 
it to us, to be a bribe. But I disagree. Financial businesses are entitled to make an offer of 
compensation, and this would be on the basis that the complaint is resolved. And consumers 
are entitled to reject any offer and bring their complaint to us for an independent review. 
Which is what happened in this instance  VWFS not only offered Mr M a resolution to his 
complaint, but they also confirmed to him in writing, on two occasions, that he had the right 
to bring his complaint to us. So I dont think VWFS have done anything wrong in making their 
offer, and I wont be asking them to do anything more. Its for Mr M to now decide whether to 
accept VWFSs offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman