DRN-3724097
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) reported information to credit 
reference agencies on how he managed his account as it will result in a negative impact on 
further lending.
What happened
Mr H held an account with Santander without an agreed overdraft. In August of 2020 Mr Hs 
account went into unarranged overdraft and didnt see a credit balance again.
Santander wrote to Mr H about the status of his account and asked for payment in March 
2021. Following no response Santander sent further letters in August, September and 
October 2021 requesting payment and outlining what would happen if a plan wasnt agreed 
or payment received - including it cancelling direct debits and putting a block on his card. 
Following these letters Mr H got in contact with Santander in October 2021 and agreed to 
pay £50 a month for two months and then they would review his financial situation and agree 
a plan. Mr H made one £50 payment on 29 October 2021 at which point the account had an 
outstanding balance of £522.97. 
As no further payments were received Santander again wrote to Mr H on a number of 
occasions, requesting he pay the outstanding balance or get in touch to set up a payment 
plan. But as Mr H failed to respond it issued a default notice on 31 January 2022 and the 
debt was passed to a debt collection agency in March 2022.
Mr H complained to Santander about a default being applied to his credit file. Santander said  
no banking error had been made and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr H was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong in reporting the default on Mr Hs account as it was 
an accurate reflection of what happened.
Mr H disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr H has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr H back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
As outlined in the background Mr H held an account with Santander which became 
permanently overdrawn in late 2020. 
Mr H complains that it was unfair for Santander to report information to credit reference 
agencies about how he managed his account with it. He says there was no payment plan 
agreed on the outstanding amount and that all that was agreed was to pay £50 for two 
months and that there was no indication that he had to make agreed payments following this 
and as such it wasnt fair that a default was registered. 
Ive carefully reviewed Santanders internal call notes and they record that Mr H understood 
he was in arrears and had received all the correspondence requesting payment or for a plan 
to be set up. As Mr H didnt wish to go through his income and expenditure Santander 
agreed he could pay £50 a month for two months and following that he would need to call on 
the 1 December for a review. Mr H was informed of the consequences of not calling back 
and setting up a plan including the reporting of a default to the credit reference agencies. I 
can see that Santander also sent a letter out confirming what was agreed the same day. 
Following this I can see from Mr Hs bank statements that he made one payment of £50 and 
that there were no further credits. Santander then wrote to Mr H on six separate occasions 
requesting payment of the outstanding balance or he get in touch to set up a payment plan. 
The letters also outlined the consequences of what would happen if he didnt get in touch 
including the reporting of a default to the credit reference agencies. As Mr H failed to 
respond Santander issued a default notice on 31 January 2022 and passed the debt to a 
third-party debt collection agency.
So, based on the above I dont think Santander has made a mistake or treated Mr H unfairly. 
It made an agreement with Mr H and informed him of what would happen if he broke the 
agreement. Mr H failed to make all the initial payments or get in touch to set up a repayment 
plan and Santander took action to recoup its losses. 
I understand Mr H might be unhappy about the reporting of this on his credit file but 
Santander does have a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs 
to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. So again, I cant say 
Santander has done anything wrong here and it follows that I do not uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman