DRN-2643024
The complaint
Ms L complains that NewDay Ltd acted irresponsibly in giving her a credit card without 
carrying out the proper checks.
What happened
 In June 2018 Ms L applied for a credit card using an online comparison web site. She gave 
her details including name, address and date of birth. She also stated that she was a 
homeowner and was employed with an annual income of £20,930.
The card was approved after carrying out a credit check and Ms L was given a credit limit of 
£450. She made regular payments, sometimes paying more than the minimum payment 
required. However, in April 2019 Ms L found herself in financial difficulty and contacted a 
debt charity. A repayment plan was agreed for £5 per month.
In the summer of 2020 Ms L made a complaint to NewDay that it hadnt carried out 
appropriate checks. This was rejected. It acknowledged there were defaults showing on her 
credit file, but these were more than 13 months old and the card was designed for those with 
a poor credit history.
Ms L brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. Ms L said her self-employed income had been 
overstated. Our investigator noted Ms L had six defaults on her credit file with a total value of 
£7,300 despite her claiming she had only £200 of unsecured debt.
Our investigator said that while defaults alone shouldnt prevent someone being given a 
credit card it should have been clear that she was struggling to deal with debts which 
amounted to over a third of her self-declared income. 
NewDay said Ms L had been able to make the early payments, but our investigator noted 
that she was using the card heavily for cash advances which allowed her to fund those 
payments. 
Ms Ls recent credit file showed that five of the six defaulted accounts present when she 
applied for the credit card were still there. The balances remained high and she had since 
defaulted on another account. It was clear she was struggling to repay her debts.
He appreciated NewDay had declined several requests from Ms L to increase her credit limit 
and when it was made aware she was entering a debt management plan it agreed an 
affordable monthly repayment plan with her. It also stopped applying interest to the account. 
Our investigator thought this was the appropriate response by NewDay. However, he 
thought it should refund all interest and charges plus interest.
NewDay didnt agree and said Ms L had opened the account by deception in using an 
inflated income figure. That said it hadnt simply relied on the information she had supplied 
but had carried out a credit check using industry approved methods which gave her a 
medium score.
It had taken into account her defaults and had allowed her a limit of only £450. It noted that 
she was able to maintain a current account pay a mortgage of £32,000 and hire purchase 
agreement of some £12,000 plus paying utilities. It added that the majority of her debt was 
the mortgage. As an instant credit provider it wasnt obliged to obtain an income and 
expenditure statement. 
It restated the fact that she had been able to make her first four full payments and the 
subsequent minimum payments before getting into difficulties. It didnt believe this was a 
picture of someone who was foregoing necessities to pay off her debt. It said that she not 
paid any late fees and her interest only amounted to £113.95 She had spent £1,650.47 and 
it was right that she paid for goods for which she had the benefit of. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the arguments put forward by NewDay, but I consider I should uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why.
Our investigator has not suggested that Ms L doesnt pay for the goods she purchased so I 
believe his recommendation would not result in her avoiding paying for what she has had the 
benefit of.
Having looked at the application form I can see there are a number of concerns. She had a 
mortgage of £37,000, defaults totalling £7,300, five active accounts or cards and a gross 
annual income of £20,930. 
The business relied on the information she supplied and a credit check which relied on 
industry standard algorithms. I believe this was fairly high-level automated check and I 
accept it is the method used by NewDay. This is in line with the way NewDay conducts its 
business, but on this occasion, I consider the evaluation of Ms Ls financial position was 
such that it allowed her credit which was more than she could afford.
I appreciate she was able to maintain the early payments, but I suspect she was using one 
source to pay another. She was certainly using the card to withdraw significant amounts of 
cash which with the high interest rate she was paying this was an extremely expensive 
means of accessing cash.
There was no test on her self-employed income and while I appreciate she didnt give an 
accurate figure I believe it was reasonable to expect the business to have checked it in the 
light of her credit history.
I accept that this card is aimed at those with a poor credit rating and charges an interest rate 
of some 50% and I believe NewDay was aware of the level of risk. On balance I consider 
that on this occasion the checks carried out by NewDay did not reach the right conclusion. 
Putting things right
 NewDay should refund the interest and charges Ms L has paid.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct NewDay Limited to:
Refund all the interest and charges applied to the account plus 8% simple interest.
This should be used to clear the remaining balance.
Continue to work with Ms L to reduce the balance by means of the agreed repayment 
plan.
Close the account once the balance has been cleared.
Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Ms Ls credit file 
in relation to the account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman