DRN-2791925
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank Plc closed his personal accounts with them without 
providing a clear reason.
What happened
Mr B maintained a banking relationship with Barclays and held various personal account with 
them.
In September 2020, Barclays wrote to Mr B. They told him that theyd taken the decision to 
close your account(s) and all facilities. The letter gave Mr B two months notice and 
provided guidance on steps that Mr B may need to take.
Mr B was unhappy with Barclays decision. He thought that they were being unfair and that 
their decision was based upon other complaints and issues hed had with them. He wanted 
them to reopen his accounts and/or explain why theyd reached the decision they had.
Barclays wrote to Mr B in January 2021. They said that theyd investigated Mr Bs complaint. 
They told him that they hadnt done anything wrong. They also said that they were unable to 
provide specific information on the guidelines used to review his accounts and reach their 
decision to close them.
Mr B was unhappy with Barclays reply. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. He also didnt 
think that Barclays had done anything wrong here.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. So, he asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr B has made various complaints to Barclays. Its important to recognise 
that the complaint referred to this service by Mr B relates only to Barclays notice to close. 
So, while Im aware of the other issues, for the purposes of this decision, I have focussed on 
what is relevant to the closure notice.
Barclays, like any bank, are entitled to close an account, just as any customer may choose 
to close an account with a bank. But where Barclays does close any account, they must do 
so in a way that complies with their terms and conditions.
Its relevant to emphasise that its not the role of this service to questions Barclays terms 
and conditions or the processes that they use. Only that theyve been applied in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Barclays have provided a copy of the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Bs accounts 
with them. Section 11, page 37 of their Retail Customer Agreement details circumstances 
under which Barclays may decide to close a customers account. Ive also reviewed 
Barclays Terms and conditions for Personal customers, available on their website. Page 20 
details the circumstances under which Barclays may close a customers account. 
All banks and building societies in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of any existing banking relationship. That sometimes means banks and 
buildings societies need to restrict, or in some cases, go as far as closing customers 
accounts.
Barclays closure notice makes clear reference to their terms and conditions and provides 
two months notice to Mr B. It also gives guidance for Mr B to allow him to make alternative 
banking arrangements. Im comfortable that Barclays have complied with their terms and 
conditions and that theyve been applied fairly.
Mr B has asked for the specific reasons why his accounts with Barclays have been closed. 
Barclays do not have an obligation to give their reasons. The reasons can be complex and 
can be commercial or meet requirements of a regulatory or legal nature. Barclays have 
provided more specific information to this service. Ive reviewed this information and Im 
satisfied that Barclays havent done anything wrong here. But Im unable to provide specific 
details to Mr B.
Mr B has also suggested that Barclays decision may have been influenced by the other 
issues and complaints hes experienced with Barclays. I would like to assure Mr B that Im 
satisfied this isnt the case here. 
I realise that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision, but I cant agree that Barclays have 
done anything wrong or treated him unfairly. So, Im unable to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman