DRN-4501472
The complaint
Mr S complains that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options - formerly Carey 
Pensions) accepted his investment into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) when, he 
says, it shouldnt have accepted business from the business who introduced him to Options; 
Jackson Francis Ltd (JF), nor accepted the investment JF advised him to make. Mr S 
transferred his only personal pension into the Options SIPP in August 2012 and invested in 
Store First.
Mr S wants to be put back into the position he would have been in had Options not accepted 
his SIPP application.
The parties
Given the various parties involved in Mr Ss pension transfer and subsequent investment Ive 
set out a summary of each below.
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, 
Options was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Options was authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange 
(bring about) deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate 
or wind up a pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments. Ms H is, and was at the time of the relevant events, Options CEO.
Jackson Francis Ltd (JF)
JF was an unregulated business. It appears to have been involved in the promotion of Store 
First investments. The Companies House record indicates it was placed in liquidation on 
11 September 2014. It is recorded that it previously had two Directors: Mr F (until 
31 December 2011) and Mr C (from 1 January 2012).
Store First
The Store First investment took the form of one or more self-storage units, which were part 
of a larger storage facility in a UK location. Investors bought one or more units in the facility 
(pods) and were offered a guaranteed level of income for a set period of time. After that, 
they could either take whatever income the unit(s) provided or sell them (assuming there 
was a market for them). The scheme was promoted by a company called Harley Scott 
Holdings Ltd (Harley Scott). Mr T was a Director of Store First Limited and Harley Scott 
Holdings Limited.
Mr C was a Director of Harley Scott Sales and Marketing Limited from 21 April 2011.
The Store First investment was marketed as offering a guaranteed 8% return in the first two 
years, an indicated return of 10% in the following two years, and 12% in the next two years. 
It was also marketed as offering a guaranteed buy back after five years. But little of this 
materialised. It seems most investors received one- or two-years income of 8%, but nothing 
beyond that. And investors have found it very difficult to sell, with those that have sold 
receiving a small fraction of the amount they paid for their pods.
In the judgment in Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Options Pensions UK LLP) 
[2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) (Adams), the judge found the value of Mr Adams Store First 
pods, acquired for around £52,000 in July 2012, to be £15,000 as of January 2017. I have 
also seen several results of auctions of the pods, where the sale price has been much lower 
than the price at which the pods were purchased.
In May 2014, the Self-Storage Association of the UK (SSA UK) issued a press release 
(amended in January 2015), detailing the outcome of a review it had commissioned Deloitte 
LLP to undertake of the marketing material made available to potential investors by Store 
First. The release recommended that any potential investors in Store First storage units 
consider the following key points before taking any investment decision:
What will the impact be on the business model if VAT is charged on the rental of 
storage units to customers following a review by HMRC?
How is Store First funding guaranteed returns to investors? Is this from operating 
profits, the proceeds from the sale of other storage pods to investors, or a different 
source?
Compare the total value being paid for all the units in a Store First self storage site 
against the price at which stand-alone self-storage businesses have been valued 
and sold at recently.
Consider if there is a realistic re-sale opportunity for, and exit, from this investment, 
particularly if Store First exits the business.
Research the performance of investments based on a similar investment model that 
have been offered primarily in Australia, such as Ikin Self Storage in Townsville, 
Queensland and Strata Self Storage in Melbourne (these schemes had failed).
The release referred to a number of misleading and inaccurate statements made by Store 
First in its marketing material. It also made the following observations:
SSA UKs investigations indicate that these storage units are being rented to the 
general public at approximately £18 - £21 per square foot including insurance. 
Normally the rent paid by a self-storage operator would be at most half of the income 
per square foot earned through storage fees. Presuming the Store First sites were at 
industry average occupancy levels, SSA UK believe that they would have to be 
earning £23.95 per square foot just to pay the guaranteed rent to investors, excluding 
operating costs such as insurance, staff, business rates, utilities, marketing and 
management fees for Store First.
Store First is obliged to pay the guaranteed returns to investors, yet there does not 
appear to be sufficient income from the operations of the business to fund these 
returns.The analysis SSA UK has seen indicates that the purchase price being paid per 
square foot by investors to Store First for these self-storage units taken together 
equates to a much higher value than they would be worth if the whole sites were sold 
as stand-alone self- storage stores.
 a very serious question arises over how Store First is funding the guaranteed 
returns to existing investors, considering the absence of bank funding and the likely 
level of losses that require funding in each new store. It may yet prove to be the case 
that the rental returns being paid to investors are in fact being funded from the sale 
proceeds of new units, and not the operation of the self-storage business.
Store First was the subject of a winding up petition issued by the Business Secretary in 
2017. On 30 April 2019 the courts made an order shutting down Store First and three of the 
related companies by consent between those four companies and the Secretary of State. 
The Official Receiver was appointed as liquidator. At the time, the Chief Investigator for the 
Insolvency Service said:
These four companies unscrupulously secured millions of pounds worth of 
investments using a variety of methods that misled investors, particularly those with 
pension savings.
The court rightly recognised the sheer scale of the problem caused by Store Firsts 
sales of a flawed business model, based on misrepresentation and misleading 
information and has shut down these companies in recognition of the damage done 
to investors retirement plans.
A company called Pay Store now manages the Store First sites and rents out the storage 
units, trading as Store First. The freeholds of each Store First site have been sold by the 
Official Receiver to a company called Store First Freeholds Limited. As a result of this, 
investors have been offered the opportunity to transfer their investment to this company, for 
nil consideration.
What happened - Mr Ss dealings with Jackson Francis, Store First and Options
Mr S was cold-called by a representative of JF about reinvesting his pension and advised 
to transfer the value of his only personal pension into an Options SIPP, and to invest in Store 
First. Mr S agreed to the proposal on the basis that it would grow his pension with, what he 
understood to be, limited risk to his funds. He recalls being told that this was an investment 
that was guaranteed to make money. Mr S has told us that he had no previous investment 
experience, and he did not want to take any risks with his pension as hed been paying into it 
since he was 19 years old and was in his 50s when JF approached him.
On 2 March 2012 Mr S signed an incomplete Options SIPP application form for direct 
clients. On page 12 of the application form Mr S signed a declaration which included, 
amongst other statements, the following:
I agree to indemnify Carey Pensions UK LLP The Administrator and Carey Pension 
Trustees UK against any claim in respect of any decision made by myself and/or my 
Financial Adviser/Investment Manager or any other professional adviser I choose to 
appoint from time to time;
I understand that Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pensions Trustees UK Ltd are 
not in anyway (sic) able to provide me with advice;This application form was sent to Options by JF under cover of a letter dated 27 April 2012. 
Mr S also signed a letter of authority telling Options; I give you permission to liaise with 
Jackson Francis Ltd in respect of my pension transfer.
Mr Ss SIPP was established shortly afterwards, and Options received around £43,000 from 
Mr Ss personal pension provider in August 2012.
JF supplied Options with an undated Alternative Investment  Store First Member 
Declaration and Indemnity which Mr S had signed. This read:
I, [Mr S] being the member of the above Scheme instruct Carey Pension Trustees 
UK Ltd to Purchase a Leasehold Storage Unit(s) in the Store First investment 
through Harley-Scott Holdings Ltd for a consideration of £39,000 on my behalf for the 
above Scheme.
I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is High 
Risk and / or Speculative.
As the Member of the Pension Scheme, I confirm that neither I nor any person 
connected to me is receiving a monetary or other inducement for transacting this 
investment.
I confirm that I have read and understand the documentation regarding this 
investment and have taken my own advice, including financial, investment and tax 
advice.
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK 
Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither Carey Pensions UK LLP 
nor Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice whatsoever in respect 
of this investment.
I confirm that my business /occupation is not renting out storage units.
Should any aspect of this investment be deemed by HMRC to provide Taxable 
Moveable Property and / or any tax charges be deemed by HMRC to apply in future 
these will be paid directly from the fund or by me as the member of the Scheme.
I also understand and agree that, in the event of my demise, if Carey Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd is unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales that it may be 
transferred to my beneficiaries through my estate and accordingly may be subject to 
any Inheritance Tax.
I instruct Carey Pensions to appoint the following solicitor to act on behalf of the 
Scheme:
[details of solicitor]
I confirm that I agree to [name of solicitor] fee of £400 + VAT for transacting this 
investment.
I confirm I am fully aware that additional costs will be incurred in this transaction 
including, but not limited to:£48 CHAPs Fee;
£8 Land Registry Search Fee;
Stamp Duty Land Tax - To be advised by Solicitor at completion;
Any other taxes - To be advised by Solicitor at completion;
I agree to Carey Pensions Fee of £500 + VAT, amounting for transacting this 
investment.
I agree that any and all fees and costs will be paid by my Scheme, or in the event of 
default, by me personally.
In this decision I will refer to this document as the indemnity.
On 12 September 2012 approximately £39,000 of Mr Ss funds were invested into Store 
First. The purchase completed on 17 September 2012.
Over the course of 2013 and 2014 Mr Ss SIPP received a little over £6,000 in rental 
payments. When these stopped, Mr S became concerned about the performance of his 
investment and began to raise his concerns with Options. In responses in 2016 and 2017 
Options told Mr S that it had followed his investment instructions as a direct client and was 
not able to release his funds back to him. It also explained that the Buy Back Agreement 
could not be invoked until September 2017.
I understand that in or around March 2016 Mr S withdrew approximately £5,500 from his 
SIPP as tax free cash.
In September 2017 Options valued Mr Ss investment at approximately £8,000.
What happened  Options, Store First Limited, and Jackson Francis
Ive set out the background to Mr Ss complaint and his dealings with JF, Store First and 
Options above. But alongside those events its important to understand the underlying 
relationship between the businesses involved.
Options has said it received introductions from JF between March 2012 and September 
2012 and it accepted 41 introductions from its clients in total (although in other information 
received by the Financial Ombudsman this figure has been given as 81). Options confirmed 
that all the introductions from JF were so that investments could be made in Store First. 
Options would seem to say in its submission to this service that, although it did monitor 
introductions from JF, that didnt include monitoring them so that it could identify potentially 
unsuitable SIPPs.
The available evidence shows the following actions were taken by Options in relation to the 
Store First investment and its relationship with JF, at the dates mentioned. Some of these 
actions were taken before Options sent Mr Ss money to Store First for investment.
On 3 May 2011 Options was contacted by a promoter of Store First, Harley Scott, about a 
newly launched product  Store First. In the Adams judgment HHJ Dight described this email 
like so:The first contact between the defendant and Store First, which appears to have led 
to the decision that the investment was a legitimate one having regard to HMRC 
guidelines, was in an email dated 3 May 2011 from [Mr C], Network Sales Director, of 
Harley Scott Holdings Limited 
Options agreed to put the investment through its review process.
In its submissions to us Options says this review process was established in accordance 
with its obligations and FSA recommendations at the time, which required it to conduct due 
diligence into the Store First investment to assess its suitability for holding within a SIPP.
9 June 2011  Options said it would accept the investment in its SIPP, having considered:
the brochure
the agreement for Grant of Sublease
the sublease
Companies House searches
a Compliance review (referring to a report produced by Enhanced Support Solutions 
(ESS) about the Store First investment in March 2011).
It has provided us with copies of these documents.
In the letter confirming its acceptance of the investment, Options noted:
The investor purchases a 250 year lease of a storage unit within a storage facility. 
The unit is then sublet to the management company, Store First, subject to an initial 
6 year term with 2 year break clauses.
The investor's interest can be sold/assigned at any time. The break clauses allow the 
investor to rent out the units individually without the services of the management 
company (but it insisted they use the management company).
There was no apparent established market for the investment.
The investment was potentially illiquid in that it was a direct property investment 
which may take time to sell. However, it could be sold providing a willing buyer can 
be found and was assignable so could be transferred in specie to beneficiaries.
It also said its acceptance was subject to a member declaration and indemnity being 
completed and signed by each member, and the appointment of a solicitor to act for the 
Trustees in respect of any purchase.
On 9 January 2012 Mr F, on behalf of JF, completed Options Non-regulated Introducer 
Profile. An introductory paragraph at the head of the form read:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out. We therefore request that you or 
the appropriate individual in your firm complete and sign this Profile questionnaire and our Terms of Business Agreement as part of our internal compliance 
requirements.
Mr F gave some basic company information such as its contact details (the firms address 
was given as one in Liverpool), gave only his own name in the space for Company 
Directors/Partners and said the firm had been trading for less than a year. He completed the 
rest of the form like so:
Product Information
What products does the firm promote/ 
distribute?Stakeholder pensions, SIPPs, Store First
Have these products been accepted by the 
Carey Pension Scheme?Yes
Have these products been accepted by any 
other SIPP providers if yes who?Yes
Have any of the products been declined by 
any pension scheme operators?No
Sales and Marketing Approach
How do the Firm and/or agents obtain 
clients?We purchase leads from various lead 
generation companies
Describe the sales process adopted by the 
Firm/its AgentsInformation
Describe the average profile of the type of 
clients you take on, i.e. Age, Income group, 
Employed/self-employed/unemployedWe have a very large profile. Average client 
is between 35-55, employed/self employed 
 pension is between £20,000 - 300,000
How much of your business is sold through 
pension arrangements?90% Pension
10% Non-pension
Where commission is taken, what is the 
typical commission structure?We do not pay commission
How else does the firm generate fees? From product
Training and Information
What training is provided to the agents 
within the Firm?None- No Agents
Specifically what Pensions Training is 
delivered to the agents of the Firm?-
How is business produced by the agents 
monitored?-
Specifically, what sort of service or support Administration and to facilitate a pension does the firm look for from a SIPP provider transfer
Legal and Regulatory Information
Does the Firm work with any FSA regulated 
company or adviser? If yes, provide details.Yes
Is the Firm a member of any Professional or 
Industry body? If yes, provide details.No
What measures are in place to ensure the 
Firm engage legal advice on the activities it 
carries out to ensure regulated activities are 
not carried out?Disclaimers are set in place for the client to 
sign agreeing that no advice has been 
given
Please provide details of the PII cover the 
Firm has in place, including the level of 
cover, the excess and any restrictions on 
cover.None
Have you/or the Firm been subject to any 
FSA supervisory visits, thematic reviews or 
any other regulatory action in the last two 
years? If yes, what was the outcome?No
Are you and/or the Firm subject to any 
ongoing FSA or other regulatory body 
review, action or censure? If so, please give 
details.No
How does the Firm demonstrate it is 
treating customers fairly?Strict Adherence to [illegible] 6 of [Treating 
Customers Fairly] guidelines
Has the Firm been subject to any 
complaints in the last five years?No
What are the Firms business objectives for 
the coming 12 months?To grow in size
What is the Firm looking to achieve with 
regards to a member directed pension 
scheme business?To help clients improve their current 
pension fund
Does the Firm have a Bribery Act Policy? No
By signing this form Mr F indemnified Options and also agreed to the following statement:
I also acknowledge and accept that Carey Pensions UK will undertake any enquiries 
about the firm and its Directors/Partners it feels appropriate.
The Non-regulated Introducer Profile appears to have been sent to Options via email on 
11 January 2012 by an individual Ill refer to as Mr W.Around this time Mr F also completed an Options form titled Independent Financial Adviser 
Introducer Profile (the IFA Profile). A handwritten note on the copy provided to us by 
Options reads:
9/1/12 Completed in error but can be used for additional info as necessary
On the IFA profile Mr F gave a second address for JF, one in Manchester. He also said the 
firm had been incorporated since September 2011 and named Mr W as both the firms 
Compliance Officer and Money Laundering Officer. The rest of the answers entered on the 
form, in summary, explained the following:
There were no IFAs in the firm, no advice was given; clients were given information 
and then made their own decisions or were referred to IFAs
JF had established 150 pensions in the last 12 months, and 90% of the firms overall 
business was related to pensions
All pension transfers were signed off by compliance, and Mr F monitored pension 
transfers for JF
A TVAS report was undertaken for all occupational transfers
It would be the clients decision to proceed on an execution only basis
The typical investment strategy used within a pension scheme would involve 
Commercial Property and Alternative Investments
What JF wanted from Options was efficiency and quick turnaround times.
Finally, in answer to the question, Is there a T & C in place for all advisers?, Mr F wrote:
We do not give advice, but we have disclaimers in place.
A handwritten note undated but included with the copies of these forms provided by Options 
noted the Manchester address to be Same as other business addresses. Whether this was 
noted in January 2012 or later when a second Non-regulated Introducer Profile was 
completed (August 2012  see below) is not clear.
Options has provided us with an undated document titled SIPP Guidance Notes 2012  For 
Jackson Francis. At the end of the document it reads, Produced by Carey Pensions as an 
aide memoire to non-advised introducers setting out guidelines to be followed. Ive 
reproduced what I consider to be the most relevant parts of this document below.
Points for Jackson Francis Properties to note.
SIPPs can receive transfers from any approved registered pension scheme, 
however if it is an occupational pension then independent advice must be given 
to an individual by a regulated financial adviser. If the individual has already 
purchased an annuity then this cannot be transferred.
It is generally considered that any value below £25,000 would be too small to 
justify a SIPP due to the cost of the SIPP fees.
The purpose of a SIPP is to provide retirement benefits and therefore putting the whole pension into one investment is not considered sensible in most cases.
Alternative Investments and Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes are 
being investigated by the FSA who are taking a big interest in the promoters and 
advisers of such schemes.
It would generally be considered wise for clients to receive independent advice 
before taking a decision to transfer their pension arrangement and Jackson 
Francis may want to consider aligning themselves with an IFA who could provide 
this for them.
Generally speaking it is questionable if individuals close to retirement should 
consider transfer of their pension arrangements and investment into an 
investment that is generally considered high risk. Therefore age 55 plus would be 
unwise to target unless there was a substantial transfer and the individuals were 
considered to be sophisticated investors.
Personally the ideal target for Jackson Francis would be age range 35 to 55 
years where there is already a reasonably large pot in a personal pension 
scheme of say £50k plus.
Avoid individuals on benefits and who have health problems.
Later in January 2012 Ms H exchanged emails with Mr W, who at this point appears to have 
been working for Harley Scott  using an email address ending harley-scott.co.uk  about 
pipeline cases; Mr W said he had 14 cases signed up so far just awaiting transfer packs 
and undertook to send Options a weekly update on the total number of applications.
An example weekly update was sent to Options by JF on 17 February 2012. It explained 
that five cases had been forwarded to Options in the post and provided notes on each one 
such as:
Letter of Authority sent to provider, awaiting reply with regard to transfer paperwork.
In March 2012 Options raised concerns with Mr W (copying in JF to the email) about the 
lack of information provided in the Application Forms. The email went on to say Options 
had received ID documents for some applicants, but no corresponding application forms. 
Mr F for JF undertook to rectify the problem of incomplete applications.
On 3 April 2012 Options emailed JF chasing previously requested (on 23 March 2012) 
compliance documentation including JFs latest set of accounts, certified passports for 
each Director, and a completed Terms of Business.
In May 2012 Options spoke with a regulated financial advice firm now working with JF  
Business S. Business S told Options it was involved in the process with JF by obtaining fact 
finds from clients, preparing TVAS and suitability reports, completing SIPP application 
packs, and sending documentation to clients for them to sign and confirm the transfer. Its 
involvement appears to have been intended for new applications going forwards.
The High Court Adams judgment refers to an internal Options email of 20 May 2012, 
referring to a conversation between Options and Store First about the levels of commission 
that were generally paid to brokers. Store First had told Options it believed another 
(unrelated to this case) introducing brokers commission to be 12%.An internal Options email in June 2012 providing an Update as of 31.5.2012 highlighted 
some concerns about JF. It read:
Jackson Francis  no TOB  no AML certified docs  no accounts filed. Question 
mark over emails ...
The emails about which Options had questions appear to have included an email from 
another consumer (not Mr S) in May 2012 which, in reply to Options confirming that it would 
be actioning transfers from the consumers existing pensions, read:
Hi, Are you still putting my money in the store company with 10% return?
On 10 June 2012 Options emailed JF (copying in Mr W) chasing the signed Terms of 
Business. The email said:
As previously requested, please could I ask for the attached Terms of Business be 
(sic) signed and returned as a matter of urgency for our Compliance Audit taking 
place this week. We require this signed document on file in order for us to be able to 
accept further business introduced from Jackson Francis.
An internal Options email dated 13 June 2012 highlighted that AML certified docs from the 
Directors and copy of accounts were also outstanding. The email closed:
This is not the first time of requesting so they may get it all together in one bundle 
this time to get us off their backs!
An internal Options email from 24 July 2012 explained that another SIPP provider had been 
in touch about JF and had told Options that JF had been reported to the FSA for giving 
advice  an allegation Jackson Francis deny. It said the other SIPP provider had ceased 
accepting business from JF until such time as they can provide confirmation from the FSA 
that they have a clean bill of health. The email went on, In light of this information we may 
wish to consider our position with accepting business from Jackson Francis 
On 1 August 2012 Options completed a company search on JF. This, alongside a World 
Check (a risk intelligence tool which allows subscribers to conduct background checks on 
businesses and individuals), revealed that Mr C had been appointed a Director of JF on 1 
January 2012 and had been a Director of Harley Scott Sales and Marketing Ltd since 21 
April 2011. On the same date an Options internal email was sent which read:
 During the course of compliance checks we ascertained that the ownership of 
Jackson Francis has changed. The company appears to be owned by a 
director/owner of Store First and there may be a potential for conflict of interest. Also 
as Jackson Francis are putting all clients into Store First the business may be driven 
solely by the investments  
I will also be telling Jackson Francis that we will process business received with 
applications dated prior to 1 August but will have to suspend any further business 
until the revised and corrected profile completed by the new owner is received and 
has been accepted through our business take on process.
On 7 August 2012 Mr C completed and signed a Non-Regulated Introducer Profile. He also 
signed an Options Non-regulated Introducer Terms of Business agreement (the TOB). This 
set out the method of business or operation that would apply. Essentially it set out that Options would accept introductions on an execution-only (non- advised) basis from JF. And 
that Carey was entitled to refuse any business without giving reasons. The TOB included the 
following:
Carey Pensions UK LLP will not accept Execution Only business from Introducers 
until a completed and signed Introducers Profile and Terms of Business are provided 
to them and accepted by them.
Under the heading Undertakings the first bullet point read:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
the [Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA] in relation to the SIPP  for 
the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to advice on the selection of The SIPP 
Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, taking benefits and HMRC rules; 
Mr C also provided a certified copy of his passport and a utility bill for the Manchester 
address previously given by Mr F in January 2012 as an address for JF.
15 August 2012  a meeting between Store First and Options took place. Items on the 
agenda included Rental Income Process/Delays, Sale Process/Delays and Agreed 
Actions. No further details (such as minutes) of this meeting have been provided.
17 August 2012  a member bulletin was sent to Options by an information service it 
subscribed to which included the following:
Storefirst Limited
We are aware of a web-based news article that mentions '[Mr Ts] firm faces tax 
investigation' and goes on to reference notes made within the February 2011 
accounts of Harley Scott Holdings. [The information service] has sought confirmation 
from [Mr T] on this and have been referred to [Store Firsts auditors] who [the 
information service] understands to be the Harley Scott accountants. [Store Firsts 
auditors] have supplied a letter to [the information service] to clarify the position 
regarding Store First, however as the letter is addressed to [the information service] 
we have been asked not to circulate the letter as [Store Firsts auditors] wish to 
control its distribution. [Store Firsts auditors] have agreed though to issue a similar 
letter addressed to individual SIPP operators/trustees upon request. We will leave it 
to our [the information service] clients to decide whether they require such a letter, 
however where a letter is required, the contact details for [Store Firsts auditors] are 
below and they are on notice they may receive requests from clients of [the 
information service].
17 August 2012  Options suspended its acceptance of the investment because of 
concerns about the administration and system and controls of the investment provider.
20 August 2012  Store Firsts auditors sent a letter to Options, which included the 
following:
We confirm that the tax enquiry referred to in the Harley Scott group of companies 
accounts to 28 February 2011 do not include either Group First Limited nor Store 
First Limited and furthermore, neither Group First Limited nor Store First Limited are 
currently under tax enquiry.In mid-September 2012 Mr Ss investment in Store First completed.
27 September 2012  Store First provided Options with a list of guaranteed rental and 
non- guaranteed rental investors. Options has said it requested this list because:
Following the monitoring of investors that held Store First, all of which we 
understood had applied for the investment as per the marketing material, the 
marketing material provided for a Title in a Leasehold property in the form of storage 
units with a 6 year leaseback and a guaranteed rental income. Despite the marketing 
material not providing any other option, we found that only a small proportion of Store 
First investors were receiving the rental income as expected and therefore we 
requested a list of all of our investors rental arrangements.
27 September 2012  Options lifted its suspension on accepting Store First. An internal 
Options email of that date from Ms H, sent to the Carey Group CEO and other senior 
members of staff, confirms this. The email from Ms H included the following:
My view is we can start again? As long as we have put the requisite processes and 
controls in place to be on their case should we not receive what we are expecting, 
also do we need to make our member declarations clearer re what option the clients 
have selected eg guaranteed and non-guaranteed to ensure there is no come back 
on us at a later date that they did not realise.
27 September 2012  A reply to the above email from the CEO of the wider Carey Group, 
which simply said I agree (to the suggestion in Ms Hs email).
5 April 2013  Options technical review committee decides it will accept no further Store 
First investments. The note of this meeting refers to an FSA letter dated 11 January 2012 
raising concerns about outstanding loans from Store First to Mr T. In previous submissions 
to us, Options has said:
CPUK [Options] took this decision because, by April 2013, it had received a number 
of queries and concerns from its customers and other sources which CPUK 
considered had not been satisfactorily resolved by Store First. CPUK wanted to act 
quickly to protect its customers and therefore ceased administering investments into 
Store First.
More recent events relating to Jackson Francis and its Director
In December 2015 the BBC reported that sales company Jackson Francis Ltd was paid 
through an intermediary by Store First to cold call people with "dormant pensions". The 
intermediary was Transeuro Worldwide Holdings Ltd.
In 2016 Mr C was disqualified from being a Company Director for conduct while acting for 
another firm  Sycamore Crown Ltd. Sycamore Crown Ltd, another introducer company 
which operated between 2012 and 2014, was investigated by The Insolvency Service and 
was found to have misled clients over their expertise, offering guaranteed levels of returns 
which incentivised customers to agree to pension transfers. Sycamore Crown Ltd was, as I 
understand matters, also funded by Transeuro and clients funds were invested in storage 
units.
Although these events  the BBCs report, The Insolvency Services investigation and Mr Cs 
disqualification  post-date the events complained about, Ive included reference to them to 
illustrate what later became known about JF and its Director. I think they provide an indication of what could have been revealed about the nature of JF, its practices and 
business objectives, through checks made to establish it was an appropriate introducer to 
deal with and through the monitoring of the business introduced in 2012.
Mr Ss complaint
Mr S complained to Options in May 2018. In summary, he said Options had failed to 
undertake sufficient due diligence and had therefore accepted an introduction from JF, an 
unauthorised firm, when it should have refused this business. He complained that Options 
hadnt conducted its business with the required level of skill and care, and that it hadnt paid 
regard to his interests or treated him fairly. Furthermore, he said he was entitled to a remedy 
by virtue of s.27 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA. He said he wanted 
to be returned to the position he would have been in had he not transferred away from his 
existing personal pension. He said he would not have made the transfer and investment if 
the risks had been made clear to him.
Options responded to Mr Ss complaint in July 2018, rejecting it. It said, in summary:
Options provides execution only (i.e. non-advised) SIPP administration services.
Options cannot comment on Mr Ss interactions with JF  JF are not advisers and Mr 
S should have sought independent financial advice as recommended by Options.
Options is not permitted to provide any advice to members in relation to the 
establishment of a SIPP, the underlying investment(s), performance or transfers, nor 
permitted to assess or comment on suitability for a members circumstances.
Options followed Mr Ss specific investment instructions and is not responsible for Mr 
Ss investment decisions.
The documentation Mr S read and signed encouraged him to obtain independent 
advice, from a suitably qualified adviser.
By signing the documentation Mr S confirmed he understood Options was acting on 
an execution only basis, and that he understood the risks of the investment.
Options is not responsible if Mr S chose not to heed those warnings, which were 
spelt out in plain, simple English. There is no basis on which to suggest Options has 
not treated Mr S fairly.
Options has not acted inappropriately in dealing with JF  Options is not restricted to 
dealing only with regulated brokers.
Options due diligence did not indicate that there was any reason not to accept the 
investment.
Options has no control over the performance of the Store First investment.
Unhappy with Options response, Mr S brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Options submissions
Options told us, in summary:Options does not (and is not permitted to) provide any advice to clients in relation to 
the establishment of a SIPP, transfers in or the underlying investments, nor does it 
comment in any way on the suitability of a SIPP, the transfers in and investments, for 
an individuals circumstances. Options did not advise, nor purport to advise Mr S.
Options administrator status and execution only role was made very clear in 
communications with Mr S, the documentation issued to him, and the paperwork he 
read, signed and agreed to.
Mr S was categorised as a direct client  Options never suggested that JF were 
financial advisers or were authorised to provide advice, as indeed they were not.
Options made Mr S aware that he should seek independent financial advice.
Options acted on Mr Ss instructions to establish the SIPP, request the transfers in 
and specifically to make the Store First Investment.
By signing and dating the Application Form and Member Declaration, Mr S confirmed 
to Options that he had read and fully understood all documentation regarding his 
Options SIPP and the Store First investment. Mr S also confirmed that he was aware 
that the Store First investment was high risk and/or speculative and that he wished to 
proceed with the Store First investment with this knowledge.
Options carried out an internal investment review and due diligence on Store First 
and concluded that the investment was suitable to be held within a UK pension 
scheme. This due diligence included Options Investment Committee reviewing the 
legal paperwork, product information, company background checks and also 
obtaining an independent report from an external third party compliance entity, as a 
second layer of review. This due diligence did not indicate that there was any reason 
not to accept the investment.
Options undertook due diligence on JF and this due diligence did not reveal any 
reason for Options not to accept introductions from JF at the time of Mr Ss 
investment.
Overall, Options said it had acted properly in all of its dealings with Mr S and was not liable 
to him for his loss.
Our Investigators view
Our Investigator considered that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. In summary, he:
Acknowledged Options was not required, and not able, to give advice, and was not 
responsible for ensuring the investment was suitable for Mr S.
Said it was Options responsibility to conduct appropriate due diligence checks on the 
introducer - Jackson Francis - and the investment in Store First, and then to use the 
knowledge gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject Mr Ss 
application.
Explained that due diligence involved more than simply checking that the investment 
was SIPP-able under HMRC rules.
Found that Options failed to take all the actions that were required of it in order to comply with its regulatory obligations and good practice, and also failed to draw 
reasonable conclusions from the information it did have available about accepting the 
investment.
Said the third-party report, relied on by Options, didnt amount to adequate 
independent due diligence on the investment, but did identify a number of issues 
which Options ought to have given consideration to before deciding to accept the 
investment.
Said Options ought to have known that: there was no investor protection associated 
with this investment; it was not clear how the investment could be independently 
valued; and the investment was likely to be high risk as it was unregulated and, 
therefore, only suitable for a small part of the portfolio of an experienced investor.
Found that it was good practice of Options to have obtained copies of Store Firsts 
marketing material, but that Options hadnt carefully considered what the material 
said  an investment purporting to give a high return with minimal risk, without much 
supporting evidence, should have given Options cause for concern.
Said there is no evidence Options questioned Store Firsts claims or attempted to 
have these independently verified.
Concluded that if Options had attempted to verify the claims made, it is fair to say it 
should have drawn similar conclusions to those later drawn by SSA UK (on the basis 
of a report by Deloitte LLP and the Insolvency Service). Namely, that there was a 
significant risk and that investors were being misled.
Concluded theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate that Options carried out 
adequate due diligence before accepting introductions from JF.
Acknowledged that Options was permitted to accept introductions from unregulated 
entities, but should have been aware of the risks of consumer detriment, which are 
increased in these instances.
Said Mr S had signed the indemnity without a full understanding of what high risk 
meant because of the guarantees given by Store First, and Options ought to have 
had concerns in accepting Mr Ss application even though he had signed an 
indemnity.
Said asking Mr S to sign an indemnity absolving Options of its regulatory 
responsibility, and relying on this, when it ought to have known that in accepting the 
investment it could lead to consumer detriment, was not the fair and reasonable thing 
to do.
Concluded that if Options had not accepted Mr Ss application and facilitated his 
investment in Store First, and explained this to Mr S, he would not have gone ahead 
and would not have suffered the losses that he did.
Said theres no evidence Mr S received any cash incentives for undertaking these 
transactions.
Said Options had not treated Mr S fairly in accepting his application and did not 
comply with good industry practice, or act with due skill, care, and diligence.Finally, our investigator set out how Options should compensate Mr S for his losses and 
return him to the position, so far as possible, he would now be in but for Options failure to 
carry out adequate due diligence checks, and draw adequate conclusions, before accepting 
his SIPP application from JF. He added that Options should also pay Mr S £500 to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failings.
Options told us it does not wish to make any further submissions and maintains it has acted 
properly and to the standard expected of it at all times. Notwithstanding this position, Options 
has said it is willing to offer the complainant redress in line with the sums awarded in the 
Investigators view. It has also confirmed that no further fees will be charged to Mr Ss SIPP 
account. However, without further detail of the offer, Mr S does not consider the matter yet 
settled.
So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld. My reasoning was similar to the Investigators, but I said more about 
Options acceptance of Mr Ss SIPP application from the unregulated introducer, JF.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to confirm that hed received an offer from 
Options which hed not yet accepted. Options told us its in the process of calculating its offer 
to Mr S. Neither party made any further submissions.
As I have not received any further submissions from either party and have not been 
persuaded to depart from my provisional findings, I have repeated my provisional findings 
below, as my final decision, and have not therefore included any further detail of them in this 
background summary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the Investigator did, I uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Relevant considerations
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind Ill start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant considerations 
to deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The PrinciplesIn my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 FSMA and the approach an ombudsman is 
to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. So, the Principles 
are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific circumstances of 
this complaint.
The Adams court cases and COBS 2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court 
refused Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal judgment.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And, I am of the view they do not. In the High Court case, HHJ 
Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not of direct relevance to the case before him was 
because the specific regulatory provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was 
asked to consider are not those which have formed the basis of the claimants case before 
me.
Likewise, the Principles were not considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the Adams 
judgments say nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.
Although the Court of Appeal ultimately overturned HHJ Dights judgment, it rejected that 
part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the 
basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found 
in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so much 
represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, 
but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.I note that HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would inform the extent of the 
duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
The facts in Mr Ss case are very different from those in Adams. There are also significant 
differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in 
Mr Ss complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal 
judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between the 
parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened after 
the contract was entered into. In Mr Ss complaint, I am considering whether Options ought 
to have identified that the introductions from JF involved a risk of consumer detriment and, if 
so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from JF prior to entering into a 
contract with Mr S.
On this point, I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
both Adams cases. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Options was not obliged  and not able 
 to give advice to Mr S on the suitability of its SIPP or the Store First investment for him 
personally. But I am satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses.
Sections 27/28 of FSMA
The Court of Appeal overturned the High Court judgment on the basis of the claim pursuant 
to section 27 of FSMA. Section 27 of FSMA provides that an agreement between an 
authorised person and another party, which is otherwise properly made in the course of the 
authorised persons regulated activity, is unenforceable as against that other party if it is 
made:
in consequence of something said or done by another person (the third party) in 
the course of a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the 
general prohibition.
Section 27(2) provides that the other party is entitled to recover:
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; and
(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with it.
Section 28(3) of FSMA provides that:If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case, it 
may allow 
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
The General Prohibition is set out in section 19 of FSMA. It stipulates that:
No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do 
so, unless he is 
a) an authorised person; or
b) an exempt person.
In Adams, the Court of Appeal concluded that the unauthorised introducer of the SIPP had 
carried out activities in contravention of the General Prohibition, and so section 27 of FSMA 
applied. It further concluded that it would not be just and equitable to nonetheless allow the 
agreement to be enforced (or the money retained) under the discretion afforded to it by 
section 28(3) of FSMA.
At paragraph 115 of the judgment the Court set out five reasons for reaching this conclusion. 
The first two of these were:
i) A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers 
from their own folly.
ii) While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from 
unregulated sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated 
with doing so onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to 
enforce agreements and being required to return money and other property and to 
pay compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the general prohibition;
The other three reasons, in summary, were:
The volume and nature of business being introduced by the introducer was such as 
to put Options on notice of the danger that the introducer was recommending clients 
to invest in the investments and set up Options SIPPs to that end. There was thus 
reason for Options to be concerned about the possibility of the introducer advising on 
investments within the meaning of article 53 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO).
Options was aware that: contrary to what the introducer had previously said, it was 
receiving high commission from the investment provider, there were indications that 
the introducer was offering consumers cashback and one of those running the 
introducer was subject to a FCA warning notice.The investment did not proceed until after the time by which Options had reasons for 
concern and so it was open to Options to decline the investment, or at least explore 
the position with Mr Adams, but it did not do so.
I shall address later in this decision how I consider S27 FSMA to be an additional and 
alternative ground upon which this complaint should be upheld. But before that, Ill address 
below what due diligence I think Options ought to have undertaken, what it ought to have 
concluded from what it knew, or ought to have known, about JF and what this should have 
meant for Mr Ss proposed pension transfer and investment.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and SIPP 
operatorsExamples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for unauthorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment 
advice given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of 
the SIPP business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from nonregulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequentlyEnsuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman.
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Ss 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide were not good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration 
of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow that those publications are irrelevant to my 
consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, 
the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr S. It is accepted Options was not required to give advice 
to Mr S, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications do not alter the meaning of, 
or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular 
introducer is appropriate to deal with.
It is clear from Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile, that it understood and accepted 
its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on Jackson 
Francis. The introductory paragraph at the head of the form read:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out. We therefore request that you or 
the appropriate individual in your firm complete and sign this Profile questionnaire 
and our Terms of Business Agreement as part of our internal compliance 
requirements.
I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Options 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with the 
Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Options own understanding. I note in 
submissions on other complaints Options has told us that adherence to TCF is something it 
had in mind when considering its approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of 
whether it should accept business from a particular introducer.
All in all, I am satisfied that, in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options should have 
carried out due diligence on JF and the Store First investment which was consistent with 
good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Options 
should have used the knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept 
or reject a referral of business or particular investment.
Should Options have accepted business from Jackson Francis?
Although Options has said it undertook due diligence on JF and that it had no reason not to 
accept introductions from JF in 2012, at the time of Mr Ss investment, I have not seen any 
evidence that Options undertook sufficient due diligence on JF or that it drew reasonable 
conclusions from the information it did have available to it. JF was an unregulated, small 
business with a limited track record  confirmed to Options by JF as less than a year. Yet I 
have not seen evidence that it undertook the checks Options itself had identified should be 
carried out.
Options asked JF to complete a Non-Regulated Introducer Profile in or around January 
2012, but I cant see that Options then used the answers given on that form, or on the 
erroneously completed additional IFA Profile, to make any further enquiries about JF. I have 
not seen that it undertook any further checks into JFs Directors or sought separate 
information about its operation. It seems to have simply started accepting introductions from 
JF before satisfying itself that doing so would be in keeping with its responsibility to treat 
customers fairly. But there were a number of further enquiries that I think should have been made about JF, and the information that Im satisfied those further enquiries would have 
revealed, ought to have caused Options to be concerned about doing business with JF.
Identifying connected parties
On the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile completed by Mr F, he gave his own name in the 
space for Company Directors/Partners. Mr F was indeed a Director of JF but according to 
the Companies House Register he resigned from this role on 31 December 2011, just three 
months after the business was incorporated, and before he completed the Non-Regulated 
Introducer Profile and IFA Profile for Options. Mr C became the sole Director of JF on 
1 January 2012.
Mr C was closely connected to the Store First investment (HHJ Dight in Adams described 
Mr C as Network Sales Director, of Harley Scott Holdings Limited), and this was 
information I think Options knew in January 2012 because it was Mr C whod first 
approached Options about Store First; he was the author of the email Ive referred to above 
in the background, sent to Options on 3 May 2011, which led to Options agreeing to accept 
the Store First investment.
When Options received the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile on 11 January 2012 I 
acknowledge that this detail about the change in Directorship hadnt yet been updated on the 
Companies House Register  the filings notifying of Mr Cs appointment were not made until 
31 January 2012. So, that connection between JF and Store First might not have been 
immediately apparent to anyone simply looking at the entry for Jackson Francis Limited on 
or around 11 January 2012 (when Options received the completed forms). However, had 
Options checked Mr Fs entry, which I think would have been a reasonable thing to do, 
theyd have been able to see that he held another Directorship for a business Ill call 
Business U and his co-Director in that business, since its incorporation in February 2011, 
was Mr C. So, Mr Fs business connections led back to Store Firsts promoter. I think this is 
something Options ought to have picked up on.
The other piece of information, indicating a connection between the introducer and the 
investment, which would have been knowable from a check of the Jackson Francis Limited 
entry on the Companies House Register in January 2012, and also from Mr Fs entry, is that 
JF and Mr F used an address, in Manchester, that had also been used by Harley Scott 
Holdings Limited, the Store First promoter. Mr F also gave this Manchester address on some 
of the forms he completed for Options. Ive noted above that within the papers provided by 
Options there is a handwritten note about the Manchester address which reads Same as 
other business addresses. Its possible that this wasnt noted until August 2012 when Mr C 
provided a second Non-Regulated Introducer Profile, but I see no reason why this shouldnt 
have been noted during due diligence checks and queried in January 2012 before Options 
started to accept JFs introductions.
A further connection with the Store First investment was also ascertainable from the 
information initially supplied by Mr F to Options in January 2012. On the IFA Profile that he 
completed, Mr F told Options that JFs Compliance Officer and Money Laundering Officer 
was a Mr W. It was Mr W who sent Options the completed Non-Regulated Introducer 
Profile for JF on 11 January 2012 using a personal email address. But by 24 January 2012 
Mr W was communicating with Options CEO, Ms H, about pipeline cases using an email 
address that strongly indicates Mr W was also working for Harley Scott.
So, shortly after receiving the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile from Mr F in January 2012 I 
think Options ought to have been aware that JF was closely linked to Harley Scott, and by 
extension, to Store First, through several connections. And I think, acting fairly and reasonably and adhering to its obligation to treat customers fairly, Options ought to have 
been concerned that these connections between the parties involved meant a significant 
conflict of interests existed. JF was so closely connected to the promotor of Store First, 
Harley Scott, that the risk it too would promote the investment and encourage consumers to 
transfer their pensions into this investment should have been obvious. Particularly when the 
business introduced by JF was exclusively destined for investment in Store First.
When Options did, belatedly, spot that JF was owned by a director/owner of Store First 
(Mr C) in August 2012, it realised that there may be a conflict here and that the business 
introduced by JF may be driven solely by the investments. But thats a realisation that 
should, I think, have dawned on Options much earlier and caused it to think twice about 
accepting introductions from JF long before it received and accepted Mr Ss application in 
May 2012.
Commission
Another issue that I think Options should, acting fairly and reasonably, have made further 
enquiries about at the outset of its relationship with JF relates to JFs source of funding. The 
Non-Regulated Introducer Profile completed by Mr F included the following questions:
Where commission is taken, what is the typical commission structure?
How else does the firm generate fees?
The respective answers given were:
We do not pay commission
From product
I dont think Options ought to have accepted these answers as sufficient. The very purpose 
of this questionnaire was to provide Options with insight into JF, but these two answers 
are, at best, incomplete. The first is answering a different question to that asked (not, what 
does JF get paid, but what does JF pay), and the second provides no detail at all. And so, I 
think Options ought to have asked more about JFs funding. Had it done so I think it more 
likely than not Options would have discovered that JF was receiving, as Options later, in May 
2012, discovered another introducing broker was receiving, a high level of commission from 
Store First.
Options ought to have been concerned that the commission JF was receiving from Store 
First, which was perhaps as high as 12%, would incentivise JF to put its own interests ahead 
of the interests of consumers, including Mr S. And, of course, commission at this level would 
have been very likely to motivate JF to encourage consumers to proceed with transferring 
their pension, through a positive recommendation. Options should therefore have been alive 
to the risk that, to achieve its commission, JF would stray into the activity of advising 
consumers to transfer their pension funds into a SIPP and invest in Store First, despite not 
being qualified or regulated to do so. This risk ought to have been obvious from the outset, 
particularly when JFs commission is considered alongside the connections Options ought to 
have identified as existing between the parties and giving rise to a potential conflict of 
interests.
Another point to make about the level of commission Options knew, from May 2012, Store 
First to be paying at least one introducer is that this information ought, in my view, to have 
prompted Options to ask how Store First was funding such levels of commission alongside guaranteed income payments and buy backs. The lack of clarity around how this was to be 
achieved should have raised questions about the Store First investment and its promotion to 
pension holders by an unregulated business. Ill say more about what Options ought to have 
concluded about the Store First investment below.
Accounts and other compliance documentation
As part of its compliance procedures I note that Options made repeated requests for JFs 
accounts. It seems to have initially requested these on 23 March 2012, and chased JF for 
these on 3 April 2012. But, by 13 June 2012, these remained outstanding. Indeed, Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest that these were ever forthcoming. Nevertheless, Options started 
accepting introductions from JF having not received the accounts  seemingly in breach of 
its own procedures.
JFs reluctance to provide this basic information should have been a further factor which 
ought to have led Options to question whether it should enter or continue a relationship with 
JF. Particularly when the answers Mr F had given on the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile 
had been insufficient to establish how JF was funded. Options was missing information 
which might be critical to the decision about whether to enter into business with JF, such as, 
for example, information about the volume of business it was doing, its resources to carry on 
that business, and the sources of those resources.
The failure of JF to submit its accounts to Options for scrutiny also calls into question JFs 
ability to organise its affairs and calls into question the competence and motivations of JF. It 
is notable that Options accepted and set up Mr Ss SIPP when it was still waiting for this 
information from JF.
In addition to JFs latest set of accounts, Options had also asked JF for A certified 
passport copy for each of the main directors/principles on 23 March 2012. But Ive seen no 
evidence that Options ever received any identity documentation for Mr F, and it seems 
Mr Cs certified passport wasnt received until August 2012, long after Options had started 
accepting business from JF.
Acting fairly and reasonably, I think Options should have met its own standards and should 
have checked JFs accounts, and its directors passport/identity, at the outset before 
accepting any business from it. Instead, Options seems not to have considered the 
additional risks involved in accepting business from non-regulated introducers, and simply 
proceeded without more than an inadequately completed Non-Regulated Introducer Profile 
from JFs departing Director.
I say inadequately completed because in addition to the incomplete answers given in relation 
to JFs funding (noted above), I consider that Mr Fs answers to the following were also 
incomplete or lacked sufficient detail:
Have these products been accepted by any other SIPP providers if yes who?
Yes
Describe the sales process adopted by the Firm/its Agents Information
Does the Firm work with any FSA regulated company or adviser? If yes, provide 
details. Yes
With these answers Mr F provided no detail about which other SIPP providers were 
accepting the Store First investment, no detail of the sales process it would adopt and no details of any FSA regulated company or adviser JF purported to work with. I note that it 
wasnt until May 2012 that Options had any details of Business Ss involvement and even 
then, its involvement (with preparing TVAS and suitability reports, completing SIPP 
application packs, and sending documentation to clients for them to sign and confirm the 
transfer) appears to have been intended for new applications going forwards.
Overall, I dont think Options systems and controls were robust enough and they didnt 
gather sufficient information about JF to safeguard their clients interests.
Terms of Business
Another important piece of documentation that Options asked JF to complete was a Terms 
of Business form. Again, this is something that Options asked for early in the relationship 
with JF (March 2012), but which Options was still chasing in June 2012. Options appears to 
have understood the importance of JF agreeing to the TOB  it was through this document 
that JF would undertake to Options not to provide advice as defined by FSMA. Options even 
said to JF in its email of 10 June 2012:
We require this signed document on file in order for us to be able to accept further 
business introduced from Jackson Francis.
And yet, Options accepted business from JF between February 2012 and August 2012 
without this TOB being in place.
I think that going ahead with accepting business when JF had not yet complied with Options 
own requirements and not yet agreed to the TOB, was unreasonable of Options. JFs failure 
to return this important document, alongside its failure to provide the compliance 
documentation Ive mentioned above, ought to have caused Options to be concerned about 
the integrity of JF. JF was either a business that couldnt keep on top of its important 
administration tasks or it was avoiding making the undertakings within this document, or 
both. And this, along with the other issues Ive highlighted above, should have caused 
Options to think twice about accepting JFs business; consider that JF posed a risk of 
causing consumer detriment; and decline to accept its business.
SIPP Guidance Notes
As noted in the background above, Options appears to have produced some internal 
guidance notes for JF to refer to when introducing SIPP applicants to Options. And I think its 
fair to assume that these guidelines were produced by Options in an effort to ensure the 
quality of the SIPP business it administered.
The document explained, amongst other things, that putting the whole pension into one 
investment is not considered sensible in most cases, and that the ideal target  would be 
age range 35 to 55 years where there is already a reasonably large pot in a personal 
pension scheme of say £50k. It also contained a word of caution about the FSAs interest in 
alternative investments and their promoters, and it said:
It would generally be considered wise for clients to receive independent advice 
before taking a decision to transfer their pension arrangement
However, Options accepted Mr Ss application apparently without concern that it didnt follow 
its own guidelines in several ways  Mr Ss total pension transfer was under £50,000 and it 
was exclusively invested in an investment which was described by Options own indemnity 
as alternative and high risk or speculative. Options had also seen no evidence that Mr S had received independent advice from someone qualified and regulated to give pension transfers 
advice. I think accepting Mr Ss application when it didnt meet Options own guidelines in 
these ways was not the fair and reasonable thing for Options to do in the circumstances.
The activities that JF undertook
Advice
Options has told us that Jackson Francis werent advisers, they didnt recommend 
investments. Indeed, JF told Options We do not give advice and said the sales process 
adopted by the firm consisted of Information (no further detail of the sales process was 
given). But I dont think thats an accurate reflection of the part JF played in Mr Ss decision 
to transfer his pensions to an Options SIPP and invest in Store First. I think the evidence 
demonstrates that JF proactively contacted Mr S and positively recommended/advised him 
that the Store First investment would be a more lucrative pension investment than his 
existing arrangements. I think it more likely than not JF provided advice to Mr S on the merits 
of transferring his pension to the SIPP and investing in Store First.
I think that if Options had made any further enquiries in January 2012, as it should have 
done, about how JF was operating, it would have identified, as another SIPP operator 
suspected and told Options in July 2012, that JF was advising clients.
Mr S considered himself to have been advised by JF at the time  the indemnity he signed 
included the following statement which, in the absence of any other firm and in the context of 
other statements about Options within the same indemnity, can only relate to JF:
I confirm that I have read and understand the documentation regarding this 
investment and have taken my own advice, including financial, investment and tax 
advice.
So, I think if Options had asked Mr S or customers like him about their experience of JF, 
early in 2012, theyd have described JF as giving them advice.
JF appears to have suggested to Options that it would be sending Options a pipeline of 
cases, with some regularity (promising a weekly update on the total number of applications). 
Options should have been aware that it is not usual for pension transfers to happen without 
the consumer receiving advice or a recommendation. And, as it was clearly anticipated that 
all consumers would be transferring to an Options SIPP and then investing in Store First, 
Options should have been thinking about how that pipeline could be achieved without those 
consumers being advised to take this course of action. It was not at all clear how JF would 
be bringing these applications about without conducting any regulated activities.
The information JF provided on the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile in answer to the 
question, What measures are in place to ensure the Firm engage legal advice on the 
activities it carries out to ensure regulated activities are not carried out? should also, I think, 
have given Options cause for concern. In answer to this question JF did not explain how it 
would ensure it did not carry out regulated activities but rather explained what defence it 
would use if accused of such  a disclaimer signed by the client. I dont think Options ought 
to have been satisfied with this response.
The FSA had set out in 2009 that good practice of a SIPP operator would include identifying 
instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers taking responsibility for their 
investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of 
such business. But Ive seen no evidence that the routine use of such a disclaimer caused Options the concern it should have done bearing in mind the esoteric nature of the 
investment it was intended JFs clients would be putting their pensions into.
Acting fairly and reasonably, and bearing in mind its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, I think Options should have identified the risk that JF, an unregulated business, 
would be giving consumers advice, particularly given the connections JF had with the 
investment and the apparent conflict of interests. And having identified this obvious risk, 
Options should have rejected JFs business, including Mr Ss application.
Arranging
Once hed made the decision to transfer his pensions JF did not leave Mr S to deal with 
Options directly but rather remained involved in the arrangements which led to the opening 
of the SIPP and the investment in Store First. JF provided Options with his paperwork, and 
ensured Mr S had signed the indemnity.
Its clear from the emails JF sent Options about pipeline cases that it was also involved 
generally in sending letters of authority to consumers existing pension providers and 
receiving transfer paperwork to send on to Options. And when Options raised the issue of 
application forms lacking information, JF undertook to rectify that.
JF was involved in arranging the transfer out of Mr Ss existing pension to the SIPP, the 
setting up of the SIPP and in arranging the Store First investment.
I think Options ought to have been aware of this. The extent of JFs involvement was clear 
from its actions and communications with Options.
Regulated activities in the UK
Under Article 53 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in 
his capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or 
agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment 
which is a security or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite such an investment.
Under Article 25 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, 
sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security,(b) a relevant investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article, is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling 
within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a 
specified kind of activity
There is an exclusion under Article 26 of arrangements which do not or would not bring 
about the transaction to which the arrangements relate.
Rights under a personal pension scheme are a security.
As set out above, Im satisfied JF gave advice and made arrangements. The activities it 
undertook clearly meet the above definitions. The arrangements it made brought about the 
transactions (the transfer out of Mr Ss existing pension into the SIPP, and the making of the 
Store First investment). The arrangements had that direct effect. And advice was given on 
the merits of transferring out of Mr Ss existing scheme to the SIPP in order to invest in Store 
First.
So, Im satisfied the activities undertaken by JF in the UK in this case were regulated 
activities. JF therefore carried out regulated activities without authorisation. And I think the 
fact JF was carrying out regulated activities without authorisation was enough reason, in 
itself, for Options to have concluded that it shouldnt accept applications from JF.
This was a significant red flag. The fact JF was carrying out regulated activities without 
authorisation calls into question its integrity, motivation and competency. I think the only fair 
and reasonable conclusion Options could reach in these circumstances was that it should 
not accept business from JF. And I think this alone is sufficient reason to conclude it is fair 
and reasonable to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Should Options have accepted the Store First investment into its SIPPs?
As Ive explained above, Options should neither have accepted Mr Ss introduction from JF 
nor proceeded with his application to make the Store First investment. I think it is fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint on that basis alone. Nevertheless, given the 
submissions that Options has previously made about its due diligence on Store First, and 
the regulatory obligations and good industry practice I have set out above, Ive also 
considered the due diligence that Options carried out on the investment. I have taken the 
same approach to considering this as I did to considering the due diligence undertaken on 
JF.
The actions Options took are set out in detail in the background sections above, so I will 
not repeat them here. I think some of the actions Options took were in-line with good 
practice at the relevant time when carrying out its due diligence on Store First. However, I 
think Options failed to take all the actions that were required of it in order to comply with its 
regulatory obligations and good practice. And, based on what it knew, it failed to draw a 
reasonable conclusion on accepting the investment. I do not think Options actions went far 
enough, and I think it ought to have carried out further enquiries in the light of what was 
revealed by the due diligence it did carry out.
I note the company searches were carried out using a service called Company Searches. This was good practice but, consistent with its regulatory obligations, Options 
should not only have carried out the searches but also given careful consideration to 
what they revealed.
The searches were carried out on the promoter of Store First, Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, 
not Store First itself  perhaps because at that point Store First was just being established. 
The result of the searches reported that Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had a website address 
dylanharvey.com, and had changed its name three times having previously been called 
Dylan Harvey Group Ltd, Dylan Harvey Ltd and Grangemate Ltd. The report also said 
County Court Judgments (CCJs) were recorded against the business and that auditors 
had made adverse comments in the previous three reporting years.
Its not clear what consideration Options gave to this report, after it obtained it. But, in 
my view, it would have been fair and reasonable for it to have conducted some further 
basic searches, given there were factors in the report which ought to have been of 
concern  namely the adverse comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and 
the fact the business had recently changed its name.
Had such basic searches been completed I think it likely they would have revealed that, at 
the time, Dylan Harvey and one of its directors, Mr T, were the subject of national press 
reports, online petitions and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed property 
investment. It was reported that hundreds of investors had invested money in a scheme to 
develop flats, but the flats had not been built and the investors had been unable to recover 
their money. Those investors were behind the online petitions and proposed legal action.
Options says it obtained copies of Store Firsts marketing material. It has provided us 
with copies of this. Again, I accept that potentially this was good practice. In order to 
correctly understand the nature of the investment, I think its fair and reasonable to say 
Options should have reviewed how Store First was marketed to investors  particularly 
as it was proceeding on the basis that these investments were being made by 
consumers without regulated advice being provided. Clearly Options thought it was 
important to look at this material at the time too.
But, again, consistent with its regulatory obligations, Options should not only have 
obtained the material but should have given careful consideration to it.
The marketing material included the following prominent statements:
You will receive guaranteed returns from a 6 year lease already in place upon 
completion, making this a high yielding, hassle-free investment which has been 
specifically designed to meet the needs of todays astute investor.
You will receive a 6 year lease in place upon completion. The lease produces an 
excellent return of 8% (guaranteed for the first 2 years) rising to over 12% in years 
5 and 6. The lease contains upward-only rental reviews and break clauses for both 
parties every two years.
Guaranteed exit route option.
It then goes on to set out in a table the returns payable in years 1&2, 3&4 and 5&6 at 
8%, 10% and 12%. In the question and answer section the following is included:
What rental income can I expect?Storepod rental starts at £17 per Sq/Ft per annum. The 6 year tenancy/Iease in 
place on your Storepod has fixed upwards only rental reviews and break clauses 
(for both parties) every 2 years. This produces an 8% yield on your investment 
within the first two years, this then is predicted to rise to over 10% return in years 
3&4 and then surpass 12% return in years 5&6.
Can I easily re-sell my Storepod?
Yes. You can re-sell your Storepod at any time and selling your Storepod couldnt 
be simpler. Store First Ltd can market your Storepod upon your request. We 
believe that because Storepods are so competitively priced when new, they will 
make a very attractive sale proposition in the future. We also expect that many 
tenants will wish to purchase the Storepod they are using. For example, other self 
storage PLCs usually achieve rent of between £20.00 - £25.00 per square foot. 
Our Storepods are costed at a rent of only £17.00 per square foot; once higher 
rents are achieved the capital value of the Storepod will increase.
Guaranteed exit route?
In year 5, investors have the option to enter the guaranteed buy-back scheme. In 
this scheme, Store First Management Ltd will guarantee to buy the Storepod back 
off the investor for the original price paid within the next 5 years. This is a unique 
offer in the market place and we are happy to be able to offer this exit route to our 
investors.
Most investors are driven to keep the property investment they have purchased and 
carry on receiving the rental yield produced for years to come, this means only a 
very limited number of Storepods per centre will ever come onto the resale market, 
this creates a high sale value and demand for the future.
The material says the figures shown are for illustration purposes. But it does not contain 
any type of risk warning, or illustrations of any other returns. No explanation of the 
guarantees was offered, or the basis of the projected returns  other than Store Firsts 
own confidence in its business model and the self-storage marketplace.
I note Options considered a report by Enhanced Support Solutions (ESS). In my view this 
was of limited value. It was cursory, and based only on some of the material Options had 
regard to i.e. the marketing material and lease documents. As a result, I think Options 
should have found it difficult to reconcile the view reached by ESS with the information 
available to it. The report said:
The following parties are involved in this investment:
Seller of the sub-lease: Store First Limited
UK Promoter: Harley Scott Holdings Limited
No adverse history has been found affecting these parties. A CCJ was issued 
against the promoter of the scheme however we understand this arose from a 
disputed invoice which is in the course of being settled. This in any event does not 
directly impact on the investment.
This conclusion is inconsistent with the result of Options own company searches. The report also makes no comment on the obvious issues with the marketing material. So, I 
dont think Options could have taken any comfort from the ESS report or attached any 
significant weight to it.
The failure of the previous scheme which Dylan Harley/Harley Scott Holdings had been 
involved in may have been entirely down to market forces. But I think the fact that the 
company which had approached Options about Store First  and on which Options had 
conducted searches  had recently been involved in a property investment scheme 
which had failed, had recently changed its name, and had been subject to a number of 
adverse comments in succession, following audit, ought to have given Options significant 
cause for concern. Particularly when it considered the marketing material for Store First.
In my view there were a number of things about the marketing material which ought to have 
given Options significant cause for concern and to have led it to have drawn similar 
conclusions to those later drawn by SSA UK (on the basis of a report by Deloitte LLP) and 
the Insolvency Service. Namely, that there was a significant risk that potential investors 
were being misled.
I think, as it had regard to this material, Options could not overlook the fact that Store First 
appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to provide high and 
rising returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high level of liquidity together 
with a strong prospect of a capital return  despite the fact that there was no investor 
protection associated with the investment and that, in Options own words, there was no 
apparent established market for the investment and the investment was potentially illiquid.
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Options couldnt be certain that 
the investment operated as claimed. Options should also have been concerned about a 
guarantee offered by a new business with no track record (and promoted by a business 
with a questionable one).
I think, in light of this, Options should have been concerned that consumers may have 
been misled or did not properly understand the investment they intended to make. 
Consumers could easily have been given the impression, from the marketing material, 
that they were assured of high returns with little or no risk and would easily be able to sell 
their investment when they wished to. Such an impression was clearly misleading.
I think all of this should have been considered alongside the fact the investment was being 
sold by an unregulated business, which was clearly targeting pension investors. In my 
opinion it is fair and reasonable that Options ought to have concluded there was an 
obvious risk of consumer detriment.
All in all, I am satisfied that Options ought to have had a significant cause for concern 
about the nature of the Store First investment from the beginning. And I think these 
concerns, in themselves, should have at the very least led it to be very cautious about 
accepting Store First and to think very carefully about the basis on which it should be 
accepted, mindful of its obligation to prevent consumer detriment. So this should have 
been at the forefront of its mind when considering whether to accept applications from JF.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances its fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options ought reasonably to 
have concluded, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on the Store First investment and on JF and draw fair and reasonable conclusions from what it discovered, that it shouldnt accept business from JF, 
including Mr Ss application. I therefore conclude that its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to say Options shouldnt have accepted Mr Ss application from JF.
Was it fair and reasonable to proceed with Mr Ss instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Options simply shouldve refused to accept Mr Ss 
application. So, things shouldnt have got beyond that. However, for completeness, Ive 
considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Options to proceed with Mr Ss 
application.
I acknowledge Mr S was asked to sign the indemnity and Options would have put some 
reliance on that and the declaration within the application form. I note the indemnity 
document gives warnings about the speculative or high-risk nature of the Store First 
investment. And both documents sought to confirm that Mr S wouldnt hold Options 
responsible for any losses resulting from the investment. However, I dont think these 
documents demonstrate Options acted fairly and reasonably by proceeding with Mr Ss 
instructions.
Asking Mr S to sign indemnities absolving Options of all its responsibilities when it ought to 
have known that Mr Ss dealings with JF were putting him at significant risk of detriment was 
not the fair and reasonable thing to do, and was not an effective way for Options to meet its 
regulatory obligations in the circumstances. So, it was not fair and reasonable to proceed, on 
the basis of this. I make this point only for completeness  the primary point is Mr S should 
simply not have been able to proceed, he should not have got to the stage of signing 
declarations as the business shouldnt have come about at all. His application should simply 
not have been accepted.
Furthermore, as set out above (and I detail below), I am satisfied section 27 of FSMA offers 
a further and alternative basis on which it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr Ss 
complaint should be upheld.
Sections 27 and section 28 of FSMA
Options has said restitution under section 27 of FSMA could not be available, because the 
case-specific factors relied upon by the Court of Appeal in Adams for refusing section 28 
relief in that case are absent on the facts of this case. On the basis of the evidence before 
me, I disagree that section 27 would not apply here.
I have set out the key sections of section 27 and section 28 above and have considered 
them carefully, in full. In my view I need to apply a four-stage test to determine whether 
section 27 applies and whether a court would exercise its discretion under section 28, as 
follows:
1. Whether an unauthorised third-party was involved
2. Whether there is evidence that the third-party acted in breach of the general 
prohibition in relation to the particular transaction and, if so
3. Whether the customer entered into an agreement with an authorised firm in 
consequence of something said or done by the unauthorised third-party in the course 
of its actions that contravened the general prohibition, and4. Whether it is just and equitable for the agreement between the customer and the 
authorised firm to be enforced in any event.
Test 1 is clearly satisfied here  JF was an unauthorised third party. Test 2 is also satisfied  
for the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied JF carried out activities in breach of the 
general prohibition  and any one regulated activity is sufficient for these purposes so this 
test would be met if JF had only undertaken arranging (which, for the reasons I have set out, 
I do not think is the case). Test 3 is satisfied too  the SIPP was opened in consequence of 
the advice given, and arrangements made, by JF. That brings me to the final test, 4. Having 
carefully considered this, I am satisfied a court would not conclude it is just and equitable for 
the agreement between Mr S and Options to be enforced in any event. I think very similar 
reasons to those mentioned by the Court of Appeal in the Adams case apply here:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers 
from their own folly.
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so 
onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce 
agreements and being required to return money and other property and to pay 
compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the general prohibition.
For all the reasons set out above, Options should have concluded JF was giving 
advice, or have suspected it was, and giving advice to consumers who were not 
necessarily financially sophisticated.
As set out above, Options was aware, or ought to have been aware that:
oThere were connections between JF and Store First which gave rise to a 
clear conflict of interests.
oAnother unregulated introducer was being paid a high level of commission by 
Store First and it was likely JF took a high level of commission from Store 
First too, which it may not have disclosed.
oJF had failed to provide its company accounts and other compliance 
documents despite repeated requests for copies of them by Options.
oOptions accepted business from JF despite not having a Terms of Business 
in place and despite the business in this case not complying with Options own 
SIPP Guidance Notes.
oThere was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed 
and consumers such as Mr S were therefore unable to make a fully informed 
decision about the transfer to the SIPP and investment.
The investment didnt proceed until long after all these things were known, or ought 
to have been known, to Options and so it was open to it to decline the investment, or 
at least explore the position with the consumer.
So, whilst I appreciate that some of the additional reasons the Court of Appeal gave for not 
exercising its discretion under section 28(3) may not be present in this case, I dont think it likely, given Mr Ss position and the process which led to the transfer of his pension that a 
Court would seek to exercise that discretion and enforce the contract in these 
circumstances.
My final decision is that the complaint should be upheld. I have therefore gone on to 
consider the question of fair compensation.
Is it fair to require Options to compensate Mr S?
Options might say that it did not cause Mr Ss loss because it is very likely that he was 
extremely keen to proceed with the investment and would have found a way to invest even if 
Options had not been dealing with JF or if it had not been accepting Store First investments. 
I dont agree.
I have seen no evidence to show that Mr S would have proceeded even if Options had 
rejected his application. Ive seen nothing to suggest he was looking to make a transfer prior 
to JF contacting him, or that he was keen to proceed with the transfer to release funds.
I have not seen anything that makes me think Mr S would have sought out another SIPP 
provider if Options had declined the application, or terminated the application, and explained 
why. In any event, I think any SIPP provider acting fairly and reasonably should have 
reached the conclusion it should not deal with JF. I do not think it would be fair to say Mr S 
should not be compensated based on speculation that another SIPP operator might have 
made the same mistakes as Ive found Options did.
I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the 
application, or would have terminated the transaction before completion.
Fair compensation
I consider that Options failed to comply with its own regulatory obligations and didnt put a 
stop to the transactions that are the subject of this complaint. My aim in awarding fair 
compensation is to put Mr S back into the position he would likely have been in had it not 
been for Options failings. Had Options acted appropriately, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr S would have remained a member of the pension scheme he transferred into the 
SIPP.
When considering this Ive taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary judgment 
in Adams ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with restitution/ 
compensation. But ultimately, its for me to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
I think Mr S would have remained with his previous pension provider, however I cannot be 
certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I 
am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and 
given what I understand of Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
In light of the above, Options should:
Obtain the actual transfer value of Mr Ss SIPP, including any outstanding charges.Pay a commercial value to buy any illiquid investments (or treat them as having a 
zero value).
Undertake a loss calculation as set out below and pay any redress owing in line with 
the steps set out below.
If Mr S has paid any fees or charges from funds outside of his pension arrangements, 
Options should also refund these to Mr S. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year 
from date of payment to date of refund should be added to this.
Pay to Mr S £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused by Options failings.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Options deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Options should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC as appropriate.
Ive set out how Options should go about calculating compensation in more detail below.
Treatment of any illiquid assets held in the SIPP
The SIPP only exists because of the investments made in 2012. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining Store First investments need to 
be removed from Mr Ss SIPP. To do this, Options should calculate an amount its willing to 
accept for Mr Ss Store First investments and pay that sum into Mr Ss SIPP and take 
ownership of the Store First investments. Any sums paid into the SIPP to purchase the Store 
First investments will then make up part of the current actual value of the SIPP.
If Options is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying Mr Ss illiquid investment/s, it 
should give the holding/s a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. To be 
clear, this would include their being given a nil value for the purposes of ascertaining the 
current value of Mr Ss SIPP. In this instance Options may ask Mr S to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the relevant holding/s. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on 
the amount Mr S may receive from the investment/s and any eventual sums he would be 
able to access from the SIPP. Options will have to meet the cost of drawing up any such 
undertaking.
I think that is fair because I think its unlikely the Store First investments will have any 
significant realisable value in the future. Further, I understand Mr S has the option of 
returning his Store First investments to the freeholder for nil consideration. And that should 
enable Mr S to close his SIPP if Options is unable to take ownership of his Store First 
investments.
Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer
Options should first contact the provider of the plan which was transferred into the SIPP and 
ask it to provide a notional value for the policy as at the date of calculation. For the purposes 
of the notional calculation the provider should be told to assume no monies would have been 
transferred away from the plan, and the monies in the defined contribution policy would have 
remained invested in an identical manner to that which existed prior to the actual transfer.
Any contributions or withdrawals Mr S has made will need to be taken into account whether the notional value is established by the ceding provider or calculated as set out below.
Any withdrawal out of the SIPP, including any PCLS or pension income that has been paid 
to him, should be deducted at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return 
in the calculation from that point on. To be clear this doesnt include SIPP charges, or any 
fees paid to the introducer. The same applies for any contributions made, these should be 
added to the notional calculation from the date they were actually paid, so any growth they 
would have enjoyed is allowed for.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from the previous provider, or if 
Options has, since making its offer to Mr S in October 2023, already made reasonable 
efforts to obtain a notional value from the previous provider but not been able to, then 
Options should instead arrive at a notional valuation by assuming the monies would have 
enjoyed a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. That is a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that could have been achieved over the period in question.
The notional value of Mr Ss previous plan if monies hadnt been transferred (established in 
line with the above) less the current value of the SIPP (as at date of calculation) is Mr Ss 
loss.
Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of this final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 
28 days.
Pay an amount into Mr Ss SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss calculated 
above
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
SIPP fees
I note that Options has already confirmed that it will charge no further fees to Mr Ss SIPP 
account. I think it is fair and reasonable for Options to waive any SIPP fees until such a time 
as Mr S can dispose of the investment(s) and close the SIPP.
However, in the event the Store First investments remain in the SIPP only because Mr S has 
decided not to transfer them to the freeholder, Mr S should be aware that he will be liable for 
all future costs associated with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business 
rates, ground rent and any other charges. He should also be aware its unlikely he will be 
able to make a further complaint about these costs.Pay Mr S £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by Options failure to act fairly and 
reasonably
I think its fair to say whats happened here has caused Mr S some distress and 
inconvenience. He will clearly have been worried that his retirement provision will have been 
reduced. So, I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate him for that 
upset.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right I 
require that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP must calculate and pay Mr S the award set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman