DRN-2328063
The complaint
Mr S complains about Erudio Student Loans Limited (ESL) and the arrears they have 
applied to his loan account.
What happened
In 2014, Mr Ss student loans was transferred to ESL to manage. As part of the loans terms 
and conditions, Mr S was able to defer payment of his loans as long as he could prove he 
earned below the deferment threshold. This deferment needed to be applied for each year.
In May 2015, ESL sent Mr S the deferment forms to complete, as per their process. But Mr S 
says he didnt receive these, and so didnt complete a deferment application. Because of 
this, Mr Ss account accrued arrears as monthly payments were due and there wasnt a 
payment method set up.
In May 2016, Mr S applied for a new deferment. But he raised concerns about the arrears 
that had accrued on his account. ESL approved Mr Ss deferment for the next year and 
refunded three months arrears as part of this process. But they explained as a deferment 
wasnt in place for the previous year, the remaining arrears would need to be paid unless Mr 
S was able to provide medical evidence to show why he was unable to complete it. They 
offered to arrange a payment plan and signposted Mr S to organisation who provided debt 
advice. 
Mr S didnt agree a repayment plan with ESL as he didnt think the arrears should be paid, 
and he was in financial difficulty at the time. Because of this, ESL issued a notice of default 
and advised Mr Ss debt may be passed to a debt collection company. Mr S was unhappy 
with this, so he raised a formal complaint. 
Mr S didnt think the arrears had been applied fairly. He explained he didnt receive the 
deferment letters sent by ESL, and that he was under the impression the deferment lasted 
for two years. He was unhappy that ESL had threatened debt collection on the amount and 
that the arrears meant he may be ineligible for the debt to be written off, in line with the 
terms of agreement. He explained he had a mental health condition which made it difficult to 
complete the forms and he was unhappy that ESL didnt accept the redacted medical 
evidence as proof of this. So, he wanted ESL to accept the medical evidence he provided 
and to remove the outstanding arrears on his account.
ESL didnt agree. They thought theyd applied the arrears fairly, in line with the terms of the 
agreement, so they didnt think they needed to do anything more. They explained the option 
of deferment was a choice and not an obligation if a customer earned below the threshold. 
So, an application to defer needed to be made each year unless medical grounds allowed 
them to extend this. And they didnt think the medical evidence Mr S supplied gave enough 
information for them to make a decision on whether the deferment periods should be 
extended, and whether the arrears should be removed. 
They explained if Mr S was able to provide unredacted medical evidence, they could 
reconsider this. But they also explained this wasnt a requirement for Mr S, so it was his 
choice whether he wished to do so.
They also explained there were several ways in which Mr S could complete the application. 
And that Mr S could appoint someone to complete this application on his behalf if he wished. 
And they offered Mr S the chance to contact them to arrange a repayment plan, to pay the 
arrears. Mr S remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised Mr Ss 
concerns about not receiving the deferment documents. But shed seen theyd been sent, so 
didnt think this was the fault of ESL. As a deferment wasnt in place, she thought ESL had 
acted fairly, in line with the terms of the agreement, by applying the arrears. And because of 
this, she thought they were fair to issue notices regarding the debt and what may happen if 
the arrears remained unpaid. She also understood Mr Ss concerns about the medical 
evidence, but she didnt think ESL were unfair to ask for unredacted information so they 
could make a decision. And she thought ESL offered alternative ways to complete the 
application, so didnt think the application process was inaccessible to Mr S. So, she didnt 
think ESL had done anything wrong and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair that a deferment had to be applied for when a 
customer earned below the income threshold. He thought the deferment should be made 
obligatory, to prevent situations like this occurring. He also didnt think it was fair that he was 
left financially impacted by an error with the documents in the post. He thought the medical 
evidence he supplied was sufficient, so he wanted the arrears to be removed and his 
deferment periods to be extended. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. Ive no doubt Mr Ss 
intention was to defer his payments to the loans. And I recognise this is because he earns 
below the payment threshold. Im seen Mr Ss comments where he discusses his financial 
situation and the outstanding debt he has, and I appreciate this means he doesnt have the 
means to clear the arrears straight away. Because of this, I recognise how upsetting it 
wouldve been for Mr S to realise the accounts had built arrears and the worry this wouldve 
caused. And I can appreciate how receiving communication from ESL explaining the debt 
may be passed to a third party, and how the arrears may affect his eligibility for it to be 
written off, wouldve made this worse.
But for me to say ESL should remove the arrears, Id need to be satisfied theyd done 
something wrong. So, Id need to see that by applying the arrears they acted unfairly, or 
outside of the terms of the agreement Mr S held with them. And if I think the arrears were 
applied fairly, I would then need to be satisfied that ESL acted unfairly when deciding the 
medical evidence Mr S supplied was insufficient for them to remove the arrears, and extend 
the deferment period, on medical grounds. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first considered whether ESL acted fairly when applying the arrears to Mr Ss account. I 
think its important for me to explain that the loans Mr S hold are automatically payable. So, 
any customer must apply for a deferment on the payments if they fall below this payment threshold. This is so customers who still wish to pay even if they earn below the threshold 
are able to do so. I appreciate Mr S doesnt feel this is fair, but this was a process set by the 
original student loan provider. And our service is unable to comment on processes but in 
place by businesses. Ive also seen that Mr S agreed to this process when he took out the 
loans. So, I cant say ESL have done anything wrong by managing the loans in this way.
Ive seen the terms of this agreement, which I think explain clearly that a deferment period 
lasts a year at a time. And I think they make it reasonably clear that a deferment application 
needs to be made each time. Ive seen Mr S believes his deferment application made in 
2014 was for two years, but Ive seen no evidence to show this was confirmed by ESL.
What I have seen is ESL sent new deferment documents to Mr S in May 2015. This 
suggests to me that ESL expected Mr S to complete the usual process of applying for a 
deferment each year. Mr S says he didnt receive these documents. But Ive seen they were 
sent to him. And it wouldnt be fair for me to hold ESL responsible for any issues with the 
postal service.
I understand Mr S feels hes been held responsible himself. But I dont think thats the case. 
As Ive explained, Ive seen no evidence to show it was confirmed that Mr S only needed to 
apply for a deferment every two years. Without this, I think its reasonable for me to assume 
Mr S would need to apply every year. So, when Mr S didnt receive any communication 
about a new deferment application, I wouldve expected Mr S to contact ESL to query this 
and ensure a deferment was made. This is because I think the terms of the loan made it 
clear that deferment of the loans was an option Mr S would need to apply for and provide 
evidence to show hes eligible. So, I think the onus was on him to ensure a deferment was in 
place.
Mr S didnt do this, so there was no deferment in place between May 2015 to May 2016. Ive 
seen when Mr S re-applied for a deferment in 2016, ESL agreed to remove three months of 
the previous years arrears. So, the arrears outstanding are from May 2015  February 2016. 
I think this showed ESL acted reasonable, taking Mr Ss concerns and financial situation into 
account. But, as I dont think there was a deferment in place, I think the monthly payments of 
the loan were payable between these months. As Mr S didnt pay these, I think ESL have 
acted fairly when applying them as arrears to the account. And this is in line with the terms of 
the agreement Mr S holds with ESL. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong when doing 
so.
I understand Mr S suffers from a condition which makes it more difficult for him to complete 
the deferment applications. And he thinks ESL failed to consider this when applying the 
arrears. But Ive seen Mr S managed to complete the deferment application the year before, 
and in the years after. Ive seen ESL have also made Mr S aware of different ways in which 
he can complete the application, rather than through the post. And theyve also explained Mr 
S would be able to ask a representative to complete an application on his behalf if he 
needed it. I cant see that Mr S made ESL aware of this difficulty before the missed 
deferment in 2015, so I dont think ESL did anything wrong that meant Mr S was unable to 
complete the application. As Mr S has stated, he didnt receive the documents so didnt try to 
make an application, rather than attempting to and finding it difficult to complete.
Ive then considered Mr Ss complaint surrounding the medical evidence he provided to ESL. 
Mr S has provided ESL medical evidence to show his mental health was impacted at the 
time of the missed deferment, and this impacted his ability to complete the application. 
Because of this, he wanted the deferment period to be extended longer than a year at a 
time, and the arrears on the account removed. But ESL have said this medical evidence isnt 
sufficient for them to make a decision. So, Ive thought about whether ESL have acted fairly 
in relation to this. And I think they have.As Mr S is asking for ESL to alter the deferment process on medical grounds, I think the 
onus is on Mr S to provide sufficient evidence to show he qualifies for this. And as Mr S is 
asking for an exemption, I think ESL are entitled to set the parameters for what evidence is 
sufficient. In this case, Mr S has provided a photograph of three letters from three dates, with 
redacted writing shown on one of the letters. While I think this shows Mr S has an ongoing 
health condition, it doesnt specify what this is or importantly, how this impacted him in 
making a deferment application. So, I dont think ESL have acted unfairly by deciding this 
information isnt enough to make a decision on the deferment extension, or removal of 
arrears. ESL have said they will consider this again if Mr S provided unredacted medical 
evidence. It is Mr Ss decision as to whether he wishes to do so. 
And finally, Ive considered Mr Ss concerns about the arrears impacting his eligibility to have 
the loans cancelled. ESL have confirmed this may be the case, but Mr S hasnt yet had the 
loan for long enough to be in a position to qualify. ESL have offered Mr S the option of 
agreeing an affordable repayment plan to clear these arrears. So, I think ESL have acted 
fairly by making Mr S aware of the possible implications having the arrears may have. And 
as I think the arrears have been applied fairly, and ESL have offered Mr S ways forward to 
remove/repay the arrears, I dont think theyve done anything wrong.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. And I recognise it leaves him with 
arrears outstanding, which he doesnt feel he is in a financial position to pay. But I hope it 
goes some way to explaining why I dont think ESL have acted unfairly and outlines the 
options Mr S has moving forwards.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Erudio Student Loans 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman