DRN-1592105
The complaint
Mrs P and Mrs L are unhappy that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) gave them the wrong 
type of account. They complain that this resulted in hurtful and unnecessary questions being 
asked about the way the account was used.
What happened
In her late fathers will, Mrs P and her relative, Mrs L, had been appointed as trustees of a 
discretionary trust. The trust was intended primarily for the benefit of Miss R, who has a 
learning disability. 
Miss P was a long-standing YBS customer - she held YBS accounts in her own name which 
she used for day to day expenses. To be clear, this case relates to two accounts, ending 
xxx04207 and xxx0507, which were opened in 2013 by Mrs P and Mrs L as joint trustees for 
Miss R. The trustees say they believed both had been set up as discretionary trusts. They 
understood a discretionary trust to mean theyd be able to decide when and how to use the 
money for Miss Rs benefit. 
The trustees filled out a joint application to open each account. They named Miss R as 
beneficiary and specified that only one signature would be required to operate the accounts. 
The same reasoning applies to both, but I will focus mainly on the second account because 
thats the one they had a problem with. The trustees opened the second account in a local 
YBS branch in November 2013. 
In September 2019, Mrs P requested a large transfer from the second trust account to her 
own personal account. She was questioned by YBS staff as to why this money was needed 
 in the meantime they froze the account.
 
Mrs P complained to YBS about their restriction on the account  she felt theyd treated her 
with suspicion. YBS told her the account hadnt been set up as a discretionary trust - it had 
been set up in the way they would open a childs account. They said that, because it was 
being used to manage a vulnerable adults finances, theyd treated the account as if a power 
of attorney was in place. This meant YBS monitored all account activity to ensure it was for 
Miss Rs benefit.
Mrs P complained that the account theyd opened in trust for Miss R wasnt suitable. Our 
investigator thought YBS made an error by opening the account as if Miss P was a child. But 
she didnt think theyd acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way they handled the situation. 
This was because YBS wouldve required the trustees to provide legal documentation to 
open a discretionary trust account - and the trustees didnt have this.
 
Our investigator didnt think YBS did anything unusual or disproportionate in response to Mrs 
Ps request to transfer funds out of the account. She was satisfied that YBS have a duty of 
care to ensure funds withdrawn from a vulnerable customers account are used for that 
persons benefit. And she didnt think there was any evidence that Miss R suffered financial 
loss or problems accessing her money due to the account not being set up as a 
discretionary trust.
The trustees were still unhappy that the account(s) had been set up as if Miss R was a child, 
which clearly wasnt the case. They said they hadnt been given full information about these 
accounts  and they hadnt been told they werent discretionary trusts. They said Miss R had 
been caused stress by being taken into a back room by YBS staff and asked questions 
about why she was withdrawing money, and whether she was giving it to anybody. The case 
has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that the accounts YBS gave the trustees werent discretionary trusts, and 
that this type of account isnt intended to be used for an adult beneficiary. But even if YBS 
made an error by opening the account as if Miss P was a child, on balance, I dont consider 
this to have had an unfair impact on the trustees. Ill explain why I say this. 
YBS have confirmed that they did offer a discretionary trust account in 2013. But to open this 
type of account they wouldve required the trustees to produce trust documentation showing 
what they were authorised to do. YBS say the other option would be to set the account up 
with power of attorney. Its clear from the evidence that the trustees didnt have discretionary 
trust, power of attorney or Court of Protection documents. The trustees have told us that 
Miss R is unable to appoint a power of attorney  and that applying to the Court of Protection 
seemed disproportionate in their circumstances. So, Im satisfied that the trustees would 
have been caused inconvenience and expense if YBS had sent them away to get this kind of 
legal documentation  and that YBS tried to help by offering a simpler solution. 
That leads me to consider whether YBS explained things clearly to the trustees  particularly 
with that second account. Theres no record of the conversations that took place in the 
branch, when the account was set up. Ive looked in detail at the information provided by 
YBS, Mrs P and Mrs L. But due to the differing accounts given and limited recollections of 
those involved Im unable to assess whether the trustees made it clear that they wanted a 
discretionary trust - and whether YBS staff explained why they thought the proposed account 
would be the best solution they could offer in the circumstances.
The trustees say they didnt see leaflets setting out the account terms and conditions. YBS 
have provided copies of these. I dont think there was anything in YBSs account leaflets at 
the time that would have made the trustees realise it wasnt a discretionary trust. For these 
reasons I can understand why they might think theyd opened either a discretionary trust 
account, or something that would operate in the same way. So, on balance, I accept that 
YBS may not have clearly explained the way theyd set the accounts up. 
That said, even if YBS had explained things to them very clearly, Im not persuaded that the 
trustees wouldve done anything different. On the evidence Ive seen, the process of setting 
up the accounts was relatively simple and hadnt cost them anything  and the accounts 
operated smoothly for almost 6 years. Both accounts appear to have met their needs until 
2019, when questions were raised about large transactions on the account opened in 
November 2013. Ive looked carefully at all the evidence provided by the trustees and YBS 
about the way in which that situation was handled. 
YBS have a duty of care to all their customers  I can see that the account terms and 
conditions allow them to refuse any transaction that could be fraudulent or unlawful. And 
Miss R had been a customer at her local YBS branch for many years  they knew she was 
vulnerable. Its considered best practice for financial businesses to exercise a higher degree of care in these circumstances. Although being asked questions by staff about her money 
may have been confusing for Miss R, I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was done 
in an inappropriate or insensitive way. Im satisfied that this was reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances.
For the same reasons, I dont think YBS did anything wrong by asking Mrs P questions 
about a large transaction that seemed unusual. Mrs P says she found the letter she received 
from YBS unnecessarily hurtful. I can appreciate that Mrs P felt insulted by questions from 
strangers about whether she was using the money for her sisters benefit. But having 
reviewed the letter YBS sent her, I dont find anything rude or insensitive in what they said. 
Im satisfied that YBS didnt do anything wrong here.
 
In December 2019 the trustees closed both accounts. They say YBSs failure to open the 
two accounts as discretionary trusts has caused them to incur the expense of instructing 
solicitors to resolve the situation. I can understand their frustration that they werent able to 
open discretionary trust accounts without incurring the expense of a solicitor. But as Ive 
explained, they wouldve needed to provide legal documentation for YBS to open that type of 
account - which they didnt have. So Im not persuaded that theyve incurred extra expense 
or inconvenience due to the type of account YBS gave them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold Mrs P and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman