DRN-2732003
The complaint
Mr B complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) closed a finance agreement he had 
with them in error and havent fairly compensated him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr Bs agreement was terminated in error and that the 
bank provided information that suggested the direct debit was in place when it wasnt. 
I can understand that Mr B would have been confused about the closure of his account and 
worried about the impact on his credit file. Hed have naturally also been concerned about 
the inaccurate information that had been provided to him about his direct debit. So, I would 
agree that the business needed to provide some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience their actions had caused.
Black Horse provided £100 compensation because they closed the agreement in error and a 
further £100 because they agreed Mr B had been provided incorrect information about his 
direct debits. Theyve also explained that they have removed any adverse information they 
reported to Mr Bs credit file in relation to this issue. I think those actions were reasonable in 
the circumstances and Im not asking them to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman