DRN-3965786
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) turned down a claim 
he made on his legal expenses insurance policy.
LV has an administrator who handles claims but as that agent does so for and on behalf of 
LV, Ill simply refer to LV throughout.
What happened
Mr O has legal expenses insurance with LV. In August 2021 he made a claim on his policy. 
The dispute he was seeking assistance with was an employment one for unfair dismissal 
and other matters. The policy provided cover for breaches of an employment contract. Mr O 
did not have a written contract of employment but said the way in which he was employed 
would meet the requirements to be considered as such. Mr Os instructed solicitor confirmed 
they thought Mr Os claim had prospects of success.
LV sought an opinion from its panel solicitors as to the claims Mr O wished to make. The 
panel solicitors said without further information to support Mr Os position, it wouldnt be able 
to confirm the claims had prospects of success as required by the policy. It also raised 
concerns about Mr Os employment status and whether that would meet the requirements 
for cover as set down by the policy. LV let Mr O know it would be unable to support his 
insurance claim at that time.
As Mr O and his solicitor disagreed with LVs position, LV offered to seek the opinion of a 
barrister. But said before it would do so, it would need to be provided with all of the relevant 
information relating to the claim.
Mr Os claim went on to settle outside of the tribunal process and the settlement made an 
award for legal costs. Mr O complains LV acted unreasonably in declining to support his 
claim and cover the legal costs he incurred. He believes LVs actions meant he received less 
compensation that he otherwise would have done.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 13 January 2023, I said I intended to reject the complaint 
for the following reasons:
While Mr Os solicitor regarded his claims as having prospects of succeeding, the terms and 
requirements of the insurance policy sit separate to that. So, LV was entitled to seek its own 
legal opinion on both whether the initial policy requirement for cover to engage was met, 
(having a contract of employment) and, then whether the underlying claims Mr O were 
making were more likely than not to succeed. And, in the circumstances of this case, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for LV to do this.
While the panel solicitor who provided the advice to LV was junior to Mr Os solicitor in terms 
of post qualification experience, I dont think this automatically means their advice should 
have been disregarded out of hand. Ive read the opinion provided by LVs panel solicitor 
and Im satisfied it addressed both matters in a balanced way, setting out the arguments for 
and against each issue. LV are not legal experts, and I dont think it was unreasonable for it 
to rely on the advice it was given.
The panel solicitors advice concluded that without further evidence being provided to 
substantiate the claims Mr O was making, it could not be concluded that either the policy 
requirement for cover was met or that the underlying claims had prospects of succeeding.
Given Mr O and his solicitor did not accept this position, LV did as I would have expected it 
to do and offered to seek an opinion of a barrister. Its been the long-held approach of this 
service that where there are two conflicting legal opinions, an opinion from a barrister should 
be sought.
However, in order for LV to do so, it needed to be certain that all of the relevant evidence 
would be provided so that the barrister could give fully informed opinion. I dont think this 
was an unreasonable request as it would have been a waste of funds to instruct a barrister 
to provide an opinion where it had already been determined there was a lack of evidence to 
substantiate the issues concerned.
Despite this being explained and multiple requests for information, nothing further was 
provided to LV. It is clear from the file that additional information was available to Mr O and 
his solicitor. The initial claim form referenced documentation and taped conversations were 
available and as the months progressed Mr Os solicitor made reference to tribunal forms 
that had been lodged, that Mr O had made a request for information from his employer and, 
as the tribunal date approached, the trial bundle had been prepared. These pieces of 
information could have been provided to LV at any point in the process as they became 
available and would have allowed the matter to move forward.
I understand Mr Os legal claim was settled outside of the tribunal process and as such, no 
determination was made on his employment status. Simply because a matter is settled does 
not automatically mean the insurance claim met the policy terms or that it had prospects of 
success as required by the policy. Legal matters can be settled for a variety of commercial 
reasons.
Here the decision I need to make is whether LV acted unreasonably in the way it dealt with 
Mr Os insurance claim for assistance with his legal costs. For the reasons set out above, I 
dont think it acted incorrectly. It was reasonable for it to seek an opinion from a barrister 
before agreeing to provide cover and also to request further information be provided before it 
did so.
I therefore do not intend to uphold Mr Os complaint or, to instruct LV to assess or cover the 
legal costs Mr O incurred.
If Mr O is now able to provide the information that LV previously requested, Id expect it to 
consider that in line with the policy terms and conditions. The policy does however allow LV 
to refuse to pay costs which havent been agreed in advance or where a case has been 
settled without it agreeing to it beforehand. Mr O should refer to his policy document 
regarding this.
Should Mr O then be unhappy with any further decision LV make, he would be entitled to 
make a separate complaint about that.
Responses to my provisional findings
LV did not provide a response for me to consider. Mr O said that he disagrees with my findings. He reiterates that he was given conflicting 
information at the start of the claim as to the action he was required to take which led him to 
believe he was being misdirected. Mr O says that this is why he stepped back from dealing 
with LV and left that to his appointed solicitor. He believes it is unfair that he had to pay the 
legal costs when he had insurance cover in place to cover such an eventuality. 
Mr Os appointed solicitor also responded saying they disagreed with the provisional 
decision. In summary they made the following points:
They disagree that it was reasonable for LV to get its own legal opinion on prospects, 
and this isnt set out in the policy terms.
LV favoured the advice of a less experienced, junior solicitor. 
LV should have accepted indemnity based on its opinion on prospects and sought its 
own advice in the background. Allowing its fees to be paid in the meantime. Some 
policyholders do not have the means to pay legal fees upfront to receive advice. This 
service should prevent insurers from being able to take this course of action.
They reiterated the history of the claim and their communications with LV about the 
merits of the underlying legal claim. 
They cooperated with LV as far as they thought it was reasonable for it to do so, 
given they were responsible for the legal claim which was its priority. 
It was not correct to say Mr Os case was settled outside of the tribunal process as 
proceedings had started on the day the matter was settled. 
They disagree with my opinion that a legal case may settle for a variety of reasons 
but that doesnt necessarily mean it had prospects of doing so as required by the 
policy terms. 
LV could have approached Mr O for information directly.
They believe it should have been for any instructed barrister to request any additional 
information required. 
They offered to provide information to an instructed barrister but did not receive a 
response from LV. 
They believe the policy was mis-sold as LV did not deal with the claim promptly or 
fairly and it unreasonably rejected the claim.
If I remain of the same opinion as set out in my provisional decision, I should direct 
LV to instruct the barrister that dealt with the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the parties concerned have strong views about what has happened. I want to 
assure them Ive read and considered carefully everything theyve said. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This 
isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single 
point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the 
facts of the case.
Mr Os solicitor has raised many points in response to my provisional findings which I have 
already considered and provided my reasoning for. Having re-reviewed the information 
available to me, I am not minded to change my thoughts on those issues. So while I realise 
they disagree with the actions LV took, and believe their opinion on prospects should have 
been relied upon regardless, I dont think LV did anything wrong in this case. 
This service is not the regulator of the industry, we only consider the issues which arise in 
individual complaints. Our decisions also dont set a precedent in the way a legal case can. I 
understand the appointed solicitor has their own view on how they believe legal expenses 
insurers should operate, however here I am only considering the facts of Mr Os insurance 
claim.
As I understand it Mr O was in contact with the advice line at the start of the claim. Given at 
that point it is not known how a claim will progress I can understand why Mr O may have 
been told different things about the level of contact that would be needed with LV and its 
panel solicitors. Including that if he went on to instruct his own solicitor, he may have little 
need of contact. However, even if I accept conflicting information was given at the start of 
the claim, I dont think this means that no or very little information should have been provided 
as the claim progressed. Im satisfied that LV set out what information was needed and why, 
as the claim progressed and, it was reasonable for it to expect those requests to be fulfilled.
My reference to the claim settling outside the tribunal process, was meant that the tribunal 
itself did not make a finding on Mr Os claim and direct a settlement. The parties reached a 
settlement between them without a finding being made. 
I stand by my comment that legal cases can settle for a variety of different reasons, and this 
wont always automatically mean the underlying case met the requirements for funding 
under an insurance policy.  
LV did approach Mr O direct for information, he responded saying the information was with 
his solicitor and he didnt think information needed to be provided to different lawyers. So, 
Im satisfied LV did what it could to obtain the requested information.
LV was intending to instruct the barrister for its own purpose, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to request information to be sent to itself in the first instance. LV did 
respond to Mr Os solicitor on 29 March 2022 explaining the information would need to be 
directed to it in the first instance. The solicitor responded to this email and copied in this 
service, so Im satisfied the email was received. 
This decision has not considered how the policy was sold to Mr O. If he is unhappy about 
this, he will need to make a separate complaint to the party responsible for selling the policy. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and those above, I wont be upholding 
Mr Os complaint. I think LV has acted reasonably in the way it has dealt with the legal 
expenses insurance claim. I will not be making any direction as to which barrister LV should 
instruct if indeed it chooses to do so. 
As set out in my provisional findings, Mr O is able to approach LV if he is now able to provide 
more information and it will be for LV to consider if its position on the matter has now changed. Mr O would be able to make a separate complaint if he is unhappy with any future 
decision LV makes. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr Os complaint against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman