DRN-3506701
The complaint
Mr W complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by an 
appointed representative (AR) of Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter, the respondent
business in this complaint) and another financial business (which Ill call Firm B). He 
believes that the advice provided was unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering 
a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. So, he contacted an AR of Quilter, who had already 
helped him in early 2017 with another pension he had. As the AR of Quilter wasnt permitted 
by Quilter to advise on the transfer of Mr Ws defined benefits in the BSPS, it told Mr W he 
would be referred to Firm B.
The introduction was made to Firm B in August 2017. Quilters AR told Firm B that Mr W had 
previously transferred a pension to a new pension plan with a provider Ill refer to as A and 
that Mr W wanted to also transfer his BSPS benefits to this plan. Quilters AR provided 
Firm B with the fact-find and an attitude to risk assessment it had carried out with Mr W 
earlier that year.
Firm B met with Mr W in August 2017 and carried out further fact-finding and completed a 
transfer value analysis report (TVAS). Firm B sent Mr W a recommendation letter on 
17 November 2017 advising him to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in his 
existing personal pension plan with A. It recommended he invest the funds in a cautious 
portfolio. Mr W accepted the advice and £113,933.19 was transferred to A. The initial advice 
fee was split between Quilters AR and Firm B.
In 2020 Mr W complained to both Quilter and Firm B about the advice. Quilter told Mr W its 
AR hadnt provided Mr W with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it had referred him 
to Firm B. It added that its AR hadnt provided any advice on the transferred pension funds 
until later in 2018 when Mr W asked it to take over servicing of his pension plan with A.
Mr Ws representative asked our service to consider his complaint, saying Quilter should be
held liable for the advice. The representative said Mr W had been verbally advised to 
transfer by Quilters AR and he had relied on its advice. It said all Firm B did was 
rubberstamp the ARs earlier advice and it was a joint venture between the two firms. The 
representative added that by referring Mr W to Firm B it hadnt treated him fairly or acted in 
his best interests.
Quilter told our investigator that it didnt think our service had jurisdiction to consider Mr Ws 
complaint about its alleged role in the advice. It said introducing Mr W to Firm B was not a 
regulated activity and its AR hadnt carried out a regulated activity until after Mr Ws BSPS 
benefits were transferred.
Our investigator told Quilter that we could consider Mr Ws complaint against it but Quilter 
didnt agree. The complaint was subsequently referred to me to provide a decision on the 
matter.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 April 2022 explaining that I thought we could consider 
Mr Ws complaint, but that I wasnt intending to uphold it. I repeat my findings below, which 
form part of my final decision.
Can Mr W complain about the actions of Quilter before his BSPS benefits were transferred?
Our jurisdiction to consider complaints is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. There are a number of factors that determine whether or 
not we can consider a complaint, ranging from whether the complainant is eligible to whether 
the activity complained about is something we can investigate.
It isnt in dispute that Mr W is a consumer as per DISP 2.7.3(1). However, in order for him to 
be an eligible complainant, he must also have a complaint which arises from matters 
relevant to a specific relationship with the respondent business  Quilter. DISP 2.7.6 lists the 
relevant relationships; DISP 2.7.6(2) says that if Mr W is (or was) a potential customer of 
Quilter, then he would meet that requirement. And Im satisfied Mr W was a potential 
customer of Quilter when he enquired about transferring his BSPS benefits.
However, DISP 2.3.1 states that we can only consider complaints relating to certain 
specified activities, including regulated activities, or any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them. Ancillary activity is defined in the FCA 
Handbook as:
An activity which is not a regulated activity but which is:
a) carried on in connection with a regulated activity; or
b) held out as being for the purposes of a regulated activity.
In relation to ancillary activities, the Handbook definition quoted above clearly allows that the 
ancillary link may exist both forwards and backwards in time. A firm may carry on ancillary 
activities in connection with regulated activities it intends to carry on in future as well as 
regulated activities it is in the process of carrying on or has already carried on.
When Mr W was referred to Firm B, he was already a customer of Quilters AR. It had 
advised him on the switch of a pension and Mr W had agreed to it providing ongoing advice 
and servicing of that pension. It isnt in dispute that the Quilters AR didnt have permission 
under its agreement with Quilter to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit pension 
schemes. For this reason, it introduced Mr W to Firm B.
Introducing is not a regulated activity where the introduction is made to an authorised firm 
with a view to advice or the exercise of discretion in relation to investments. This type of 
introduction is specifically excluded by Article 33 of the Regulated Activities Order. However, 
the ongoing advice provided after the transfer was a regulated activity, although as 
I understand no fault in that advice is alleged nor any loss attributed to such a fault  the 
complaint is entirely about the events prior to the transfer advice and that advice itself.Quilter argues that the role the AR carried out by introducing Mr W to Firm B cannot be 
ancillary to the later advice it gave Mr W about his pension after the BSPS benefits had 
transferred. It said Mr W had instigated this several months after the transfer and asked 
Quilters AR to take on the servicing of this pension. It adds that it cannot be held 
accountable for any advice Firm B gave Mr W about the transfer of his BSPS benefits.
It isnt in dispute that Quilter carried on a regulated activity when it started giving Mr W 
ongoing advice and servicing of his pension in 2018. So, the key issue here is whether the 
earlier introduction to Firm B can be considered as ancillary to the later ongoing advice.
Quilter has argued that at the point of the ARs contact with Mr W, it couldnt have known 
that Firm B would go on to advise Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits. And as the provision 
of ongoing advice was dependent on the advice to transfer, its early contact cannot be 
considered as ancillary. But Firm B did in fact advise Mr W to transfer out of the BSPS and 
servicing was then transferred to Quilter. And Im satisfied that this was always the intention 
of the arrangement, as evidenced by the following:
An email from Firm B to Quilters AR dated 5 October 2017 advising the AR that 
servicing rights for the existing personal pension with A needed to be transferred to it 
so that it could transfer the BSPS benefits to it. Firm B said the servicing rights could 
all be transferred back to the AR after the transfer completed.
A letter from Firm B to Mr W dated 3 April 2018 advising him that the transfer had 
completed, but it couldnt transfer the BSPS funds to the existing plan with A so he 
now had two plans with A. It said Quilters AR would be able to merge the two plans 
once the servicing rights had been transferred back to the AR.
I think the email and letter demonstrates that it was always the intention that Quilters AR 
would be servicing and providing ongoing advice on the whole of Mr Ws pension funds if the 
transfer went ahead. So, Im satisfied there is a clear connection between the introduction, 
transfer advice, and ongoing advice, and that the first link in that chain would therefore be 
ancillary to the third. So, I think Quilters prior activities were ancillary to its later provision of 
ongoing advice.
For this reason, I think the complaint is within our jurisdiction regardless of whether or not 
Quilter went beyond its role of introducing into arranging or advising on the pension. 
DISP 2.3.1 states that we can consider a complaint about acts or omissions that are ancillary 
activities carried on in connection with a regulated activity. Im satisfied that there is a 
regulated activity to which the introduction can be connected. As Ive said, I think there is an 
ancillary link between Quilters prior activities and the later ongoing advice, and on that basis 
I believe we can consider the complaint about those prior activities. To my mind, it doesnt 
matter that Mr W hasnt complained about the ongoing advice. All that matters is that there is 
a regulated activity to which the activities he has complained about are ancillary.
The merits of Mr Ws complaint
Quilters AR was not permitted under its agreement with Quilter to advise on transfers from a 
defined-benefit occupational pension scheme. For this reason, it introduced Mr W to Firm B. 
However, Mr Ws representative says that Quilter should be held liable for the advice 
because it believes Quilters AR went beyond its role of introducer. It says the AR verbally 
advised Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits to A before Firm Bs involvement and Mr W 
relied on its advice. It points to an email Quilters AR sent to Firm B, which it believes 
supports its position. The email was sent by the AR to Firm B in August 2017, and says:[Mr W] has a pension on [As] platform invested in [a balanced fund] which he wants to 
transfer to, has taken tax free cash from that pension though, but does not want any tax free 
cash from this. Will sign up no prob, can you let me know you have received info on this
Mr Ws representative says that the phrase will sign up no prob demonstrates that Mr W 
had already been persuaded by Quilters AR to transfer out of the BSPS. Whereas Quilter 
has provided a statement from the AR in which he explained that he meant he believed 
Mr W would transfer, but this was of course subject to Firm B providing suitable advice.
Having considered the information available, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence 
to show that Quilters AR advised Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits. I accept the AR 
completed a fact-find and an attitude to risk assessment in relation to the earlier pension 
Mr W switched to A, and it provided a copy of this to Firm B with its introduction. But I cant 
see that the AR gathered any information about Mr Ws objectives in relation to his BSPS 
benefits  the fact-find only provided information about Mr Ws financial circumstances. The 
remaining work required to put Mr W in a position to transfer was completed by Firm B; it 
carried out a TVAS, did further fact-finding and then gave a formal recommendation.
I accept that Mr W must have had a conversation with the AR prior to him introducing Mr W 
to Firm B, where the possibility of transferring his benefits was discussed. And it does 
appear from the email that following this conversation, the AR believed Mr W was motivated 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to A. I also think Quilters AR was probably hoping that Firm B 
would advise Mr W to transfer out of the BSPS so it could also provide ongoing advice in 
respect of this pension and receive fees for it. And its possible that Mr W believed the AR 
was advocating for the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to show 
that Quilters AR gave Mr W a personal recommendation, either verbally or in writing. In my 
view, the evidence shows Firm B advised Mr W to transfer out of the BSPS, not Quilters AR.
Its possible that Quilters AR strayed into giving Mr W verbal advice to transfer his BSPS 
benefits, but regardless, I dont think Mr W couldve done so based on these interactions 
alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr W 
would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he 
wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was 
repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr W would need to 
provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. It is clear to 
me, based on the evidence Ive seen, that the AR didnt issue any recommendation letter or 
suitability report to Mr W advising him to transfer out of BSPS. However, Firm B issued a 
recommendation letter addressed to Mr W recommending that he transfer out of the BSPS 
to a pension with A. So, Mr W couldnt have transferred out of the BSPS based on the 
meetings he had with Quilters AR or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he wouldnt 
have been able to meet the trustees requirements, or the legal requirement to take advice.
I accept that Quilters AR received a substantial part of the advice fee following Mr Ws 
transfer, as a result of it introducing Mr W to Firm B. But, ultimately, Im satisfied Firm B gave 
the advice for Mr W to transfer out of the BSPS, and I dont think the ARs earlier 
involvement should automatically make Quilter liable for the suitability of the pension transfer 
advice provided by Firm B. It is my view that Firm B remains fully responsible for the advice 
it gave Mr W to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr W would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm B had advised him not to transfer. Mr Ws 
representative says Mr W was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with the 
AR, who he says told him it would be a good idea to consolidate his pensions. But on 
balance I dont think Mr W wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm B. Mr W was 
a relatively inexperienced investor and the risk assessment carried out by Firm B showed him to have a low attitude to risk. Mr W also tells us he didnt want to take any risk with his 
pension  he simply wanted to protect it. So, if Firm B had provided Mr W with clear advice 
in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr W 
wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with Quilters AR.
In light of the above, its my decision that it was Firm Bs advice that ultimately enabled Mr W 
to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible for Mr Ws losses 
flowing from the transfer. Im aware Firm B was declared in default by the FSCS, so Mr W 
will need to pursue a claim with the FSCS  I understand he is already doing so.
Mr Ws representative says a joint venture existed between Quilters AR and Firm B to 
facilitate Mr W transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for 
any financial loss Mr W has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Quilter liable for the advice given to Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Ws 
representative states that Mr W was verbally advised to transfer by Quilters AR, Im satisfied 
Mr W transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm B advised him to do so, independently of 
Quilters ARs involvement. So, I think Mr Ws losses flow from Firm Bs advice, rather than 
because of any interaction he had with Quilters AR before that.
Mr Ws representative has also suggested that Quilters AR didnt treat Mr W fairly or act in 
his best interests by partnering with Firm B. It says that Quilters AR ought to have known 
that transferring out of a defined-benefit scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, it 
says it endorsed the advice.
As I have said above, Quilters AR didnt have permission from Quilter to advise Mr W on the 
transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, Quilters AR could not have advised Mr W against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As Quilters AR 
didnt have the necessary permission from Quilter, it referred Mr W to Firm B, which was 
regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think Quilters AR could 
reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm B, particularly as Firm B 
had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated 
adviser, it was also required to treat Mr W fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with 
suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Quilters ARs actions that ultimately 
led to Mr Ws decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. So, I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Quilter to 
pay compensation to Mr W or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
Mr Ws representative didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Quilter responded, saying that it still didnt think the complaint was in jurisdiction as it didnt 
consider the introduction could be considered as ancillary to the ongoing advice. It also said 
I hadnt addressed its earlier point that the activity that is the subject of the complaint must 
be performed by the respondent business (in this case, Quilter). It maintained that Mr Ws 
complaint was about the advice to transfer his BSPS benefits, and this advice had been 
given by Firm B. Quilter accepted the reasons why the complaint should not be upheld in 
any event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from the findings I made in respect of our jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint and the merits of the complaint.
Quilter says that it still does not think the introduction made by its AR can be considered 
ancillary to the later ongoing advice it provided to Mr W. Quilter hasnt provided any 
additional arguments in respect of this point, so I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
made in my provisional decision. So, for the same reasons set out above, I remain satisfied 
that the introduction Quilters AR made to Firm B was ancillary to the ongoing advice it 
provided to Mr W in respect of the benefits hed transferred out of the BSPS. 
Quilter also says that Im unable to consider Mr Ws specific complaint point that Quilters AR 
gave him advice, because its AR was not permitted to do so, and because it was Firm B that 
gave the advice. But I dont think it is helpful in the circumstances of this complaint to seek to 
separate out the specific complaint points Mr W has made here. Ultimately, Mr W has 
complained about the role Quilters AR played in the transfer of his BSPS benefits. And, for 
the reasons already given and set out in full above, Im satisfied we have jurisdiction to 
consider that complaint.
I have determined that it was Firm B, and not Quilters AR, that gave the advice to Mr W that 
enabled him to transfer out of the BSPS. Neither party has provided any comments or 
evidence that would lead me to reach a different conclusion, so I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in my provisional decision. 
I havent seen any evidence that it was Quilters ARs actions that ultimately led to Mr Ws 
decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. So, I dont consider it 
would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Quilter to pay 
compensation to Mr W or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman