DRN-1157360
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in connection with a credit card. Mrs P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in February 1996. The policy cost 
no more than 71p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Mrs P in the event 
she wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Following a successful 
claim, it would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve 
months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
This is not an easy complaint to decide; there is very little documentary evidence available 
from the time of the sales, nearly 25 years ago. So, I must carefully weigh up the evidence 
available to me when reaching my decision. And having done so, Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.
The PPI policy was sold sometime in February 1996 when Mrs P took out her card. Lloyds 
hasnt been able to provide a copy of any application form that Mrs P may have completed at 
the time, so its very difficult for me to know what happened when Mrs P took out the credit 
card and PPI policy.
I accept it is possible Lloyds didnt give Mrs P a choice about taking PPI. I also accept it is 
possible Lloyds gave her the impression she had to take it out. But it seems equally likely 
Lloyds gave Mrs P the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of her credit 
card application, and that she chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten in the many 
years that have now elapsed. And the sample credit card application form that Ive seen, and 
which Lloyds says wouldve been the same as the one completed by Mrs P, says the PPI 
was optional  a customer had to select it if they wanted to purchase it.
This means Im not persuaded (as I must be to uphold Mrs Ps complaint) it is more likely 
than not Lloyds presented the policy to Mrs P as compulsory or that it didnt tell her about the 
policy at all, or indicated that it would assist her overall credit card application. And had she 
chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been added to her account without either her 
knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected her to query or challenge this shortly afterwards, especially as PPI wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card statements for 
several years.
Lloyds says it wouldve recommended the PPI to Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. she told us she was in good health and she was employed, so she wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover that can sometimes affect self-employed 
people or customers with existing medical conditions. And she seems to have had a need for 
the cover  she told us she had some sick pay from her employer  but this this policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to and for longer than her occupational sick pay.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think that Mrs Ps information needs were fully 
met. However, in this case, I dont think Mrs P suffered detriment as a result. I say this 
because after careful consideration Ive decided that, on the balance of probabilities, even 
had she been fully aware of all aspects of the policy, Mrs P is still likely to have taken it out. 
Furthermore, the PPI transactions and costs wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card 
statements, and in the event that the cost was not acceptable to Mrs P, or it became 
unaffordable, she couldve cancelled the policy at any point without penalty.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ps other comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman