DRN-3743868
The complaint
Ms H complains about the processing of a chargeback claim she made to Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms H, but I agree with the investigators view. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Barclays, its administered by Visa and they 
set the rules. Barclays didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it fair for them 
to do so in these circumstances and I can see they did.
When a chargeback is initiated the bank will refund the disputed transaction to the 
customers account whilst the investigation is ongoing. I can see Barclays did that here. The 
amount of the disputed transaction was refunded to Ms Hs account soon after she raised 
her claim.
The merchant disputed the claim and provided evidence that the games had been activated 
through the same IP address used to place the order. Barclays could have chosen to argue 
the point further, but for them to do so Ms H would have needed to respond to them, and to 
have provided information within the timescales theyd set, to enable the business to rebuff 
the merchants comments. But Ms H didnt provide any additional information and in those 
circumstances I dont think it would be fair to suggest Barclays were unreasonable when 
they closed down the claim and re-debited the transaction fee in March 2022.
I dont therefore think Barclays need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman