DRN-4112487
The complaint
Mr K complains about HDi Global Speciality SE (HDi) declining a claim under his pet 
insurance policy for treatment of his dog.
References to HDi include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr K took out a pet insurance policy for his dog with HDi on 19 November 2022. On 6 
December the dog developed an issue when it lay down while out walking and was reluctant 
to move, with laboured breathing. Mr K took the dog to a vet the same day. Following an 
examination and assessment, the vet diagnosed a heart condition (tumour). Given the poor 
prognosis, Mr K made the difficult decision to have the dog euthanised.
Mr K submitted a claim to HDi for the cost of treatment of the dog (£843.07) but HDi declined 
it. They said this was because the first signs or symptoms of the heart condition were 
noticed two weeks before the dog was euthanised, which was within 14 days of the start of 
the policy. As such, the first symptoms occurred during the waiting period which, under the 
terms of the policy, illness or a pre-existing condition were excluded from cover.
At the time of the incident, Mr K told the vet the dog had been vomiting and had diarrhoea a 
week or two before and seemed subdued. But it cleared up after a few days and the dog 
seemed fine until the day of the incident (except for one instance of vomiting three days 
before). Mr K also told the vet the dog seemed a bit picky about its food. Mr K didnt believe 
the instances were linked to the suspected heart condition.
Mr K challenged HDis decline of his claim, which they treated as a complaint. However, they 
didnt uphold it. In their final response they referred to the policy wording for pre-existing 
conditions as well as to wording stating any illness arising within the first14 days of the policy 
start (or a pre-existing condition) wouldnt be covered. HDi said theyd reviewed the claim but 
had identified no errors in their original assessment, which was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. So, they confirmed their decline of the claim.
Mr K then complained to this service, unhappy at HDis final response and their decline of 
his claim. He didnt think the instances of vomiting and diarrhoea were linked to the 
suspected heart condition that caused the dog to pass away. The dog hadnt had any heart 
issues before it passed away and no issues were picked up in regular check-ups. So, Mr K 
didnt know or suspect the heart condition until diagnosed by the vet. He wanted HDi to pay 
out under the terms of the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint, concluding HDi hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably or outside the policy terms and conditions. On the balance of probabilities the 
investigator thought the clinical notes from the vet confirmed symptoms of illness arising in 
the 14-day waiting period, rather than Mr Ks view the symptoms had no bearing on the 
diagnosis of a heart condition.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing he said he didnt think diarrhoea two weeks before the incident was 
part of (linked to) the heart condition. And it should be for HDi to obtain medical evidence to 
support its decision to decline his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to express my sympathies to Mr K for the loss of his dog. Losing a pet is 
difficult, particularly in the circumstances described by Mr K indicating the dogs suspected 
heart condition and having to be euthanised was unexpected. My role here is to decide 
whether HDi have acted fairly towards Mr K. 
The key issue in Mr Ks complaint is whether HDi acted fairly in declining his claim for 
treatment of his dog, on the grounds the dogs clinical history indicated a pre-existing 
condition, within the first 14 days of the policy (which would be from 19 November to 2 
December). Mr K says that while the dog had some vomiting and diarrhoea in the couple of 
weeks before the incident, this had cleared up (other than some vomiting three days before 
the incident date). HDi say the clinical notes for the dog indicate symptoms of the heart 
condition within the 14-day witing period. So, the condition was pre-existing and not covered.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
together with the supporting information and evidence, including the clinical history of Mr Ks 
dog. Starting with the terms and conditions of the policy, HDi refer to the following definition 
of pre-existing condition in their final response:
Pre-existing condition: Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an 
injury or illness, whether diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or 
investigated by a vet or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of the insurance 
or within the first 14 days of the policy for illness or 48 hours in the case of injury.
Section 1: Veterinary fees of the policy terms and conditions then (under a heading of What 
is not covered) includes the following:
7. Any illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception date of the 
insurance or a pre-existing condition.
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition (the 
heart condition diagnosed by the vet (on 6 December). Or whether the condition was 
diagnosed or undiagnosed or identified within the 14-day waiting period. Looking at the 
clinical notes, the key reference (referred to by HDi in their case notes) is that from the visit 
to the vet on 6 December. Given its significance in deciding whether it indicated a pre-
existing condition, Ive set out the key comment:
History  [dog] has seemed a little off it  2 weeks, V ~ 1-2 wks ago, V 3d, 
appetite reduced  off own foodO has noted inc resp effort.
When taken out for walk this am laid down and refused to move
Ive thought carefully whether the clinical notes, together with what Mr K has said, indicate 
symptoms of the heart condition that was subsequently diagnosed by the vet. I recognise by 
its nature this cannot be determined with absolute certainty, so I must reach a conclusion on 
the balance of probabilities. While vomiting and diarrhoea can have different causes, Ive 
also taken account of the clinical notes reference to increased respiratory effort (which is consistent with what Mr K said about laboured breathing) and reduced appetite and being 
subdued. 
Ive also noted the diagnosis of the heart condition as a heart base tumour. The nature of 
this would indicate it being present for some time prior to the incident on 6 December (and 
probably would have led to the increased raspatory effort and laboured breathing. 
Taking these points together, I think the evidence indicates the dog did have symptoms of 
the heart condition subsequently diagnosed by the vet  albeit it was undiagnosed before the 
date of the incident. But that would still fall within the policy definition of a pre-existing 
condition set out above.
 
Picking up Mr Ks point about it being for HDi to provide medical evidence to support its 
decline of his claim, Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an 
exclusion, the onus is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted 
above, Im persuaded HDi have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing 
condition in the circumstances of this case. And the clinical notes would, in the case of a 
claim under pet insurance, be considered medical evidence (as they reflect the professional 
views and notes made by the vet).So, Ive concluded HDi acted fairly to apply the exclusion.
So, Ive concluded HDi acted in line with the policy terms and conditions in declining Mr Ks 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman