DRN-4050214
The complaint
Ms B complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with her policy. In 
particular that it cancelled her policy without telling her. 
What happened
Ms B had a car insurance policy with Ageas which began on 1 September 2022. 
She took the policy out online and said her communication preference was email and text. 
She had to repair her phone and so she didnt have access to her emails until 17 September 
2022. 
The email said her car insurance had been cancelled because she had a claim she didnt 
disclose. 
Ms B tried to contact Ageas to speak to it about the cancellation but spent a long time trying 
to get through; being on hold for long periods of time and then getting cut off. 
When Ms B managed to speak to someone she was told a search of the claims database 
revealed a claim when she was with her previous insurer, but which wasnt declared when 
she took out her policy with Ageas. Ms B said she called her previous insurer to query an 
incident but it wasnt a claim. 
Ms B had no insurance on her car for five days. And when she tried to get new cover she 
had to declare the cancelled Ageas policy and so premiums were very expensive. So she 
had to take out another policy with Ageas. 
Ms B complained to Ageas. Following her complaint Ageas credited her bank account with 
£125. But she says this wont go far enough since Ageas already owes her a refund on her 
direct debit for the cancelled policy.
Ageas said following the setup of Ms Bs policy a check of the claims database revealed an 
incident that was recorded as an open fault accident in June 2022. So Ageas wrote to Ms B 
via her online account telling her she would need to pay an additional premium following the 
result of the database check, or if the information was incorrect to provide proof from her 
previous insurer. The final option was for Ms B to cancel her policy subject to the 
cancellation fee. Ageas told Ms B it required a response within 14 days or her policy would 
be cancelled. Ageas sent a further reminder on 9 September 2022 again via her online 
account. Since Ageas didnt hear from Ms B it cancelled her policy on 21 September 2022. 
Ageas said it doesnt provide an option to receive documents by post and email. It said when 
a policy is purchased online the delivery method is defaulted so documents are downloaded 
to the customers account; and it confirms the documents are available to view online. Ageas 
said it displays four methods of contact for marketing offers: email, text message, post and 
phone. It said Ms B opted out of receiving marketing by post and text message; but this 
doesnt refer to policy documents. It also said once the policy was purchased a message 
appeared which explained there was an email sent which directed Ms B to create an online 
account, which she did that day. Ageas accepted the service Ms B received was not what it 
would have expected and paid her £125 by way of an apology. 
Ms B didnt agree. She thinks £350 to £400 is a more appropriate level of compensation. 
And so she referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for her. 
She said Ms B didnt declare an accident and so Ageas gave her reasonable notice it would 
cancel the policy if it didnt receive a response. Ms B didnt see the correspondence but our 
investigator said that Ageas werent responsible for this. Ageas paid Ms B £125 and 
confirmed Ms B wouldnt need to declare the cancellation to future insurers and so she 
couldnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms B didnt agree with the investigators outcome. She said she was left without car 
insurance for five days and had to obtain another policy with Ageas since the quotes she 
was getting elsewhere were too high due to the cancellation. Ms B also said she had paid 
two direct debits for the insurance in a month. She feels Ageas made an error and she has 
had to pay for that error. 
Because Ms B didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. I know Ms B will be 
disappointed by my decision so I have explained my reasoning below. 
Disclosure of non-fault accident 
When Ms B took out her policy online she was asked the following, has the driver been 
involved in any motoring accidents or claims (regardless of fault) in the last three years. Ms 
B answered no to that question. 
Ms B says she answered no to this question because she didnt make a claim on her policy. 
But that isnt what the question is asking. The question asks about any motoring accidents or 
claims. Ms B admits she was involved in an accident with a log in June 2022 that wasnt her 
fault. Ms B contacted her insurer about the incident but decided not to make a claim given 
the level of excess. So the accident caused enough damage to Ms Bs vehicle that she 
contacted her previous insurer about it at the time. And so when she answered no to the 
question she didnt provide Ageas with accurate information. 
Ageas then received notification from the claims database because Ms Bs previous insurer 
had recorded the accident in June 2022 as an open fault accident. And since this 
contradicted the information Ms B provided at inception of the policy Ageas took steps to 
obtain further information. But when it didnt receive a response from Ms B it cancelled the 
policy. 
The statement of fact sent to Ms B after she took out her policy says, please check this 
information carefully, if there is anything missing or incorrect please let us know immediately 
as this could result in a claim not being paid or your policy being cancelled. And this is what 
happened. I cant say Ageas acted unreasonably since it was acting on the information it had 
at the time and took steps to clarify that information. Ageas dont manage or maintain the 
claims database and it isnt responsible for what information Ms Bs previous insurer records 
on it. Ms B has since confirmed the incident was incorrectly recorded by her previous insurer and 
provided evidence to Ageas to confirm the same. But by the time she did this the policy had 
already been cancelled and so she had to take out another policy. But given what Ive said 
above I cant fairly say Ageas are at fault here. 
Cancellation of policy 
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy allow Ageas to cancel the policy in certain 
situations. One of the examples given is where a mistake is made when providing 
information shown on the statement of fact. The terms go on to say Ageas will give, 7 days 
notice in writing. 
Ageas wrote to Ms B on 2 September 2022 and 9 September 2022 regarding the issue with 
the policy. I have seen copies of that correspondence which asks Ms B to contact Ageas 
within 14 days to resolve the matter or the policy would be cancelled. 
Since Ageas didnt receive a response to those letters it cancelled the policy. I know Ms B 
says she didnt have access to her emails due to her phone being broken but Ageas couldnt 
have reasonably been aware of that. Ageas provided notice within the timescale set out in 
the terms of the policy and when Ms B didnt reply it cancelled her policy. Whilst I can see 
this would have been inconvenient for Ms B it doesnt mean Ageas did anything wrong here. 
I think it was reasonable for Ageas to send the correspondence by email and to assume it 
had been delivered. 
No insurance on car 
Ageas wrote to Ms B to notify her of the discrepancy on the claims database and gave her 
14 days to contact it. When Ageas didnt hear anything after seven days it wrote to Ms B 
again. I agree it would have been worrying to be without car insurance for five days. But Im 
satisfied Ageas gave fair warning of a potential problem and gave sufficient notice of the 
cancellation. 
Customer service 
I know Ms B thinks Ageas should have called her or sent her a letter. But the policy she took 
out was online and so all correspondence was emailed and uploaded onto her online 
account for her to view. Ageas has confirmed paper documents can be sent on request but I 
cant see Ms B requested this. I know she thinks she selected to have correspondence by 
post but what she actually selected were her marketing preferences, which I think is an easy 
mistake to make. But not one I can hold Ageas responsible for. 
Once Ms B was aware of the policy cancellation she spent a significant amount of time 
calling Ageas, waiting for call backs, and obtaining and sending information between 
insurers. I can imagine this would have been stressful for Ms B. Ageas has accepted these 
shortcomings in service and paid £125 by way of an apology. Ageas also waived the £50 
cancellation fee charged to Ms B. I know Ms B has said the compensation doesnt cover the 
inconvenience or reflect the distress of the month where she paid two direct debits for her 
insurance; but since Ageas arent responsible for the situation she finds herself in I cant ask 
it to pay anything more. 
I think the crux of the issue here is that the policy was cancelled because Ageas didnt hear 
from Ms B. Ms B has accepted she didnt see the correspondence from Ageas since she had 
broken her phone. And I appreciate the cancellation of the policy has been stressful for her. 
But I have seen evidence Ageas contacted Ms B to ask for further information and warned 
her the policy could be cancelled. So I cant say Ageas did anything wrong or treated Ms B unfairly in cancelling the policy. And where the service did fall short Ageas paid reasonable 
compensation to reflect this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman