DRN-4239037
The complaint
Mr M and Miss C are unhappy National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined a claim 
made under their building warranty.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M and Miss C purchased a new build home which came with a ten-year 
NHBC building warranty.
In February 2020 a tile from the roof was dislodged and this was repaired by the original 
developer. In November 2022 another tile, in a different area, was dislodged. 
Mr M and Miss C arranged for this to be repaired.
As Mr M and Miss C had concerns about the construction of their roof, they also contacted 
NHBC in November 2022. NHBC considered the issue under section three of the policy, 
which applied in years three to ten of the cover. But NHBC said there was an exclusion that 
the policy didnt provide cover for roof coverings where water hadnt entered the property, so 
they declined the claim. 
However, NHBC said they understood that the issue may have been reported to the 
developer within the first two years of the warranty. So, they said that if Mr M and Miss C 
could provide evidence of this, they might be able to assist under section two of the policy.
Mr M and Miss C brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that section three of the policy didnt 
provide cover based on the exclusion NHBC had relied on, so she thought NHBC had fairly 
declined the claim. 
The investigator also confirmed NHBC hadnt received the proof theyd asked for of 
Mr M and Miss C contacting the builder in the first two years, so she said NHBCs request for 
this to be supplied wasnt unreasonable. The investigator noted that this had later been 
provided, and received by NHBC, but as this was after the final response had been issued, 
she said she couldnt consider what happened later as part of this complaint.
Mr M and Miss C asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr M and Miss C, 
Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
One of the arguments presented by Mr M and Miss C is that they dont think their roof has 
been constructed by the developer in line with British Standard 5534, and they want this 
service to determine whether the builder has complied with British Standards during 
construction. 
However, my remit here isnt about the builder and the construction methods they used. 
Instead, my consideration here is about the warranty provided by NHBC, the policy terms 
and conditions, and whether NHBC have acted fairly and reasonably by declining the claim 
based on the reasons they have given.
As the tile issues were initially reported to NHBC in November 2022, this was in years three 
to ten of the policy  section three of cover. This is how NHBC initially considered the claim.
Section three provides cover (subject to the minimum claim value being reached) for 
physical damage to a number of listed areas, of relevance here:
What you are covered for
This section protects you if there is physical damage to your home because the 
builder failed to build the following parts of your home to meet the NHBC 
requirements.
 roofs
However, there is also an exclusion under this section of the policy which says:
What is not covered under this section  conditions and exclusions
You cannot claim for the following.
Damage to the roof covering (including any underlays, fixings, mortar and 
weatherproofing details) unless the damage results in water getting into your 
home
As water didnt enter the home, and there was no physical damage, I dont think NHBC 
acted unfairly by declining the claim on the basis of this exclusion.
However, NHBC also said that the builder would still remain responsible if issues had been 
reported within the first two years of the cover under section two of the warranty. And it 
would be the builders responsibility, in the first instance, to repair physical damage resulting 
from a failure to comply with NHBC technical requirements. But for NHBC to consider things 
further under section two of the warranty, they said Mr M and Miss C would need to provide 
evidence of them contacting the developer in the first two years of cover.
Mr M and Miss C have provided a copy of an email to NHBC in which they forwarded this 
information, just before NHBCs final response was issued. However, NHBC confirmed they 
didnt receive it, so Mr M and Miss C forwarded it again after NHBC issued its final response. If NHBC didnt receive it when it was originally sent, then I cant hold them responsible for 
this, as they would be unable to act on information they hadnt received. But even if they had 
received it, NHBC would always have needed time to review things in order to decide the 
next steps.
However, at the point of NHBCs final response on 23 February 2023, as theyd confirmed 
they hadnt received the requested proof from Mr M and Miss C, I dont think they acted 
unreasonably by asking for another copy to be sent, so they could consider next steps under 
section two of the warranty.
There has been some more recent communication between NHBC and Mr M and Miss C 
after they provided another copy. However, I cant consider this as part of this complaint as 
this happened after NHBC issued its final response on 23 February 2023, and NHBC havent 
given a new final response on matters, taking into account this new information. 
I can also see that Mr M and Miss C have also emailed the developer (who took over from 
the previous developer) on 14 March 2023, which is following the next steps NHBC advised 
them to take. If since then Mr M and Miss C havent received a response, they should go 
back to NHBC to see if they can assist further under section two of the cover.
If Mr M and Miss C remain unhappy with the decision that is ultimately reached by NHBC 
about the section two cover, they may be able to raise a new separate complaint with NHBC. 
They then may be able to approach this service again with NHBCs latest final position, 
having taken into account all the additional information they provided, which NHBC didnt 
have when issuing their final response on 23 February 2023. 
However, I should also add, to manage Mr M and Miss Cs expectations, that not all 
activities carried out by NHBC under section two are regulated activities, and that is one of 
the requirements for us to be able to look into a complaint. So, whether we have jurisdiction 
to look into the new complaint would need to be considered if and when that new complaint 
was brought to us.
Based on the above, I dont think NHBC acted unfairly by declining the claim under section 
three of the policy. And I dont think NHBC acted unreasonably by asking for proof of the 
issue being reported to the developer in their final response, to consider next steps under 
section two of the policy.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman