The complaint
Ms K complains about the service she received from Currencies Direct Ltd (CDL) on two 
issues. The first is in respect of delay and the second with regard to their not transferring 
funds when and how instructed as a result of which she lost out by around £560. 
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms K and CDL, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Ms K instructed her bank (S) to transfer funds from her account to her account with CDL. 
Those funds werent received by CDL until the 10 July, some 3 days later. CDL then passed 
them on to Ms Ks solicitor as instructed the same day, and in time to allow her to complete 
on a property purchase. CDL have rejected Ms Ks complaint on this issue arguing that they 
have no control over S and as such any delay has not been caused by them. Further having 
received the funds on the 10 July, they dealt with them that day and in accordance with the 
terms of their agreement with Ms K.
A few days later Ms K sent CDL 57,000 EUR, which was converted to GBP, with the 
intention of purchasing a vehicle for her daughter. When that purchase did not proceed Ms K 
wanted to transfer the funds to a friend but CDL said they couldnt, and so the funds were 
returned to the originator bank account incurring a loss of £560.38 on exchange back to 
EUR. CDL didnt accept that it had done anything wrong and that the loss incurred was the 
effect of an adverse currency market change.
Ms K was unhappy with CDLs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having 
done so, concluded that CDL hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint 
fairly. Ms K didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have considered 
both sides views in considering whether CDL acted fairly and reasonably. Ive looked at the 
issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must make an independent 
DRN-1651872decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this 
case, I dont think that CDL has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
Ms K became a customer with CDL on the 1 July 2019. CDLs terms and conditions of 
business are available on their website. The evidence produced by CDL shows receipt of 
74,000 GBP on the 10 July at 02:45 and payment out of 82,000 EUR at 09:51. This is 
sufficient evidence to show that CDL were not the cause of any delay in relation to this 
transaction. I understand Ms K instructed her bank to make the transfer some days prior, but 
there was nothing CDL could have done to make the transfer get to them any quicker. As 
such I dont uphold this element of Ms Ks complaint.
In relation to the second transaction, the documentary evidence shows that Ms K sent CDL 
57,000 EUR on the 15 July at 10.45, the purpose for which was to buy a vehicle for her 
daughter. On instruction the money was exchanged to 51,560.38 GBP. Upon the proposed 
vehicle purchase falling through, it is accepted by CDL that on the 22 July Ms K asked them 
to transfer the funds to a friend of hers. CDL told her they could not do that, relying on their 
terms and conditions which provided they had an absolute discretion to refuse to make any 
transfer. CDLs explanation for refusing to facilitate the transfer was because they were 
being asked to transfer funds to a 3rd party without validation. As a result, Ms K returned the 
monies to the account from which they had come, but first had to exchange them back into 
GBP, which caused a loss of £560.38. Ive thought about CDLs decision and I think they 
were entitled to refuse to carry out the transfer as they were following their own policy and 
acting in line with the terms and conditions. I appreciate that Ms K says she was not sent the 
terms and conditions, but they were freely available for her to view on CDLs website.
Ive also looked at the transfer attempts which were made and can see that a transfer 51,000 
GBP was attempted on 23 July but failed, as it did a number of times following. That was 
because the receiving bank kept rejecting the transfer in the absence of a valid reference 
containing the account to which it should be credited. The account which had been provided 
had been Ss holding account details, rather than the specific reference number for her 
account. CDL have said that Ms K failed to provide that information, but when she did 
provide it the transfer went through. Ive looked at the payment evidence provided by CDL 
and that is correct and so it seems that that is the most likely explanation.
So, I cannot say that the delay here was caused by CDL and nor can I say they have been 
at fault for the fact that the exchange rate moved against Ms K, since that is outside of their 
control. The loss which Ms K has incurred is as a result of a less beneficial exchange rate 
which is not the fault of CDL. So, although Ms K will probably be disappointed with my 
decision, I cant say CDL has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Currencies Direct 
Ltd. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman