DRN-1496755
Complaint
Mr S complained he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which he 
purchased together with a M&S Personal Reserve Account, in 1996. 
The company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint is called Allianz 
Insurance plc. Ill therefore refer mainly to "Allianz" throughout this final decision, for 
consistency.  
Background
I understand Mr S has been offered some money back in respect of the commission that 
was obtained by selling him PPI. So I'm just deciding whether the PPI was mis-sold in the 
first place. Our adjudicator has already assessed this complaint and provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr Ss account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet. I absolutely understand that 
Mr S honestly and genuinely doesnt remember either asking for the PPI or being told much 
about it. However, these events are now over 23 years old and weve seen a number of very 
similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around that time. Weve also spoken at length 
to the companies involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally 
used around the 1990s. We know, for example, that consumers were asked to fill out 
an account application which was part of a wider leaflet-based form. The terms and 
conditions of the PPI were included in what the applicant was given to complete. 
We also have the actual credit agreement Mr S filled out when he took out 
the reserve account and there was a section on it about the PPI. Mr S ticked the relevant 
box and entered his date of birth in the PPI section confirming he wanted insurance. He also 
signed the form.
So I think he consented to the PPI cover and would have also seen the PPI charges  on 
his statements or other paperwork. I think if he hadnt agreed to the PPI he would have 
wanted to know what the charges were for and would have been able to have had them 
clarified. The evidence is therefore quite strong that proper consent was obtained.
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means Allianz needed only to provide enough 
clear information for Mr S to decide for himself whether he wanted the PPI cover. I 
acknowledge it could have set out the information about the PPI in a better way, but overall, I do think Mr S probably had access to enough information to allow him to make an informed 
decision. 
Mr S told us he had some sickness protection already with his job, implying he didnt need 
any PPI. I understand why hes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the benefits 
Mr S says he enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. He was 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in some 
of these policies. And the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than for most 
similar accounts. For example, if hed become unable to work or lost his job, the PPI would 
have paid off 15% of his outstanding balance each month until he returned to work or until all 
the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have been in addition to any other 
means Mr S had in place at the time. 
For me to uphold Mr Ss complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that he wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, I can see Mr S did agree to the policy and had access nearby to 
the information he needed about the rules. 
I recognise it is currently a difficult time for consumers and Im sorry to have to give Mr S this 
news. But I'm afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss mis-sale complaint and I dont require 
Allianz Insurance plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman