DRN-3317553
The complaint
Mr G complains Hiscox Insurance Company unfairly declined his insurance claim.
What happened
Mr G and Hiscox have had agents representing them at points during the claim and 
complaint. For simplicity, in places Ive referred to the agents actions or comments as being 
those of Mr G or Hiscox. 
 
In July 2020 Mr G claimed against his Hiscox Private Client Insurance Portfolio policy. He 
believed damage to part of his property had been caused by ground movement. A brick pier 
and sliding doors were leaning outwards and cracks had appeared on the walls. Mr G 
thought the damage should be covered by his policy as subsidence. 
After an initial site visit in August 2020, Hiscox suspected subsidence to be the cause. In 
early September 2020 it told Mr G it had accepted the claim as subsidence, heave or 
landslip. It said it would meet the cost of investigating and repairing the damage. Hiscox 
planned further investigation to identify the cause and necessary mitigation work.  
Mr G was unhappy with the time it was taking Hiscox to arrange further investigations. He 
was worried about the stability of the property, so in October 2020 he instructed his own 
contractors to start the required works. Hiscox said further investigations were required to 
identify the cause of subsidence and any mitigation works. So, it said it couldnt authorise 
any repairs at that point. 
Shortly after, Hiscox sent out a second engineer to inspect Mr Gs property. He considered 
the cause of damage to be an inadequate brick pier - it wasnt strong enough to support the 
weight of the roof. In November 2020 Hiscox wrote to Mr G saying the lateral support for the 
roof was inadequate at the point where the brick column had moved outwards. It concluded 
there was no subsidence, so wouldnt be accepting the claim after all. Mr G wasnt happy 
with that decision, so made a complaint. 
In February 2021 Hiscox responded. It apologised for changing its mind on the claim. It said 
the second engineer had concluded the cause was an inadequate brick pier, with no 
cracking due to subsidence. It said the building may have stood for 20 years, but it remained 
clear the brick pier wasnt strong enough to support the weight of the roof. So, it was of the 
opinion the structure was at risk of failure from the outset. It said the pier wasnt covered, but 
damaged glazing might be. It offered to open a new claim to consider that. 
Hiscox accepted it took too long to progress elements of the claim. It said it would reimburse 
Mr G the costs of any work relating to investigations carried out after it had initially said the 
claim had been accepted. However, it refused to pay for an engineers report Mr G provided, 
saying it was dated before it had initially said his claim had been accepted. In September 
2021 Hiscox, as a gesture of goodwill, offered to reimburse half of the cost of that report.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Hiscoxs response so came to this service in July 2021. Hiscox 
then wrote to him to explain the policy exclusion for faulty workmanship or design applied to 
the claim. But it considered damage to the glazing as resultant so offered to cover it. 
Mr G feels Hiscoxs second engineer didnt do enough investigation into the cause of 
damage. He says ground movement caused by vibration or tremor is the likely cause. He 
asked that Hiscox undertake further investigation of potential ground movement. He says he 
relied on its original acceptance of his claim, paying for repairs as a result. Mr G says Hiscox 
should reimburse him the £45,000 - £50,000 cost. 
In January 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. He felt, on balance, the available 
evidence suggested the damage wasn't subsidence related. So he didn't recommend Hiscox 
accept Mr G's claim. He agreed the insurer had provided poor service. But he thought its 
contribution towards the report costs was enough to recognise the impact of what it had got 
wrong. So the investigator didnt recommend Hiscox do anything differently or pay any 
compensation.  Mr G didnt accept that assessment, so the complaint was passed to me. 
In February 2022 I explained to Hiscox I felt it had failed to appreciate Mr Gs policy provides 
all-risks cover. I said that meant Mr G wasnt required to show loss or damage was caused 
by an insured peril  like subsidence. Instead he simply needed to show there was physical 
loss or damage to his home during the period of insurance. I said I was satisfied he had 
done that. I added if Hiscox wishes to refuse the claim it was required to show it would be 
fair for it to rely on one on the of the policys listed exclusions or conditions to do so.  
In response Hiscox didnt accept or deny the policy being all-risks. However, it said it was 
relying on a faulty workmanship or design exclusion to refuse the claim. It referred to the 
cause of damage being an inadequate pier. Mr G responded to my thoughts on the cover the 
policy provides and Hiscoxs latest position. In summary he said, based on the buildings 
history and opinions of various specialists, theres no reasonable argument for faulty 
workmanship or design being the cause of damage.
In October 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I said work to the roof, in 2000, hadnt been 
shown to have met relevant building standards. Having considered the evidence I was 
persuaded that work had resulted in an inadequate pier design that seemed the most likely 
cause of damage. I said that that meant, in the circumstances, it was fair and reasonable for 
Hiscox to rely on the faulty workmanship and design exclusion to refuse the claim. 
In response Mr G provided a letter from the engineering firm involved in both the 2000 and 
recent post loss designs. It explained the 2000 works were designed in accordance with the 
relevant standards in force at the time. It also denied those works could have resulted in the 
existing pier not being strong enough to support the redesigned roof. It also supported 
Mr Gs claim the reason for a recent post-loss strengthened pier design was for robustness 
against any potential ground movement.  
I said as a result most, if not all, of my reasons for accepting the 2000 roof strengthening 
works to be inadequate had fallen away. So I no longer felt it fair for Hiscock to rely on the 
faulty design or poor workmanship exclusion. I said I intended to require Hiscox to reimburse 
Mr G for the costs of repairing the damage claimed for. I added it should also cover glazing 
damage as part of the claim.
In response to my latest position, and Mr Gs engineers letter, Hiscox clarified its position. It 
explained in its opinion there was insufficient lateral restraint when the building was first 
constructed. It explained the 2000 works were an unsuccessful attempt to resolve the issue. 
It said whilst the building may have stood for a number of years without showing damage, the lack of lateral restraint left it in a vulnerable condition until it more recently showed signs 
of failure. 
Hiscox added this meant the recent pier rebuild and rectification works were required to 
address a pre-existing defective design/construction issue. So it feels the rectification works 
are specifically excluded by the faulty workmanship or design exclusion. 
I explained to Hiscox, and Mr G, that I was persuaded by its submission. Mr Gs engineers 
letter confirms the original issue with the pier was related to outward lateral loading and 
movement. It also says the 2000 work was undertaken to provide increased resistance to 
outward lateral loading via the introduction of steel ties. I said despite this work recent 
photos, for the claim, show the pier leaning outwards. So I said Hiscoxs point that the 2000 
works were ultimately an ineffective solution seems reasonable. As result I again felt it fair 
for it to say the loss results from faulty workmanship or design. 
Id previously explained that this service usually only feels its fair for an insurer to rely on a 
faulty design or poor workmanship exclusion if it can be shown relevant standards havent 
been met - and the failure to meet these standards is the reason for the damage. I noted that 
Mr G had provided building regulations certification for the original works. And that his 
engineer has explained the 2000 works will have been designed in line with relevant 
standards for the time. 
But I explained that in these circumstances, relevant standards met or not, when an attempt 
at addressing a known fault appears to have failed to avert damage further down the line, I 
didnt think it fair or reasonable to say Hiscox couldnt rely on the exclusion. So I no longer 
intended to require Hiscox to reimburse Mr G the costs of repair of the pier. I added that I 
hadnt seen any evidence to persuade me an offer, for £8,000, by Hiscox to cover the 
glazing was insufficient.  
Mr G didnt accept my latest position. He provided a further letter from his engineer, details 
of an increased offer from Hiscox for the glazing and invoices for their replacement.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Hiscox and Mr G have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything 
submitted.
In response to my latest position, summarised above, both Mr G and his engineering firm 
said the 2000 work was successful in preventing further movement. Mr G said the damage 
claimed for in 2019 was consistent with ground movement and foundation failure or impact 
damage.  I must decide what I thinks most likely. I havent seen anything persuasive that 
supports the idea of ground movement or impact damage. 
I note the engineers comments about the pier already leaning in 2000. But based on what 
Ive seen, there seems to have been further movement since then  hence the need to 
rebuild the pier and Mr Gs claim. And without any other persuasive cause it seems most 
likely the 2000 works, to prevent further movement, were unsuccessful. So as set out above 
I feel its fair for Hiscox to rely on the faulty design or poor workmanship exclusion to refuse 
the claim.  Mr G also explained hes recently accepted an increased offer from Hiscox for the resultant 
loss. So I havent considered that element of the claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Hiscox Insurance Company to do anything 
differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman