DRN-3987908
The complaint
In summary, Mr A complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC charged interest on his credit card 
account as a result of how it applied payments and refunded transactions to the account.
What happened
Mr A contacted Lloyds about the payment allocations on his credit card account. Lloyds 
responded to his concerns. It explained why it thought payments had been allocated 
correctly. Although it didnt think any errors had been made, it added another interest waiver 
to his account as a courtesy for the next three months. 
Mr A complained again to Lloyds about how it was charging interest on his statements and 
how merchant refunds were applied to his credit card account. Lloyds wrote to Mr A with its 
response to his concerns in November 2022. It explained that it wasnt upholding his 
complaint. But it refunded the interest charged on his account in September, October and 
November, without acceptance of liability. And it applied a two-month interest waiver to his 
card so that he wouldnt be charged any interest on his December 2022 or January 2023 
statements. 
Mr As concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they didnt 
think Lloyds had done anything wrong. As Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to 
review his case, it has been referred to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and taken into account everything that Mr A and Lloyds have submitted. However, I 
have focussed on matters I consider central to the outcome of Mr As complaint. So, I wont 
address every point that has been raised. No discourtesy is intended, but this reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
I do understand Mr A is concerned that Lloyds may have applied interest on his account 
incorrectly as a result of how it has applied payments and refunds to his account. But Im not 
going to uphold his complaint as I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong. Ill explain 
why.
The terms and conditions of Mr As credit card account explains how it applies payments to 
the account. 
In particular section B7.3 explains that refunds, cashback and credit adjustments to the 
account between the statement date and the payment date will reduce the overall balance. 
B7.4 explains that payments are used to clear any overdue amounts before they are applied 
to the minimum payment. And the amount owed on the account will be reduced in the order 
of:
Any overdue amounts from previous statements; then
The remaining balance on the statement; then
Any recent transactions not yet shown on the statement.
Payments are applied to balances charged at the highest rate of interest first. If there are 
different balances on the account at the same interest rate, they are paid in the order of 
cash, purchases, balance and money transfers, default fees and oldest transactions are paid 
first.
Its understandable that from his perspective, Mr A would prefer for any refund not to reduce 
a balance on his account including any balance transfers. And hes unhappy that any refund 
doesnt cancel the original transaction as he thinks it should. But in applying refunds and 
payments in the way that it has, I believe Lloyds is acting within the terms and conditions of 
the account that I have summarised above. And I dont think that by applying any refund to 
an outstanding balance on the account, it is acting unfairly or unreasonably.
Ive also noted that as a gesture of good will and without acceptance of liability, Lloyds 
refunded the interest on Mr As account for September, October and November 2022. Its 
also applied interest waivers on his account until January 2023. I think that was a generous 
offer for it to have made, given it hadnt done anything wrong, which means Mr A hasnt lost 
out financially.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman