DRN-1289039
 
The complaint
Mr E has complained about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU). He isnt happy that it wouldnt deal with a claim under his commercial motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E made a claim under his commercial insurance policy after he had an incident in his 
horsebox van. Mr E said he had a minor incident hitting overhead trees on the way to a 
horse show. On the way home he noticed that he lost part of the cladding or fibreglass cover 
to the vehicles horsebox on the motorway on the return journey.
But NFU wouldnt pay the claim. This was because it felt the damage was sustained over a 
period of time. The horsebox had suffered water ingress over a long period which led to a 
weakening of the cladding or fibreglass. As Mr E didnt agree he complained to NFU then 
this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold the complaint. Although she 
sympathised with Mr Es position she didnt think NFU had done anything wrong. It had 
looked at Mr Es claim, appointed two independent engineers to look at the damage caused 
and concluded that the damage sustained was most liklely caused by water ingress over a 
long period of time.
As Mr E didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. I know Mr E wont be happy about this, but I think NFU hasnt acted 
unreasonably. Ill explain why. 
As the investigator has explained this service relies on the evidence provided by both sides 
in deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I know Mr E has explained that 
on the way to the event he had to drive onto a grass verge to avoid another vehicle. And in 
doing so he clipped over hanging branches above the vehicle. He believes this caused the 
damage which led to the fibreglass on the side of the horsebox being stripped away when he 
started to get up to speed on the motorway on the return journey.
However, NFU has appointed an investigator to look into the claim and two engineers to 
consider the damage sustained. And its conclusions are clear that water ingress over a 
significant period of time caused the cladding to weaken and then rip away. 
I know Mr E questions the impartiality of the engineers advice as they were paid for by NFU. 
But I havent seen anything to cast doubt on the reports. And Mr E hasnt produced any 
alternative evidence (such as his own engineers report) in support of his position. I note NFU is happy to consider any independent engineer evidence that Mr E may gain, and I 
think that is reasonable. And I would expect it to refund any costs Mr E incurs here if such 
evidence changed the outcome of the claim.
Mr E accepts that there was water ingress but believes this only affected the vehicle 
internally. But, having considered the engineers report and the photos of the vehicle from 
the time of the incident, I think the water ingress had caused a weakening of the cladding or 
fibreglass over quite a period of time. There were areas of damp externally, internally and to 
the plywood directly below the cladding which clearly weakened the structure and there were 
ripples externally to the fibreglass. 
As such, although it is possible that the incident with the over hanging trees may have 
aggravated the damage, I dont think it is unreasonable for NFU to conclude the underlying 
cause was the water ingress. And had the area of cladding not been weakened then it is 
likely that the fibreglass wouldnt have come away when Mr E was on the motorway.
So, I cant say NFU has acted unreasonably in turning down the claim as it was satisfied the 
damage was caused by wear and tear. Indeed, the level of water ingress was clear, and I 
think that an inspection of the vehicle would have quickly identified the potential problem with 
the cladding and the need for repair before the incident. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman