DRN-3253346
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has handled their 
claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had private medical insurance with AXA. They were initially covered by Mr Ds 
corporate policy, however, Mr D cancelled this policy in June 2020. That policy ended on 20 
June and a new personal policy was put in place to effectively continue to provide cover for 
both Mr and Mrs D. 
Three days later, Mrs D saw her GP for a lump on her finger and was referred to a specialist 
privately. She made a claim on the policy, however, she gave the old policy number when 
she called to log it. The referral was authorised by AXA under the old policy and her 
consultation fee was £175. 
Mr and Mrs D then received notification from AXA in September 2020 that it wasnt prepared 
to cover the cost of treatment because this was for a pre-existing medical condition that 
wasnt disclosed at the point of sale. Mr and Mrs D said this was unfair because AXA had 
previously agreed her treatment at an overall cost of £250. 
AXA said it declined the claim because neither Mr D nor Mrs D told it about the lump on her 
finger when they called to arrange the new policy. It said that had it been made aware of 
this, then it wouldve increased the price of the policy to cover the condition. AXA said that 
Mrs D provided the old policy details, which was still showing as active on its systems when 
she called to claim, and that this was the reason authorisation was incorrectly given. AXA 
said its for these reasons, its not responsible for the error, and that it wont pay the claim. 
Our investigator disagreed with AXA and said that it reasonably should have been aware 
that Mrs D gave out of date details when she made the claim. She explained that AXA had 
sold the new personal policy and that the adviser should have realised this. She said that 
because it didnt, AXA gave Mrs D incorrect information, which she acted upon and made 
the decision to have the treatment privately. She said had AXA given correct information 
then its likely that Mrs D would have waited to be treated by the NHS. 
Our investigator also highlighted several service-related issues throughout the claims period 
and said that AXA should pay £100 compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience. She also recommended AXA pay the consultation fee of £175 and the 
additional £75 treatment cost.
AXA didnt accept this. It maintained that Mrs D was also to blame for the mistake, but 
accepted it should have realised the information she gave was for the old policy, and so it 
offered £50 compensation. It also said that Mr and Mrs D were asked clear questions at 
inception about pre-existing medical conditions, particularly whether they intended to seek 
medical advice for any symptoms. AXA explained that Mrs D had the lump on her finger 
since March 2020 and that therefore this should have been disclosed when asked. AXA also 
said the policy excesses were different between the two policies, the old policy was £100 
and the new was £250. It highlighted that the overall cost of this claim was £250  the same 
as the policy excess and so therefore a claim wouldnt have been brought. AXA made clear 
that Mr and Mrs D were sent all the necessary policy documents outlining this and therefore 
doesnt think it needs to do anything more in respect of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D rejected AXAs offer and so its now for me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to think about the information given at the time Mr and Mrs D made their claim. 
I accept that Mrs D gave the old policy number when she called AXA on 23 June to make 
her claim, but, like our investigator, Im still not persuaded by AXAs arguments that this 
means theres an even level of responsibility that would negate AXAs responsibility. I say 
that because I think it reasonable to suggest that AXA ought to have known that Mrs D had 
given incorrect, or out or date information, especially as the new personal policy was active 
and the existing policy should have closed a few days prior. 
I think AXA should have considered the information given more carefully and questioned Mrs 
D about the two policies it seemingly held active at that time. I think this is further supported 
because the old policy was due to end on 20 June, yet, according to AXA, it was still 
showing as active the day Mrs D called to make her claim. Its unclear why that happened 
but I dont think it helped matters here and likely added to the confusion.
Mrs D was given incorrect information about the policy excess being £100, as well as the 
claim being authorised, because of this error. This in turn meant that Mrs D made a decision 
to have the consultation and treatment, totalling £250, because it made sense financially. 
AXAs argument, in summary, is that despite Mrs D giving the old policy number, itd recently 
sent all the new policy details, which outlined the increased policy excess of £250, meaning 
that Mr and Mrs D should have reasonably realised the information AXA gave during the 
claims call was incorrect. But Im less persuaded by this because I think it more reasonable 
to expect that Mrs D rely on the information given during the claims call would have been 
accurate. The same way Id have expected AXA to establish the correct policy details when 
Mrs D called. 
Im also not persuaded by any of the arguments made by AXA in response to this for all the 
reasons given by our investigator. AXA had oversight of Mr and Mrs Ds policy information 
and I think it should have probed more to establish which policy the claim should have been 
set up against. I also note some of AXAs commentary about this being Mr Ds fault for not 
updating Mrs D about the new policy information but I think that argument is slightly 
offensive and inappropriate;
Mr D was given the tools on 5 June 2020 to review his new policy and included within this 
email was the new membership number. Hes admitted to not reviewing this key piece of 
information. Had he done so, he would have provided his wife with the correct membership 
number and contact telephone number in which to make a claim
AXAs made several arguments about setting up the new policy and whether this was a non-
disclosure claim, in other words, whether Mr and Mrs D told it everything about their previous 
medical history prior to setting up the new policy. But Im not persuaded that its central to 
the complaint being considered here. I think this complaint is about whether AXA gave 
correct information during the claims call, which Im satisfied it didnt, and whether this had a material impact on Mrs Ds decision-making that followed, which Im satisfied it has. 
I think its fair to say that had AXA given the correct information to Mrs D, its likely she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the private treatment because the cost was the same as the 
new policy excess. So, Im satisfied by Mrs Ds argument that shed have waited to be 
treated by the NHS. This is further supported by Mrs Ds testimony about her pain levels. 
She explained that although painful, it wasnt unbearable, or at a level that she lost 
functionality. Shed also had the lump for three months prior to seeking medical advice, 
which I think demonstrably shows a low-level pain. And so, I dont think it was a priority in 
terms of treatment and therefore I think, on balance, that Mrs D would have likely waited to 
be treated by the NHS in the circumstances. 
Our investigator recommended that AXA effectively settle the claim under the existing policy 
terms because these were the terms explained to Mrs D during the claims call, and this is 
what prompted her to get treatment. And so, to retrospectively correct the mistake made by 
AXA, would be to Mrs Ds detriment. I agree with the investigators suggestion because I 
think its fair. Ive also not seen any exclusion on the existing policy that would persuade me 
that AXA could have declined this claim fairly. AXA authorised diagnostic treatment during 
the claims call and the consultation. This cost £175 and the actual treatment was £75  
taking the total to £250. AXA should pay this, less the £100 excess it told Mrs D about. Im 
also satisfied that AXA had ample opportunity to consider this as it was recommended by 
our investigator and a rationale provided, however, AXA didnt agree with her findings.  
I agree with the £100 compensation awarded by the investigator because I think the level of 
service AXA provided was poor. I say that because there were several issues throughout the 
claims period, which, although individually relatively small, when considered holistically, 
theyre impactful enough to warrant a compensatory award. The cancellation of the 
corporate policy wasnt done in good time, the misinformation given in the claims calls, the 
unclear change of branding and the embarrassment caused by AXA declining to pay the 
specialists invoice. I feel this is a fair resolution to this complaint.   
My final decision
AXA PPP Healthcare Limited must now pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim of £250, less the £100 
excess. It must also pay the 8% simple interest on this amount and;
Pay Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation for the distress, inconvenience and embarrassment 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman