DRN-3700111
The complaint
Mrs H complains that advice she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard has caused her financial loss. Mrs H is assisted in bringing her complaint by her 
daughter. For ease of reading Ive referred to any actions taken by Mrs H or her daughter as 
having been taken by Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs H used her Barclaycard credit card to pay for a family motorhome holiday overseas. 
Unfortunately, her holiday plans were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, which led to her 
flights being cancelled. She contacted F, the motorhome supplier, who told her that the 
booking was still available but that if she were to cancel at that point she would lose £949 of 
the £2,335 shed paid for the holiday.
Mrs H got in touch with Barclaycard to see whether there was anything it could do to assist 
her. She says Barclaycard advised her not to cancel, and that it would lodge a chargeback 
claim on her behalf. Barclaycard recredited the money to Mrs Hs account. However, the 
credit was subsequently reversed.
When Mrs H sought an explanation, she says Barclaycard told her that it couldnt proceed 
with the chargeback claim, as F had provided a valid defence and said that no refund was 
due. Mrs H complained to Barclaycard, saying that through no fault of her own she was out 
of pocket by £2,335.
In response, Barclaycard said it hadnt made an error in its advice. It said if Mrs H had 
cancelled it wouldnt have been able to successfully claim back any money, whereas not 
cancelling offered the chance that it might be able to assist with recovery, though this wasnt 
guaranteed. Mrs H was unhappy with Barclaycards response and referred matters to us.
Our investigator provided an initial assessment of Barclaycards handling of the chargeback 
claim. She was satisfied the bank had taken reasonable actions to try to recover Mrs Hs 
money by this means, but that ultimately this wasnt successful because the motorhome had 
been available for the period Mrs H had booked. Under the terms of her contract with F, she 
wasnt eligible for a refund. For similar reasons, the investigator didnt think Mrs H would 
have had a successful claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation such that she might 
have brought against Barclaycard under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The investigator noted that Mrs H would have received a partial refund from F had she 
cancelled the booking when she received Barclaycards advice. However, the investigator 
thought it more likely that Mrs H would have sought to pursue a full refund via chargeback 
than to accept a partial refund. So she didnt recommend upholding the complaint.
Mrs H didnt think this was right. She said when she contacted Barclaycard it told her that it 
would cancel the booking and seek a full refund for her, and that it was in her best interests 
to let it sort out matters for her. She also said that Barclaycard had never explained to her 
that there was a possibility she wouldnt get a full refund, assuring her that she was covered 
under Barclaycards purchase insurance. Mrs H asked for this review, as shes entitled to do 
under our rules.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out the events leading up to this complaint, 
and how I thought best to resolve it. I said:
I dont doubt that Barclaycard handled the chargeback claim in line with the card scheme 
rules, or that a successful defence was put forward by F. The circumstances as described 
appear to be consistent with a scenario under which, while Mrs H and her party were 
unable to use the motorhome booking because they couldnt get overseas, that didnt 
amount to a breach of contract or frustration event obliging F to refund her. It follows that, 
even if Barclaycard had considered liability under the connected lender liability provisions 
of section 75, such a claim would be unlikely to succeed.
This, though, isnt Mrs Hs key cause for complaint. Primarily, shes said shes unhappy 
that Barclaycard advised her not to cancel her booking, and that by following that advice 
shes lost all of her money when she might otherwise have been able to get a partial 
refund.
While a bank has no general duty to provide advice in such circumstances, where it 
undertakes to do so (as here), it needs to exercise due skill and care in providing that 
advice. Im not currently satisfied that Barclaycard, in advising Mrs H not to cancel her 
booking, did enough to meet that obligation.
I say this because Mrs H has been clear in saying that Barclaycard didnt make her aware 
of the risk that pursuing a chargeback claim might put her in a worse position than she 
would have been in if shed cancelled when she could have received a partial refund. Mrs 
H says that Barclaycards advice assured her that shed be covered by its protection, and 
on that basis she proceeded with the chargeback rather than cancelling.
Barclaycard appears to accept it gave advice to Mrs H. It submits that its general rule was 
that if a customer cancels they might be held to cancellation terms and lose deposits or 
part thereof. However, if a merchant cancels, customers could receive full refunds. But 
Barclaycard has been unable to provide evidence to support its assertion that in Mrs Hs 
case it probably conveyed this information. It hasnt been able to provide a recording of its 
call with Mrs H, and its also said not all of its staff were trained in dealing with card 
disputes.
In light of this, and the fact that Mrs H has provided her first-hand evidence of how the call 
went, I cant reasonably concur with the banks stance. Ive no reason to doubt the call 
went as described by Mrs H. And that leads me to conclude that the bank failed to exercise 
proper skill and care when advising Mrs H not to cancel her booking with F.
Mrs H cancelling might have damaged her ability to claim via chargeback. But the bank 
had no evidence to suggest that F was planning to cancel Mrs Hs booking, which makes a 
significant difference to the prospect of recovering any money at all via chargeback. The 
advice it gave ought to have contemplated the possibility that cancelling at that time would 
have enabled Mrs H to recover most of her payment, whereas chargeback would only have 
resulted in a better outcome if F cancelled the booking.Had Barclaycard explained this, Im minded to say that I disagree with our investigators 
view that Mrs H would still have proceeded with the chargeback claim. This view doesnt 
seem to be based on anything Mrs H has said; indeed, Mrs Hs own evidence is that she 
would have taken the refund available at that time. Although hindsight is an unavoidable 
aspect informing the position Mrs H has said she would have taken, Im satisfied that if 
Barclaycard had set out the possible outcomes in an appropriate way, its more likely than 
not Mrs H would have sought to mitigate her loss by cancelling with F and recovering 
£1,386.
With this in mind, I think its fair that Barclaycard compensates Mrs H for the loss she 
incurred in following its advice. I also think its appropriate that Barclaycard pays her a 
modest sum of compensation in acknowledgement of the distress she experienced when 
she discovered what had happened. Taking both of these aspects into account, I propose 
to require Barclaycard to pay Mrs H a total of £1,500 in resolution of her complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
response to my provisional decision
Both Mrs H and Barclaycard have accepted my proposed resolution. As a result, Im 
satisfied that it represents an appropriate way to bring the dispute to an end.
My final decision
My final decision, therefore, is that in full and final settlement of this complaint Barclays Bank 
UK PLC trading as Barclaycard pays Mrs H £1,500. It should do so no more than 28 days 
after it receives her acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman