DRN-3996047
The complaint
Mr A has complained that a car he acquired, using finance from BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited, trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (BMWFS), was not of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr A took out a finance agreement with BMWFS, for a six year old, high 
performance used car, with a mileage of over 70,000 miles. 
Mr A has explained that in October 2022, the car broke down and was towed to a local 
garage. The garage diagnosed the cause as a blocked diesel particulate filter (DPF). This 
led to over-fuelling and increased oil levels, which damaged the turbo, the engine, and the 
timing chain. The damage was so severe that the car needs a replacement engine.
Mr A complained to BMWFS, as he felt the car must have been faulty at the point of supply. 
However, BMWFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was no independent evidence 
the car was faulty at the point of sale. It noted that Mr A had only travelled 4,500 miles in a 
year, mostly non-motorway driving, which it felt had caused problems with the DPF.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. In summary, he explained that a DPF warning 
light should have come on, that he shouldnt be penalised for not driving on the motorway, 
and that he shouldnt have to get an independent inspection to support his position because 
the price he paid, time hes had it and driven it, and the make and model of car made it 
obvious it must be faulty.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He noted that Mr A is understandably unhappy that a high-performance 
car like this has failed within a year and 4,500 miles. However, he considered that a six year 
old car which had already covered  over 70,000 miles and was supplied at a significant 
discount to its new price, may develop faults which need major repairs sooner rather than 
later, regardless of make and model. 
Our investigator also considered the way the car was driven, because this has an important 
impact on the DPF. DPFs need to regenerate/empty themselves. He said that problems with 
regeneration have been known to be caused by a sustained stop-start driving style, incorrect 
oil type, incomplete combustion, or a low fuel level.
Mr A said that he cant be penalised for not using a motorway to commute to work. More 
recently though, hes said he commutes to work every day on the motorway. Our investigator 
noted that either way, this wouldnt be enough to get the car to motorway speeds for 40-50 
minutes every few hundred miles to regenerate the DPF. He felt that it was likely that the car 
wasnt driven to the manufacturers specifications.
Our investigator accepted Mr As testimony that there was no warning on the dashboard. 
However, BMWFS would still only be responsible for putting things right if the DPF issues 
were present at the point of supply. He considered that if this had been the case, it wouldve 
manifested itself far sooner.
Mr A disagreed and asked that his complaint be passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint, for the same reasons as the investigator. I 
know this will be very disappointing for  Mr A, and that the matter has caused him significant 
distress. Im very sorry to hear about his personal circumstances. I will explain why Ive 
reached the decision I have. Id also like to assure Mr A that Ive read and considered all of 
his submissions carefully. If I dont comment on something, its not because I havent taken it 
into account. Rather, its because Ive focused on what I consider to be the key points.
Looking at the evidence I have, Im satisfied, on balance, that the car wasnt driven over 
sufficient distance, at sufficient speed, to regenerate the DPF. This is for the same reasons 
as given by the investigator. Unfortunately, this led to catastrophic engine failure.
Im aware that the repairing garage said the car had been driven in such a way as to clear 
the DPF, so there must have been a problem at the point of supply. I dont find this 
persuasive, as the garage would have no actual knowledge of how the car was driven. 
Further, had the issue been there at the point of supply, Id have expected it to manifest far 
sooner than a year later.
Im aware that Mr A feels BMWFS should have commissioned a report. However, as the 
problem arose more than six months after supply, the onus is on Mr A to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and despite my significant sympathy for Mr A, its my final 
decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman