DRN-3555494
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd 
(Vision) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr D is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr D.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 22 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr D with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £202,423.77.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
I understand Mr D first spoke to Vision, about advice regarding his BSPS pension, in 
November 2017.
Vision carried out a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ds circumstances and 
objectives. It noted that he was 37, in good health, married with two financially dependent 
children. He and Mrs D were both employed, and their combined household income 
exceeded their outgoings. Vision said Mr Ds initial thoughts were to retire at age 60 but on 
further consideration he hoped to do so at age 57  the earliest hed be able to based on the 
rules at the time. So, he wanted to keep his options open for retirement and would like a 
more flexible pension. It said he expected to need an income of £1,300 per month in 
retirement. And Mr D had lost faith with his employers handling of the pension and wanted 
to transfer the pension so that it was under his control.
Vision also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced.
On 16 December 2017, Vision advised Mr D to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension with a named provider and invest in one of the providers managed funds. It said it 
thought a transfer was suitable for Mr D as it provided him with the flexibility he was 
interested in and gave him control over how his pension was managed, which he wanted 
given his strong feelings about his employers previous actions. Vision also felt a transfer 
gave Mr D the opportunity to improve his pension benefits and it gave him lump sum death 
benefits, which hed expressed an interest in. Forms were signed the same day to enable 
the transfer in line with the recommendation.
Mr D complained to Vision in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he 
thought a transfer was unsuitable based on his circumstances at the time and should not 
have been recommended as it was unlikely his new pension would be able to match the 
guaranteed benefits that had been given up.
Vision didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said the advice was based on his circumstances 
and stated objectives and opinions at the time. And it said it still considered it to have been 
suitable, as it best met Mr Ds priorities.
Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought the advice was 
unsuitable. He didnt think Mr D was likely to improve on the guaranteed benefits he was 
giving up by transferring. Given how far he was from actually retiring, the Investigator 
thought Mr Ds plans were unlikely to be finalised and so he didnt have a genuine need for 
flexibility. The Investigator didnt think the alternative death benefits provided meant a 
transfer was in Mr Ds interests. And he didnt think control over his pension was necessarily 
a genuine objective of Mr Ds and felt Vision hadnt done enough to address any concerns 
he mightve had about the BSPS2 or the PPF. So, he recommended that Vision compensate 
Mr D for any losses caused by the unsuitable advice and pay him £250 for the distress hed 
incurred. 
Agreement could not be reached and so the complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
In August 2022 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), launched a 
consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress guidance. The FCAs proposed changes 
were due to come into effect in April 2023. Mr Ds representative confirmed that hed prefer 
to have redress calculated under the new rules when they came into effect.
Following this, Vision said, in order to conclude the matter, it would accept the Investigators 
findings and would carry out the relevant redress calculation.
The FCA has developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator. And Vision wrote to Mr D and 
said it had now carried out a loss assessment using the FCAs redress calculator and 
enclosed a copy. It said, having done so, the calculation showed that Mr D had not incurred 
a financial loss and so he was not owed any redress. Vision confirmed though that it would 
pay the £250 for distress, recommended by out Investigator. A copy of this correspondence 
was provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr D was asked to confirm whether he has accepted this offer. But no response was 
provided by the deadline given. So, Ive assumed Mr D has not accepted the offer and as a 
final decision has previously been requested, Im now providing it in order to resolve the 
matter.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive outlined above, Vision informed us more recently that it accepted the Investigators 
view and has made an offer in line with what was recommended, in order to draw the matter 
to a close. As the suitability of the advice is therefore not in dispute any longer, I will focus in 
this decision on the redress method.
Our intention when awarding redress is to put a consumer, as far as possible, into the 
position they would be in but for an error having happened. And the aim of redress here is to 
put Mr D back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had he remained 
in the DB scheme. Vision carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS calculator provided 
by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by Vision which are personal to Mr D. These 
include Mr Ds personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ds case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr D has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
Vision has still offered to pay £250 as recommended by our Investigator for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused Mr D.
I think the calculation carried out by Vision is appropriate in the circumstances, and is in line 
with what I wouldve recommended and no redress for financial losses is due to Mr D. While 
the loss assessment has determined that Mr D hasnt been financially disadvantaged by the unsuitable advice, I accept that finding out the advice may not have been suitable  
particularly given the circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this 
advice  is likely to have caused him some concern. And that this will have caused him 
worry, whilst the matter remained unresolved. But I think Visions offer to pay Mr D £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I consider that Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd has taken appropriate steps to 
address Mr Ds complaint, appropriately carried out a redress calculation and made a fair 
and reasonable offer to settle things.
To put things right I require Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd to pay Mr D £250 for 
the worry this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman