DRN-1440387
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained about several aspects of a claim he made under his motor insurance 
provided by Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) following his car being written off.
Many of Mr Rs complaint points were investigated previously by our service, so I am unable 
to consider them again.
The complaint points I have considered in this decision are:
Following Mr Rs car being written off he was unable to bid on it when it went to 
auction.
Mr R being asked to return a hire car when the replacement car wasnt suitable for 
his needs.
What happened
Mr R made a claim under his motor insurance following an accident. While the damage to Mr 
Rs car was being assessed it was RSAs responsibility to provide him with a courtesy car. 
As RSA was unable to provide Mr R with a car that suited his needs during this period it 
arranged a more suitable hire car.
Following an assessment of Mr Rs car it was found to be uneconomical to repair and was 
therefore written off. Mr R explained he wanted to keep the car but RSA said it wasnt 
possible to buy the car back directly from it, if Mr R wanted to keep the car he would have to 
do this via the salvage agent who would be auctioning the car. This process included 
registering to bid on the car and taking part in the auction itself.
On 12 July 2019 Mr R ordered a new car from the same scheme that provided his previous 
car.
By 17 September 2019 Mr Rs replacement car was available, although as adaptations were 
required to suit Mr Rs needs a collection date for the car was arranged for 4 October 2019. 
Mr R explained this date wasnt suitable for him to return the hire car due to pre-arranged 
plans. But RSA said it was unable to leave the hire car in Mr Rs possession when his new 
car was available to collect.
Unfortunately, Mr R has also been involved in a second accident that has worsened his 
conditions making his new replacement car unsuitable for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have only looked at the complaint points that have not been previously considered by this 
service.Mr R being able to buy the car back
RSA was responsible for covering Mr Rs loss under his policy. RSA did this by making a 
payment for the market value of the car. This aspect of Mr Rs complaint has previously 
been considered, so I cant look at this again.
Following Mr Rs car being declared a total loss it was transferred to a salvage agent. This is 
common practice especially when the insurer feels the damage is significant. As the car then 
became the property of the salvage agent its reasonable that Mr R would need to buy the 
vehicle back using the salvage agents usual methods, which on this occasion was auction.
I understand Mr R feels RSA blocked him from buying the car as he was unable to place 
bids for it online. But the salvage agent is a separate company to RSA and I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest RSA intervened with the sales process. With online auctions there 
are many things that can go wrong technically, and I am unable to hold RSA responsible for 
Mr R not being able to bid for the car.
Car provision 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs motor insurance policy and what it was 
responsible for providing. 
Mr Rs policy, like most other motor insurance policies, provides provision for a replacement 
car while the insured car is being assessed and/or repaired. Once a car is considered to be  
a write off, and repairs are not being carried out the provision or a replacement car is no 
longer available.
This is a very common term in most motor insurance policies and considered to be fair.
I can see that on request of the scheme provider an alternative vehicle was provided to Mr R 
while his new car was being arranged, although this additional benefit is not something 
covered under Mr Rs policy. So, even if the car didnt completely meet his needs I wouldnt 
be able to ask RSA to do anything more than it did.
I understand Mr R was involved in a second accident after his replacement car was ordered. 
This caused his medical conditions to worsen, and his new car to no longer be suitable for 
his needs. This would have had a major impact on Mr Rs daily life. I have thought about 
this, but the second accident took place some time after his new car was ordered, and there 
is no provision under his insurance to replace the new car I am unable to ask RSA to take 
any action in response to this.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman