DRN-2290674
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mrs B under a hire purchase agreement that she electronically 
signed in June 2019. She returned it to the dealer for a service less than six months later 
and she says that she told it about a knocking noise. She was advised that the cars brake 
disc and pads needed to be replaced and that bearings in the crankshaft had failed. 
Mrs B complained to MotoNovo Finance and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert in December 2019 and a number of issues with it were found. The 
dealer offered to replace the cars rear brake discs  but only once Mrs B had arranged for 
its auxiliary belt to be replaced. Mrs B wasnt satisfied with MotoNovo Finances response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought that the car 
should be repaired and that MotoNovo Finance should pay Mrs B £250 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience and refund 15% of her monthly payments for four months. 
MotoNovo Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that the cars mileage was around 37,000 miles but it was first registered in 2013 and 
second-hand cars dont come with the same guarantees as new cars. It says that its relied 
on the expert opinion of an independent engineer who confirms that the dealer is only liable 
for the brakes and that it isnt liable for the other issues. It agrees that those issues require 
further investigation but that is to deduce the root cause and not where the liability lies. It 
believes that its acted fairly and reasonably and relied on expert opinion to reach its 
conclusion.
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs B 
and to MotoNovo Finance on 1 October 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mrs B was six years old, had been driven for 34,288 
miles and had a price of £5,888.98;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Mrs B in June 2019 and she returned it to the dealer for a 
service less than six months later and she says that she told it about a knocking 
noise;
she was advised that the cars brake disc and pads needed to be replaced and that 
bearings in the crankshaft had failed  so she complained to MotoNovo Finance;
it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in December 2019 
when its mileage was recorded as being 37,788  so the car had been driven for 
3,500 miles since it was supplied to Mrs B;
the inspection report said that: the brake discs had moderate corrosion; the 
auxiliary belt was in a highly deteriorated condition; upon starting there was an 
evident strong smell of fuel; and after approximately 20 seconds of vehicle running 
a bottom end knock became apparent;
the report concluded that the brake discs required replacement, the auxiliary belt and 
fuelling systems required immediate attention and the auxiliary belt also required 
replacement  it also said that the car required investigating under workshop 
conditions  but it said that: taking into consideration the time and mileage elapsed 
since finance inception we consider, on the balance of probability, the faults would 
not have been present at that time although the rear discs would have been 
developing at that time;
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a car of this age, mileage and price to 
have so many issues within six months of being supplied to Mrs B and after shed 
only driven it for 3,500 miles  so I consider it to be more likely than not that the car 
wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for her to expect it to be and that, for that 
reason, it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her;
I understand that some repairs have been made by the manufacturer but Mrs B says 
that the manufacturer has told her that she cant make more claims under the cars 
warranty - she says that shes asked to reject the car and that there are further 
issues with it;
the dealer said that it would pay for the rear brake discs to be replaced (but only once 
Mrs B had arranged for the auxiliary belt to be replaced) and the dealer and 
MotoNovo Finance have been given an opportunity to repair the other issues with the 
car but havent done so; and
the investigator recommended that the car should be repaired but I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mrs B to be able to reject 
the car;
and I described the actions that I would be recommending MotoNovo Finance to take. So, 
subject to any further representations by Mrs B or MotoNovo Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Mrs B has accepted my provisional decision but MotoNovo Finance hasnt responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As MotoNovo Finance hasnt responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions that I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I consider that MotoNovo Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected. The agreement shows that Mrs B paid a cash deposit of £200 for the car and that she part-exchanged a car with a value of £150. I consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to refund £350 to Mrs B, with interest.
Mrs B was able to use the car for nearly six months and to drive 3,500 miles in it by 
December 2019 (though she says that she only drove 2,900 miles) and I understand that the 
cars mileage had increased to 39,870 by July 2020  so the car has been driven for more 
than 5,500 since it was supplied to Mrs B. I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mrs B to 
pay for the use that shes had from the car and, in these circumstances, I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to keep the monthly payments that shes made 
under the agreement as payment for the use that shes had from the car. 
Ive seen no evidence to show that MotoNovo Finance has recorded any adverse 
information about the agreement on Mrs Bs credit file  but I consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for it to remove any information about the agreement that its recorded on 
her credit file.
These events have caused distress and inconvenience for Mrs B. I consider that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay her £250 to compensate her for 
that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I order MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected  both at no 
cost to Mrs B.
2. Refund to Mrs B the £350 deposit and part-exchange value that she contributed to 
the cost of the car.
3. Pay interest on those amounts at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4. Remove any information about the agreement that its recorded on Mrs Bs credit file.
5. Pay £250 to Mrs B to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Mrs B a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman