DRN-2422897
The complaint
Mr C complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) regarding him 
exceeding his credit limit and how this has impacted upon him. He wants Virgin to remove 
the negative credit marker from his credit file. 
What happened
Mr C held a Virgin credit card with a credit limit of £25,000. In January 2020 his balance 
stood at around £24,680. 
His statement was generated on 16 January 2020 and interest was calculated and added to 
his balance. This took his balance over his limit to around £25,112. 
Mr C notes that he received a text message from Virgin alerting him that he was over his 
credit limit and that he needed to make a payment to bring the balance back within his limit. 
Mr C had a direct debit payment set up for 5 February 2020, which would bring him back 
within his limit. He therefore relied on that payment and did not make any additional payment 
in the interim. 
Virgin reported to credit reference agencies that Mr C had exceeded his limit. 
Mr C subsequently has found that his credit rating has severely decreased and he can no 
longer access preferential rates for balance transfers on his high credit balance. 
He complained to Virgin. He said that he had not been aware that interest could take a 
consumer over their limit, and he felt that more should have been done to help him, given 
the impact upon his credit file from going over his limit. 
Virgin sent him its final response in May 2020. It did not uphold his complaint and relied 
upon its terms and conditions. It also pointed to a letter, sent to him on 18 January 2020, 
which stated that he needed to make an immediate payment and that Virgin shares 
information with credit reference agencies about the way the account is managed. 
Mr C was not happy with that response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and has set out his view to the parties. 
This was that Virgin had acted in line with its terms and conditions and had done nothing 
wrong. 
Mr C has not accepted that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Cs feeling about the severity of the effect that this has had on him, and that 
he has gone from having an excellent credit rating to being unable to access preferential 
rates. He feels that the business should have done more to make him appreciate the 
seriousness of not making immediate payment to mitigate these severe effects. 
Whilst I understand this, we have to look at whether the business has acted fairly and 
reasonably. This necessarily involves considering whether they have complied with the 
terms that both parties agreed to in respect of the credit card. 
As my colleague explained, these terms make clear that interest will be added on the 
statement date and that exceeding ones credit limit will be reported to credit reference 
agencies. 
Mr C has acknowledged that Virgin sent him a text message at the time, and Virgin has 
demonstrated that it wrote to him reiterating that it would report on the way he managed his 
account to credit reference agencies. At least one of these methods reached Mr C and I 
think they were a reasonable attempt to inform Mr C. 
Mr C has suggested that, given his previous record, Virgin should have done more to help 
him than it had agreed to do. I do not agree. It is the consumers responsibility to manage 
their account within the limits, and to respond to communication, as per the terms that they 
agreed to. To expect a different level of service from that agreed, depending on the potential 
effect to the consumer, would create a variety of unfair approaches for different consumers. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr C, I agree with the investigators view and do not think that 
Virgin has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not ask Clydesdale 
Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman