DRN-3409941
The complaint
Mr D and Miss S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt settled a claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Miss S booked a trip abroad in January 2020. The trip was due to start in 
September 2020. They bought an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 12 March 
2020. The policy period was between 9 April 2020 and 8 April 2021. The insurer was Great 
Lakes.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic. 
And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
international travel. This advice was in place at the time Mr D and Miss S were due to start 
their trip, and their intended destination wasnt exempt from this advice. So, Mr D and Miss S 
cancelled their trip and made a claim for their costs to Great Lakes.
Great Lakes declined Mr D and Miss S claim. It said that the policy did provide cancellation 
cover if the FCDO declared their destination unsafe to visit and advised against all travel or 
all but essential travel. But it said that the policy excluded cover for any epidemic or 
pandemic as declared by the WHO  this was set out in the general policy exclusions.
Mr D and Miss S didnt agree with Great Lakes decision to decline their claim. In summary, 
they say that:
the exclusion isnt clear or prominent enough in the policy documents;
the heading of the exclusion is misleading because the heading doesnt include 
pandemic;
Great Lakes shouldve notified them of the impact of Covid-19 on their policy, as per 
regulatory guidance.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Great Lakes had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in relying on the exclusion to decline Mr D and Miss S claim. Our 
investigator said that there hadnt been any change in the policy terms due to Covid-19  
rather, the exclusion Great Lakes relied on was an existing one. 
Our investigator also referred to a definition of a pandemic which was an epidemic occurring 
worldwide, or over a very large area, crossing international boundaries and usually affecting 
a large number of people. So, he didnt think Great Lakes had acted unreasonably in the 
way the exclusion was set out.
Overall, our investigator didnt think there was anything more Great Lakes needed to do at 
the time in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Miss S didnt agree with our investigators findings, and they explained why in 
detail. Fundamentally, they say that had Great Lakes explained the impact of Covid-19 on 
their policy, they wouldve been able to either cancel their policy and take out another one, 
move the dates of their trip, or cancel the trip with reduced costs.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision in March 2022. Heres what I said:
Mr D and Miss S have made detailed submissions in support of their complaint. I have 
summarised the key points, but I have read and considered everything theyve said in detail. 
But Im only required to address points that I think are material to the outcome of the 
complaint, and thats what Ive done here.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr D and Miss S complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr D and Miss S cancelled their trip because of the FCDO advice 
against travel due to Covid-19. And its not in dispute that their policy includes the following 
general exclusion:
D. We will not pay for any loss, damage, cost or expense directly or indirectly caused by:
12. Epidemic
any epidemic or pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation
What is in dispute is if Great Lakes has fairly relied on this exclusion, and if it shouldve done 
more to highlight the exclusion, and its impact, to Mr D and Miss S.
Firstly, the policy terms and conditions which Great Lakes have used to assess Mr D and 
Miss S claim are dated 2019. So, there was no change in the terms due to Covid-19 which 
affected their claim. I dont think the above exclusion was significant or unusual around the 
time Mr D and Miss S bought their policy. So, I dont think Great Lakes needed to highlight it 
in the policy documents. It was up to Mr D and Miss S to satisfy themselves that the policy 
theyd purchased met their needs. 
That said, Ive thought about the fact that Mr D and Miss S bought their policy a day after the 
WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic. But I dont think its unreasonable that Great Lakes 
didnt notify Mr D and Miss S specifically about any potential impact of Covid-19 on their 
policy when they bought it, as the WHO declaration had only been a day before. It also didnt 
change anything for Mr D and Miss S  they were never covered for losses or costs due to a 
pandemic.
Ive considered the regulatory guidance Mr D and Miss S have referred to. It may be that 
Great Lakes shouldve notified them about the potential impact of Covid-19 on their policy 
later on, but this still didnt change anything for Mr D and Miss S. This is because the policy 
already included an exclusion for pandemics declared by the WHO. There were no changes 
to the policy in this regard, and I think the exclusion is clear on whats excluded.
Im also mindful that Mr D and Miss S have said they read the cancellation section of the 
policy when taking it out and thought that theyd be covered if the FCDO advice changed. 
They also said that had the general exclusion section included a heading in bold which said 
pandemic, they wouldve seen this and not taken out the policy.I dont think the heading of the exclusion is misleading  as our investigator explained, the 
internationally accepted definition of a pandemic includes an epidemic. And in any event, the 
exclusion itself is clear that both epidemics and pandemics are excluded.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D and Miss S, but I currently dont think Great Lakes has done 
anything wrong by relying on the above policy exclusion to decline their claim.
For completeness sake, I also note that Mr D and Miss S policy period didnt start until 
9 April 2020. So, their cancellation cover didnt start until that date. And the reason for 
cancellation was the change in FCDO advice on 17 March 2020 which remained in place 
when Mr D and Miss S were due to travel. That means there was no change in FCDO advice 
to their intended trip destination during the policy period.
Overall, I currently dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining 
Mr D and Miss S claim in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes responded to my provisional decision saying it didnt have anything further to 
add. Mr D and Miss S responded saying they were disappointed and disagreed with my 
provisional decision. In summary, they said that:
they struggled to see how the exclusion wasnt significant when they bought the 
policy;
the insurer shouldve made all policyholders aware that the policy wouldnt pay out as 
a result of Covid-19, which wouldve allowed them to find another policy;
an epidemic and a pandemic are fundamentally different things, and the heading of 
the policy wording is misleading.
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr D and Miss S have said. But they havent raised anything 
fundamentally new  I had already considered these points before I reached my provisional 
decision.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the relevant exclusion was significant 
or unusual around the time Mr D and Miss S bought their policy. There were also many 
policies on the market at the time that included a similar exclusion. 
I also explained what I thought about Great Lakes needing to notify Mr D and Miss S about 
the impact of Covid-19 on their policy. And I explained why I didnt think the heading of the 
exclusion was misleading, and that I thought the exclusion itself was clear. 
Overall, it was for Mr D and Miss S to satisfy themselves that the policy theyd purchased 
met their needs.
Having considered everything again, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision. That means Ive reached the same decision, and for the same 
reasons.Taking everything into account, I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
declining Mr D and Miss S claim in the circumstances of this complaint. This is because I 
dont think the claim is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy, and I dont think 
there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to pay their 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr D and 
Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman