DRN-4443091
The complaint
Miss S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc provided her with poor customer 
service, which resulted in her being without access to her funds for two weeks.
What happened
Miss S says that she upgraded her mobile phone on 5 February 2023, and because of this 
NatWest requested that she had to re-enter all of her login details to her banking application 
(app), however, these details were rejected, and she was locked out of her account. Miss S 
says she tried another way to get into her account through NatWests website, which 
generated an activation code, and displayed a message to say an activation code would be 
received in the post in three working days. But when Miss S received the code it didnt work, 
so Miss S rung NatWest, who sent her another code, but this also didnt work. 
Miss S says she spoke to NatWest call handlers several times and they did not provide her 
with any help despite her not having access to her funds, as the codes they sent her did not 
work. She says that one call handler sent a Personal Identification Number (PIN) for her joint 
account and not her sole account, one staff member did not call her back at the time she 
was promised, and due to the distress this was causing her, a manager spoke to Miss S and 
he said he would arrange some funds for Miss S for her on that day (17 February 2023), and 
he said he would call back and keep her updated, but the manager never rang her back. 
Miss S says that the call handler who should have rung her earlier that day rang her four 
hours after the promised call back, and she acknowledged there was an error that when a 
new activation code was generated, it would void the previous codes, which Miss S had five 
sent out to her. Miss S says that she only gained access to her account on 18 February 
2023, and she detailed the affect that this had on her health and her personal 
circumstances, being without access to her funds and having poor customer service. Miss S 
made a complaint to NatWest. She also complained about not being able to link her new 
debit card to a payment service provider.
NatWest upheld Miss S complaints and the two final response letters said they paid her £50 
each. They said Miss S was not eligible for the service to link her debit card to a payment 
service provider and that she could try again in the future as eligibility is reviewed monthly. 
NatWest said they should have handled things better. Miss S brought her complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator upheld Miss S complaint. She said it was clear that this has been difficult 
and a frustrating time for Miss S as she was left without access to her account for 
approximately two weeks. So she said NatWest should pay Miss S a further £75 for distress 
and inconvenience and £25 for a late nursery fee Miss S incurred and for them to pay 8% 
simple interest on the date Miss S was charged this until the date of settlement. 
Miss S asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she was unable to 
access her online account for over two weeks, and she was unable to see credit and debits 
on her accounts. She said while she could use money through a third party e-money 
provider during this time, she could not physically go into a shop and purchase even basic 
essentials because she had no working debit card, and she was unable to use a third party 
payment processing service NatWest offered. She detailed how this affected her personally 
and her health, and she said the compensation should be higher.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us  including her personal circumstances and everything that shes said 
about her health and the impact of NatWests actions has had on her health. I wont be 
documenting these specific issues in great detail in this decision to help protect her identity, 
but I can assure her Ive read everything she has said and Ive taken this into account when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable here. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
Ive listened to a number of phone calls that Miss S had with NatWest. The first call I listened 
to was from 9 February 2023. On this call, Miss S details her issues with logging in online 
banking, and an activation code being sent out, but it doesnt work. She mentions she is late 
paying her nursery fees, and she has bills to pay. She says she is desperately needing 
access to her funds. The call handler tells Miss S that she cant do anything until Miss S 
enters the activation code, Miss S asks what she can do, and the call handler says theres 
nothing they can do. Miss S asks again if there is nobody else she can speak to and asks if 
she can speak to a manager, but the call handler tells her that while she isnt a manager, 
she is one of the most experienced people there. 
Miss S says there was two activation codes sent out so she asks which one should she use. 
The call handler tells her to wait until tomorrow and to give them a call and if that doesnt 
work there will be one coming the following day or Saturday. She says she cant tell if there 
was one definitely sent out. Miss S is audibly upset with the process and tells the call 
handler she is a vulnerable customer, and she is unable to pay her bills. She asks what can 
be done for vulnerable customers and she asks to speak to somebody higher. A call back is 
arranged for the call handlers manager to ring Miss S. But it does not appear that Miss S got 
a call back, therefore she rang NatWest again on 11 February 2023.
Ive listened to this call also. Miss S received a new activation code that morning. She tells 
the call handler that shes unable to pay her bills. Miss S becomes audibly distressed by 
recapping what has happened. The call handler tries to talk Miss S through the activation 
process. He tells her that the previous call handler should have explained the process to her, 
and Miss S tells the call handler she is unable to move money across her accounts. Miss S 
registers for the online banking and the call handler says he will put Miss S on hold to see if 
he can access this on his end. 
When the call handler returns he says Miss S will need to ring back when she gets the 
details through the post. Miss S asks to make a complaint about the previous call handler, 
and she asks the call handler to order her a PIN for her debit card. The call handler asks if 
he wants her to send her a new card and a new PIN. She says she doesnt want a new card 
as the card is set up for online shopping, so she doesnt want to order a new card until she 
receives an activation code (that works). The call handler says he is arranging a PIN 
reminder to be sent to Miss S, and it would be processed the following working day. 
Miss S rings NatWest on 14 February 2023, and she tells the call handler shes really desperate to get the problem sorted that day. She recaps what has happened to the call 
handler. She tells the call handler she has a late fee for nursery fees as shes been unable to 
access her account. Miss S tells the call handler the impact on her mental health that this 
has had on her. The call handler explains that what appears to have happened is that when 
the activation code fails, it appears a new code is sent out to her, but because codes have 
been sent out on 5/8/9/11 February 2023, it appears Miss S was entering codes which were 
inactive while awaiting a new activation code  which then prompted another code to be 
sent. 
Miss S is audibly distressed and breaks into tears. She tells the call handler she has bills to 
pay and pleads with the call handler to help her, unlike the other call handlers. The call 
handler says she will speak to her manager to see if she can speed things up. Miss S tells 
the call handler she is unable to pay for the nursery fees. She tells the call handler that her 
card is blocked also. The call handler suggests ways how she may be able to pay for the 
nursery fees by using someone elses card to make the payment if she had the sort code 
and account number for them. The call handler goes on to say that they cant get her back 
online today as they cant override their security system. 
The call handler suggests that if she needs to move money from her account into her joint 
account (so the joint account holder can pay for bills), then they can do that over the phone. 
The call handler then focuses on the blocked card. Miss S asks the call handler can she 
make a payment to her friend as she was unable to pay her for the night before. The call 
handler says shes unable to, as she can only transfer between Miss S accounts.
The call handler suggests Miss S may have a fault on her chip on the card. She also tells 
Miss S that the PIN reminder was sent for the joint account card, not the sole account card. 
The call handler explains that the activation code Miss S gave her was the one issued on 9 
February, so she needed to wait for the one which was issued on 11 February for this to 
work. The call handler says she will pay Miss S a £50 goodwill gesture for what has 
happened so far. And she will pay this into her sole account. Ive checked Miss S sole 
account statement and I can see she did make this payment of compensation. This is 
separate to the other 2 x £50 compensation payments NatWest paid her. The call handler 
tells Miss S that she can call her back about 11:30am the following morning to see if she has 
the code, to save her discussing this with another call handler. 
This call appears to be on 14 February 2023. But the next call Ive listened to was on 17 
February 2023. Miss S tells the call handler she was expecting a call at 10am that morning. 
While the call handler said 11:30am and not 10am, it does appear that given Miss S rung 
NatWest on 14 February, the call handler should have rung Miss S at 11:30am on 15 
February 2023, but she still hadnt had the call back by 17 February 2023. She told the call 
handler she is in financial hardship, and she has no access to money. 
Miss S is audibly distressed, and she is in tears. The call handler tells her she will try the 
activation code with her dated 12 February over the phone with her. Miss S tells the call 
handler about her mental health, and she indicates what she will do if the code doesnt work. 
She gives the call handler the code, and the call handler tells her the code has worked, and 
they need to set up a new PIN for telephone and online banking, and a password. But the 
security characters do not work, and the system tells her that she cannot complete her 
registration. 
Miss S is very distressed at this point. The call handler tells her the phone number had been 
updated and it will take 72 hours to filter through. The call handler mentions ringing back the 
next day as this will be when the information is updated. Ive heard the impact this had on 
Miss S. I wont go into detail what she said in reaction to this, but due to the concerns the 
call handler had about what Miss S told her she may do, she reassured Miss S not to take any action and she would get a manager to speak to her. 
The manager speaks to Miss S. She tells the manager the impact that this has had on her 
and her family, including not being able to pay for the nursery fees. She tells him that she 
needs to pay £25 for the nursery fees due to what NatWest have done. She tells the 
manager she is unable to pay for food for her family and put petrol in her car. She questions 
why a previous call handler updated her phone number if she knew it would prevent her from 
accessing her online banking. 
The manager places Miss S on hold while he sees what he can do for Miss S, and the 
original call handler checks that Miss S is ok to continue to hold at times while the manager 
is looking for ways to help her. The call handler says that the manager was speaking to 
another department and that the manager would give Miss S a call back in half an hour, as 
they are trying to arrange some emergency cash for her, and the call ends with Miss S 
confirming her telephone number, which the call handler confirms they have that number on 
file. The call handler says she will try and check in on Miss S at some point today as well.
But Ive seen no evidence that the manager called Miss S in the half an hour that she was 
told he would call. It does not appear he called her back at all, and neither did the call 
handler who said she would try and check in with Miss S, despite them both being fully 
aware of the impact of her situation. Miss S says she did receive a call later in the day from 
the call handler who promised to call her previously, who said she was unable to ring when 
promised as she was training, but it was only on the following day that I can see that Miss S 
was able to access her online banking.
I can see that NatWest paid Miss S £50 on three occasions for her complaints she made 
here. On 14 February 2023, she was paid £50 into her sole account, and NatWest have 
provided evidence that they paid her £50 on both 24 February and 7 March 2023 to her joint 
account. So she has received £150 for her complaints here. Our investigator suggested that 
Miss S should receive a total of £200 compensation - £175 for distress and inconvenience 
and £25 for the late nursery fee. 
While Ive not seen any evidence of the late nursery fee, I heard Miss S tell NatWest on the 
phone that she has to pay the nursery £25 because of their errors. NatWest did not dispute 
our investigators view of Miss S complaint about them paying her £25 for this, so I think it is 
fair that they should still pay this. 
Our investigator did suggest 8% simple interest to be paid on the £25 from the date that she 
was charged £25 to the date of settlement. Our service may award an interest payment if a 
customer has been deprived of their money. But while Miss S did not have access to her 
online banking during this period, her statements show that her money wasnt restricted, as 
she did have access to this  but not through all of the channels she wanted. A call handler 
did offer to move money to her joint account, to enable the other joint account holder to 
make payments on her behalf. So I cant reasonably say she was deprived of her money, 
and therefore I wont be asking NatWest to pay interest on the £25 payment.
But thats not to take away from any of the impact this had on Miss S. Im not persuaded that 
the £175 for distress and inconvenience does reflect the impact of the events had on Miss S. 
I say this because although the issues didnt last for several weeks and Miss S could make 
certain payments via a e-money provider through her account, NatWest let Miss S down 
several times over these two weeks. 
It appears that every person she spoke to over these two weeks at NatWest let her down in 
one way or another. Im satisfied that if the first call handler took control of the situation, then 
this could have saved Miss S a lot of distress in the following week and a half. But instead, she identified herself as being one of the most experienced people there, but she didnt offer 
to help move money for Miss S, she didnt realise the activation codes didnt work due to the 
time it took Miss S to receive them, she didnt offer emergency money despite Miss S 
position, she didnt escalate the call higher when Miss S asked her to, and she didnt 
successfully arrange the call back that she promised Miss S from a manager.
While the next call handler appeared to be more helpful, he sent out the PIN reminder for the 
wrong card which added to the distress Miss S experienced. The following call handler said 
she would ring back the following day at 11:30am, but it doesnt appear that she rung Miss S 
back until two days after she promised, and this was on an afternoon and not the morning. 
The call handler had amended Miss S number slightly on the system which caused 
problems for the call on 17 February, as this prevented the online banking activation, which 
led to Miss S being very audibly distressed, and my understanding is that authorities were 
contacted to check on Miss S. 
The call handler on 17 February said she would try and ring Miss S back, and while she 
didnt guarantee that she would, given the condition Miss S was on the phone, it would have 
been proportionate for her to either not say this to Miss S or to ring her back. And the 
manager who promised her a call back in half an hour let Miss S down as he set an 
expectation that they may be able to resolve the issue for Miss S and arrange for her to 
access emergency money.
So Im persuaded that a total of £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience along 
with the £25 for the nursery fee is more proportionate for the issues that Miss S raised 
across her complaints. As she has already been paid £150 (3x£50), then Im satisfied that 
NatWest should pay her another £350 (to total £500) for distress and inconvenience and £25 
for the nursery fees. 
When thinking of fair compensation, Ive factored in Miss S personal circumstances. From 
the very first phone call she told NatWest she was vulnerable, yet the call handler did not act 
on this information. Miss S was unable to withdraw cash to pay for essential items in 
physical shops. And while she could pay for certain things through an e-money account, she 
would be unable to complete all of her transactions this way. Her vulnerability was made 
clear to NatWest over the several calls she had with them. 
It was only later on that Miss S was offered to transfer funds to the joint account on the 
phone and to be told they had an emergency cash process (albeit nobody actioned this for 
her). Miss S took the actions she was told by call handlers by ringing back when she had 
new codes, but as mentioned, each call handler let her down when dealing with her. So 
taking into account her vulnerability, what she made NatWest aware of and the several 
issues she had which were caused by NatWest, and the impact these had on her, Im 
persuaded that a total of £500 for distress and inconvenience (less what she has already 
been paid) and £25 for the nursery fees is proportionate for what happened here. So it 
follows I intend to ask NatWest to put things right for Miss S. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NatWest accepted the provisional decision. Miss S said she had nothing further to 
add to the provisional decision except her profound disappointment in the decision reached. 
She said no monetary amount can fix what she had endured, but the amount is incredibly 
upsetting. She said she suffers daily with what happened and it turned her life upside down.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Miss S has said in response to the provisional decision. Theres no 
doubt that what happened here had an impact on Miss S, and this was clear on the phone 
calls I listened to. This is why I had increased the compensation to reflect the impact the 
events had on her. But our awards are not designed to punish a business. In the provisional 
decision I said When thinking of fair compensation, Ive factored in Miss S personal 
circumstances. From the very first phone call she told NatWest she was vulnerable, yet the 
call handler did not act on this information. Miss S was unable to withdraw cash to pay for 
essential items in physical shops. And while she could pay for certain things through an e-
money account, she would be unable to complete all of her transactions this way. Her 
vulnerability was made clear to NatWest over the several calls she had with them. 
It was only later on that Miss S was offered to transfer funds to the joint account on the 
phone and to be told they had an emergency cash process (albeit nobody actioned this for 
her). Miss S took the actions she was told by call handlers by ringing back when she had 
new codes, but as mentioned, each call handler let her down when dealing with her. So 
taking into account her vulnerability, what she made NatWest aware of and the several 
issues she had which were caused by NatWest, and the impact these had on her, Im 
persuaded that a total of £500 for distress and inconvenience (less what she has already 
been paid) and £25 for the nursery fees is proportionate for what happened here. 
So while I really empathise with what Miss S went through, Im satisfied that the 
compensation I said I intended to award her is proportionate and in line with our awards for 
compensation. In summary, Miss S response hasnt changed my view and my final decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. If Miss S is disappointed, I 
hope she understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Miss S a total of £500 (less anything that has already 
been paid to her) for distress and inconvenience, and £25 (in addition to the distress and 
inconvenience) for nursery fees. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Miss S a total of £500 
(less anything that has already been paid to her) for distress and inconvenience, and £25 (in 
addition to the distress and inconvenience) for nursery fees.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman