DRN-4415058
The complaint
Ms R complains that Revolt Ltd (Revolut) wont refund over £100,000 she lost as part of an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms R fell victim to an investment scam in April 2022 after she 
was contacted by a broker Terra Markets (the scammer). 
She was encouraged to invest, and accounts were opened in her name with several 
cryptocurrency platforms and electronic money institutions, including Wise and Revolut, 
which she was told were needed for trading. Ms R then made several payments from her 
bank accounts to her Revolut account. From her Revolut account, she says the scammer 
then made 14 payments to cryptocurrency platforms and her Wise account between 13  
21 May 2022, totalling over £100,000, where her funds were then transferred to the 
scammer. 
Ms R later realised she had been scammed and reported the fraud to Revolut, but it refused 
to refund the money she lost as she had authorised the payments. Unhappy with this, Ms R 
referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Revolut could have done more to 
question the payments Ms R was making to satisfy itself that she wasnt being scammed. 
But given Ms R had lied to all her other banks when questioned, she didnt think Revolut 
would have been able to prevent the loss if it had intervened. Ms R disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Authorisation
Ms R says that although she opened the Revolut account via her mobile device, she didnt 
authorise the payments made from the account as they were made by the scammer. So, Ive 
considered whether theres enough evidence to suggest that Ms R authorised the payments 
or not.
The Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) 2017 say that a payment transaction is authorised 
by the payer where they have given their consent to the execution of the payment 
transaction. Such consent must be given in the form and in accordance with the procedure 
agreed between the payer and the payment service provider.
I understand that Ms R may not have physically made the payments herself. But Revolut has 
shown that the payments were authorised by SMS from her mobile device. Ms R says she 
was pressured by the scammer into authorising the transactions from her phone, who was 
initiating the payments via computer. 
The PSRs 2017 do allow for payment transactions to be initiated by someone acting on 
behalf of the account holder, which can be agreed informally (e.g. by the account holder 
asking or permitting a third party to undertake a task on their behalf). And if the account 
holder has permitted a third party to appear as if they have the consumers authority to make 
payment transactions, those payment transactions will likely be authorised, even in 
situations where the consumer didnt ask the third party to make payments or know about 
them.
In this instance, Im satisfied Ms R was aware that payments were being made on her behalf 
and knew that the scammer was transferring money out of her Revolut account. She also 
agreed to the transfers by authorising them via SMS. I have therefore treated all of the 
disputed payments as having been authorised by Ms R. And the starting position in this 
scenario is that firms ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed, with Ms R being presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Ms R from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a regulated firm should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Did Revolut do enough to prevent Ms Rs loss to the scam?
Im satisfied there was enough suspicious activity present on Ms Rs account such that 
Revolut should have provided her with a written scam warning, and at some points even got 
in contact with her to discuss the payments she was making, such as the £18,900 payment 
she made on 14 May 2022, which marked a significant escalation in spending from the 
account.
But even accepting that Revolut should have provided a more impactful scam warning or 
blocked any of the payments prior to making further enquiries, Im not persuaded this would 
have ultimately prevented the scam in any event. I say this because Ms R had been 
coached by the scammer to lie if she was questioned about any of the payments she was 
making. Indeed, when she was questioned by some of her other banks, she maintained that 
no one was asking her to make the payments, and that no one had told her to lie to the 
bank. She didnt disclose that the payment was for an investment, for example, and instead 
gave misleading answers such as saying the money was for home improvements and her 
fathers operation. 
Ms R says she wasnt coached specifically on what to say if she was questioned by Revolut. 
But I note that Ms R was in contact with the scammer at every step of the scam, who was 
pressuring her into agreeing to take out loans, make payments and lie to the banks when 
questioned. She said she was told that if she didnt comply with the scammers instructions 
that she would risk losing everything she had invested so far. As a result, it seems more 
likely than not that if Revolut had started asking questions, she would have been told to lie in 
the same way she had with her other banks. And given the warnings provided by her other 
banks, which were not acted upon, it seems unlikely that any tailored written scam warning 
Revolut could have provided wouldve had any impact either. 
I note that Revolut did ask the reason for a £50 payment being made to Ms Rs Wise account on 20 May 2022, where the answer provided through the app was to a Safe 
Account. Revolut said it provided a warning in response to this, but given the high likelihood 
of this being related to a scam, it ought reasonably to have prevented the payment 
altogether until it was satisfied that this option had had been selected by mistake. However, 
for the reasons Ive set out above, I still dont think this would have ultimately prevented the 
scam, as Ms R wouldve likely been told what to say by the scammer (such as explaining 
that the payment was for her father or for home improvements, and that she was not being 
asked to transfer the money by anyone, which she had told her other banks).
So, overall, while I think Revolut ought to have done more in these circumstances, Im not 
persuaded any form of intervention it couldve made would have likely prevented Ms Rs 
loss, as it seems likely she would have provided false information in order to make the 
payments, as she did with her other banks. Therefore, I dont think Revoluts failure to 
intervene appropriately can reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Ms Rs loss 
in these circumstances.
Recovery
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds after 
Ms R reported the fraud. However, all the faster payments made from the account were 
made to other accounts in Ms Rs own name, and we know they were swiftly transferred on 
again to the scammer. So, there would have been no prospect of Revolut being able to 
recover the funds from the receiving accounts in these circumstances. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms R, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of such a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman