DRN-3628179
The complaint
Mr J complains about the amount Haven Insurance Company Limited paid him to settle a 
claim he made on his commercial vehicle insurance policy after his taxi was stolen.
Reference to Haven includes its agents.
What happened
Mr J held a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Haven. After his taxi was stolen, he 
made a claim.
Haven accepted the claim and said the market value of Mr Js car was £20,055. But it said 
Mr Js policy limited what it needed to pay him to the amount he said the car was worth when 
he took out the policy. It said Mr J told it his taxi was worth £15,000, so this was the figure it 
used to settle his claim. It settled Mr Js claim based on his car being worth £15,000 and 
deducted the excess and the remaining premium from the settlement.
Mr J didnt think this was fair and complained. He said he was insured for the market value 
of the car, so thinks thats what Haven need to pay him. But Haven didnt agree, so Mr J 
brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended Mr Js complaint be upheld. They too thought Haven 
should settle Mr Js claim using the market value of his car at the time of loss.
Haven didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Js complaint.
Mr Js policy says that if his car is stolen, Haven will pay him a settlement of its 
(his taxis) Market Value at the date it was stolen subject to the Limit of Coverage 
shown in the Schedule after deducting the applicable Excess(es).
The limit of cover is set out in the policy as The value shown in the schedule  
which in this case is £15,000.
Market value is defined in the policy as the cost of replacing Your Taxi with one of 
a similar make, model and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and 
condition of Your Taxi.
Haven deemed the market value of Mr Js car to be £20,055. But looking at the trade 
guides I find a better reflection of the market value of Mr Js car is £21,427 (the 
average of the three guides used  the range of the guides was £21,250  £21,551)
Although in the policy, I dont find that limiting the value of Mr Js settlement to the 
amount shown on his schedule leads to a fair answer. This is because:
oThe amount shown was an estimate Mr J gave to his broker based on what 
he bought the taxi for.
oThis is a market value policy, not an agreed value policy and applying this 
term only benefits Haven, not Mr J. If the market value of Mr Js car is above 
the amount shown on the schedule, Haven only need pay the lower amount, if 
the market value is below that stated on the schedule, again, Haven only 
need pay the lower amount.
oCrucially, had Mr J said his taxi was worth roughly £21,000 - the market value 
of his taxi  then Haven would not have charged Mr J any more to insurer it. 
So, Haven hasnt been prejudiced by Mr Js low estimate of his taxis value.
Putting things right
Haven should settle Mr Js claim based on the market value of his car. Its not an exact 
science, but I find a value of £21,427 to be a fair representation of the value of his car at the 
time of loss. Haven is able to deduct the policy excess and remaining premium from this 
amount to settle Mr Js claim. But I dont find it fair that it applies the policy limit of the 
amount set out in the schedule for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Js complaint and require Haven Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Settle Mr Js claim based on the market value of his vehicle being £21,427. It can 
deduct the remaining premium and policy excess from this amount, but it cant apply 
the policy limit set out in the schedule.
If its already paid Mr J its original offer, it only need pay the difference between what 
it has already paid, and how the claim should have been settled as outlined in the 
previous bullet point.
8% simple interest should be added to the payment it makes to Mr J. Interest should 
be calculated from the date it paid the first payment to Mr J, to the date it settles the 
claim as outlined in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman