DRN-4333943
The complaint
Ms C and her daughter Miss L complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
mishandled a motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms C was born in the late 1950s outside the UK. She became resident in the UK in the late 
1970s. 
In late April 2022, Ms C and Miss L were looking to buy a motor insurance policy. They gave 
information including that they had each been resident in the UK since birth.
Miss L got a policy and paid about £513.00 for the year from 1 May 2022. She was the 
policyholder. The policy also covered her father and Ms C as named drivers.
The policy was in the name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the insurance 
company that was responsible for setting the premium.
In mid- May 2022, Advantage found out the correct information about Ms Cs length of 
residency in the UK. It asked for an additional premium of about £104.00.
On 22 May 2022, Ms C and Miss L complained about the additional premium of about 
£104.00. They  asked the intermediary to cancel the policy and asked for a pro-rata refund. 
Ms C and Miss L also expressed dissatisfaction with being unable to access policy 
documents online.
By a final response dated 24 May 2022, the intermediary turned down the complaint about 
the £104.00. It confirmed cancellation and it set out the costs involved and the refund due as 
follows:
arrangement fee £  20.00
telematics device £  20.00
charge for time on cover £  28.54
cancellation fee £  45.00
subtotal £113.54
less paid £513.48
refund £399.94
Ms C brought her complaint to us in early June 2022. 
Our investigator said that Ms C and Miss L had also complained that the intermediary hadnt 
refunded enough  and we would be dealing with that second complaint separately.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the first complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantage had applied its underwiring criteria correctly and that it was entitled to increase 
the premium charged accordingly. 
Ms C and Miss L disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Ms C says, in summary, that:
She had held a full clean driving licence for 40 years. She had 20 years NCB (no-
claims bonus).
She could not access the policy details online. She complained about this. She never 
had a chance to check the documents for accuracy.
She is no higher risk than if she had been born in the UK. 
There is no justification or explanation for the additional premium. It was 
discriminatory.
The company kept £113.54 unjustifiably. That included the cost of an unused 
monitoring device.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of complaint and complaint handling
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules.
One of those rules means that - before we can investigate a complaint  the consumer must 
first have made that complaint to the firm and waited for up to eight weeks for a final 
response. That rule applies unless the firm gives consent for us to investigate the complaint 
anyway.
Also, we operate a two-stage process under which an investigator gives an opinion and, if 
necessary, an ombudsman gives a final decision on a complaint.
Our investigator said that the complaint about the £113.54 was a complaint that post-dated 
the final response and the firm hadnt given consent for us to deal with it. So the investigator 
didnt deal with that aspect of the complaint.
For those reasons, the scope of my final decision is limited to the complaint insofar as it is 
about the additional premium of about £104.00 and about online access to the policy 
documents.
Policy documents
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 obliges a consumer to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to an insurer when taking out a policy.
There is a period of 14 days from the provision of policy documents for a policyholder to 
cancel without a fee. So Miss L wouldve been in a better position if shed checked the 
documents and corrected the error within that period.
Im satisfied that Advantage made the policy documents available to Miss L online on the 
day she took out the policy.
I accept that Ms C had some difficulty in accessing the documents online. I dont find that 
unfair as she wasnt the policyholder. Additional premium
Different insurers assess risk and premiums in different ways. We dont generally have the 
power to uphold a complaint that some ways are less fair than others. 
Nevertheless, we expect the insurer to show us its confidential internal underwriting or 
pricing criteria, so that we can check that the insurer has applied them correctly. We dont 
share the confidential criteria with a consumer without the insurers consent.
Ive seen and considered Advantages underwriting criteria, which we will not share. The 
criteria assess a higher risk and a higher premium for a driver with fewer years residency in 
the UK. I accept that this works to the disadvantage of drivers who have lived outside the 
UK, even before they started driving. 
Im satisfied that Advantage applied its criteria correctly when it asked for the additional 
premium of about £104.00. Im satisfied that Advantage treated Miss L and Ms C in the 
same way as it wouldve treated any other consumers in their situation. 
Conclusion
I dont find that Advantage treated Miss L or Ms C unfairly. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Advantage to do any more in response to this complaint about the 
provision of policy documents online and about the additional premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Miss L 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman