The complaint
Mr G complains that Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold him a Select Silver Account
(SSA) in 2013.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
What happened
In March 2013 Mr G took out an SSA which incurred a monthly fee.
Mr G says that when he was sold the SSA, he was told it was the only account he could 
have in his financial situation. He says the SSA was unsuitable for him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint, but Mr G disagrees, so the complaint comes 
to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
I think that RBS mis-sold the SSA to Mr G and Ill explain why.
Mr G had held a fee free account with RBS for two years prior to the sale and so taking out 
the fee paying SSA was a significant change for him.
In March 2013 the main SSA benefits were European travel insurance with winter sports; 
mobile phone insurance; and a fee free overdraft of up to £100.
The cost of the SSA was £10 a month or £120 a year.
DRN-2278858Mr G sa ys that he w as called into the bank because his account had been frozen. He sa ys 
that in the branch he was told that as he had recently been made bankrupt, the only 
account available to hi m was a fee-paying account  the SSA.
I cant know if this was the case as I wasnt there at the discussion. But I can consider 
whethe r RBS acted properly overall. RBS says this was a non-advised sale, in which 
case it was required to provide Mr G with enough information to make an informed 
decision about what he wa s buying.
RBS has provided the application form from the day of the sale. It says, before signing 
this application form please read the following documents: It then lists four documents 
about how their banking service operates and the cu rrent account terms, conditions and 
interest rates. It also lists a document specifically about the Select Silver account. There 
is a box next to all these for Mr G to sa y he has received them. On the form th at Mr G 
has signed, the box is not ticked.
Also, the words and numbers on the form appear to be in the same handwriting and this 
appears to me to be different to Mr Gs which Ive seen elsewhere. And there 
is an x placed next to where he has signed.
So, I think its more likely than not that the application form was filled in by RBS and 
presented to him to sign and he didn t receive the documentation he should have done at 
the time. And in my view, it follow s that he wa s influenced more by what he was told in the 
discussion.
At the time of the sale, Mr G says he was not doing any travelling and he did n ot have 
a mobile phone, and Ive seen no eviden ce to suggest the contrary.
After the sale he did not register fo r or use any of the b enefits, nor did he go significantly 
into overdraft.
So, I cant see any eviden ce that Mr G wouldve been interested in the SSA at the time.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr G signed for the new account followin g the 
discussion and that he didn t receive enough information in a way th at he could 
understand in the discussion. I also think its more likely than not that if he had been 
informed ful ly, he would not have chosen to take out the account. And I think Mr G has 
lost out as a result of what RBS failed to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, neither party had anything further to add. So, my 
conclusions remain as outlined in my provisional findings above.
Putting things right
I require Royal Bank of Scotland plc to:
Pay Mr G the amount Mr G paid each month for the SSA.Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr G has saved money because of a better rate on his overdraft or any loan by 
having the packaged account and RBS can show exactly how much Mr G saved, it 
may deduct his savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated 
the two points above. RBS must explain clearly and simply to Mr G how it has worked 
out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest. RBS must give Mr 
G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay Mr G redress as described in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
Richard Hill
Ombudsman