The complaint
Mr R complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a personal baggage
claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R was on holiday abroad. He was travelling on an overnight coach. Hed stored his bag,
which contained his phone, a tablet and some cash, on the seat next to him. While Mr R was
asleep, these items were stolen. Mr R says he reported the theft of the items to the coach
driver, but he drove off. Mr R got in touch with his tour company to report the loss. He also
said that he visited local police stations but wasnt able to get a written report of the theft. He
made a claim to IPA for the stolen items.
IPA turned down Mr Rs claim. It initially said that Mr R had left the bag containing his
valuable items unattended, which is specifically excluded by the policy terms. It later
acknowledged that Mr Rs belongings werent left unattended. But it then said the claim
wasnt covered because Mr R hadnt reported the loss to the Police or the carrier within 24
hours of the incident. This is also specifically excluded by the terms of the policy.
Mr R wasnt happy with IPAs decision. He asked us to look into his complaint. He provided
evidence which showed hed tried to report the loss to his tour company shortly after hed
discovered the theft.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr R had taken
reasonable steps to report his loss. But she felt he had left the bag unattended. So she
thought it was fair for IPA to turn down the claim.
Mr R disagreed. He said IPA had accepted he hadnt left the bag unattended. Hed clearly
reported the loss to the carrier within 24 hours of the theft. He said the coach had bunk beds
in it and most people had kept their things on the floor. By keeping the bag next to him, hed
tried to mitigate his losses.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 October 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think IPA had handled Mr Rs claim fairly and why I thought it should 
reconsider it. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say the insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the circumstances of
Mr Rs claim, the available evidence and the policy terms to decide whether I think IPA
considered his claim fairly.
First, having reviewed the file, its clear that IPA accepted in its final response that Mr Rs
bag hadnt been left unattended. It acknowledged it shouldnt have initially relied on this term
to turn down Mr Rs claim. So I dont think it would now be fair for IPA to rely on this term to
DRN-2336108turn down the claim. I agree with IPAs complaints investigator that Mr Rs bag being next to
him was effectively the same as if hed been on a plane.
IPA has now relied on the following policy exclusion clause to turn down Mr Rs claim:
What you are not covered for
Theft or loss of personal baggage and/or valuables which has not been reported to the local
Police in the country of incident, your accommodation management, your carrier or tour
operator within 24 hours of the incident or within 24 hours of you becoming aware that the
incident has taken place. The incident report with a case number must be sent to us with
your claim.
Theres no dispute that Mr R hasnt provided IPA with a written Police report setting out the
loss, although hes explained he did report it to the local Police. However, based on what Ive
seen, I am satisfied that Mr R did report the loss to his tour company and attempted to report
it to the carrier. Hes provided an email chain, dated the same date the loss occurred,
between him and the tour company. His first emailed stated that his phone, tablet and
money had been stolen from his bag on the coach and that hed tried to report it to the bus
driver, whod driven off. He asked if the tour company could report the loss to the carrier and
for any help they could offer. I think this was a reasonable approach.
I can also see that the tour company replied saying that theyd contacted the coach
company. Mr R chased things up a couple of times, because he needed an official incident
report and the tour company suggested this hadnt been provided by the coach company. Mr
R also mentioned that hed tried to report the loss to the Police, but that they hadnt been
able to assist him.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im currently satisfied that Mr R did comply with the policy
terms and did report the loss within the 24-hour period. I think he took all reasonable steps to
try and get a report from the carrier and tried to chase things up to support his claim. So I
dont think its reasonable for IPA to rely on this exclusion clause to turn it down.
I asked both parties to send me anything more they wanted to consider.
Mr R had nothing more to add.
IPA accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason for 
me to change my findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to reconsider Mr Rs claim in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy and in line with the policy limits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman