DRN-4428467
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains about the way KW Wealth Planning Limited trading as
Kingswood Group managed the late Mrs Ss portfolio. It says some of the investments were
unsuitable and these caused a financial loss.
What happened
In 2014 Mrs S transferred her existing discretionary portfolio to KWPL. As part of its
onboarding process, Mrs S filled out an investment questionnaire with KWPL which set out
some key information about her and her financial circumstances. This document showed
that she was earning over £110,000 in income from various sources, was spending around
£16,000 a year and had around £192,000 in cash savings. The questionnaire also said that
she had around £1.6million in stocks and shares, £234,000 in bonds and £15,000 in national
savings. At the time, her attitude to risk was identified as lower/medium risk. This
involved a 50% fixed interest and equity split with Ms Ss objective being to provide for her
day to day needs and protecting her capital against inflation.
In 2016 Mrs S updated her investment profile with KWPL. The profile set out some additional
key information about her, including her knowledge, experience and overall financial
circumstances. In summary:
She had knowledge of a range of investments, including bonds, savings, investment 
bonds, unit trusts and OEICs, ETFs, investment trusts, shares and UCIS. She had no 
knowledge of complex pension arrangements, derivatives, VCT, EIS or BPRA 
schemes or guaranteed investments. She confirmed that she had previously invested 
in UCIS.
She held around £240,000 in cash and was expecting her portfolio to be around 
£1.6million. She was looking to achieve her goals within two to five years, and whilst 
she was looking for income primarily, this was not as important as it was.
In terms of risk she answered five questions. Broadly speaking, she accepted that 
her portfolio would be exposed to some risk and that it would fluctuate in value in 
order to maximise her potential for long term growth. However, she would not feel 
comfortable with a loss of 20%.
Her attitude to investment showed that she would be unlikely to spend any of the 
invested capital and that she wanted steady and predictable returns, rather than 
dramatic swings in value.
Her capacity for loss showed that she could maintain a loss of up to 19% of her 
portfolio.
The total of these scores put her in KWPLs Category 3: 
50% fixed income and 50% equity investment: This strategy is expected to deliver a balance 
between longer term capital growth and income with medium risk. In order to achieve this, 
the strategy is mostly invested in equities and fixed income instruments.
The notes also gave a bit more context about the late Mrs Ss objectives. They said that the
portfolio was set up when her husband was alive and it provided an income to allow them to
travel and for his private health care. The notes explained that while Mrs S travelled less
after his passing, she liked seeing her bank balance grow knowing she could call on it at
any time. As the balance had grown by around £50,000 in two years, the advisers noted that
this income was likely surplus but was something Mrs S was keen on. He noted that her
other objective was otherwise to invest to preserve capital from inflation impact to retain its
real value.
Between 2014 and June 2018 KWPL managed the portfolio on a discretionary basis. During
this time Mrs Ss portfolio had a broad equity and non-equity split. Crucially, within what
KWPL claimed was the lower risk part of the portfolio, it had purchased on her behalf units
in two Unregulated Collective Investments (UCIS):
Prestige Alternative Finance (Prestige); this UCIS focused on investing in asset- 
based direct lending. Between 2015 and 2018 KWPL invested £215,000 in this fund.
TCA Global Credit Master Fund (TCA); this UCIS focused on investing in short term, 
senior secure, direct lending and advisory services for small and medium 
enterprises. Typically the fund invested primarily in the USA, with some exposure to 
EU/UK, Canada and New Zealand. Between 2014 and 2018, KWPL invested 
£208,000 in this fund.
During the period in question, the combined total of these investments amounted to about
25% of Mrs Ss portfolio  this was in part also due to increases in the values of both funds.
In June 2018 the arrangement changed as a result of Mrs Ss power of attorneys (POAs)
involvement. The portfolio then became an advisory one until it was transferred to another
firm.
In March 2021 Mrs Ss POAs complained to KWPL. In short they complained that as a result
of a fraud allegation in the management of the TCA UCIS, the portfolio stood to lose the
entire investment. And they said that neither UCISs were suitable for Mrs S and the
proportion invested was far too much. KWPL looked into their complaint but didnt agree it
had done anything wrong. It said that both investments were suitable for Mrs S as a high net
worth investor, and that the Prestige UCIS made a gain of around 25% when it was sold.
It said that the only reason the TCA UCIS was making such a significant loss was due to it
being in liquidation as a result of fraud, and this was not something KWPL was responsible
for or could foresee.
Shortly after this, Mrs S sadly passed away. The executors of her estate referred the
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded it
should be upheld. In short, he considered that UCIS were not suitable investments for Mrs S
given her attitude to risk, age and investment objectives. He recommended both TCA and
Prestige be compared to a benchmark, and any difference in return refunded to the estate.
The late Mrs Ss estate agreed, but KWPL did not. It made detailed comments in response:
Mrs S was not averse to risk and the answers she gave in her investment profile 
demonstrated this. She was prepared to accept some investment risk to achieve her 
investment goals  and had indicated she was comfortable with losses up to 19%.
The investments in TCA and Prestige were part of a diverse range of investments 
taken out and maintained as part of Mrs Ss investment portfolio as a whole. This 
was part of a balance of fixed income and equities.
The advisor had the balance of the portfolio uppermost in mind when considering 
investment decisions. He explained in 2020 that by removing TCA and Prestige from 
the portfolio, it skews the asset allocation towards equities and in theory to higher risk assets. He concluded that such a disposal would essentially make the portfolio 75% 
equities and 25% non-equities.
KWPL said this showed that the portfolio overall was not particularly high risk and 
was appropriate for Mrs S. It said the evidence showed the adviser was conscious of 
this and concerned about the imbalance of holding too many equity based 
investments.
It said that the advisor could not have known about the fraud issues within the TCA 
fund, and it would be unfair to penalise the advisor for recommending that investment 
with the benefit of hindsight.
It said that it noted the investigators conclusions about the allocation of 25% of the 
portfolio to UCIS, but it said that the return made on the sale of Prestige compared to 
the returns on other fixed income demonstrated that it was the right call to make. It 
reiterated its argument that it was unfair to only look at one part of the portfolio, and 
all of the portfolio should be taken into account.
It said that whilst the investigator had pointed out other investments which KWPL 
couldve bought on Mrs Ss behalf, its view at the time was that gilts were considered 
to be one of the most risky. It said this was evidenced in 2022 when gilt markets fell 
by 23%. It said that the portfolio was finely balanced. And it said that the advisors 
opinion of both UCIS was that they were less volatile than other investments and had 
delivered consistent returns.
It disagreed with the investigator that Mrs S wouldnt have understood the risks of 
Prestige and TCA, and said she had signed a high net worth letter which set out 
some risks, and her experience supported its understanding. It said that she had 
previously invested into two other UCIS. It said that the service shouldnt overstate 
Mrs Ss age and vulnerabilities at the time, as she was an experienced investor who 
had held the portfolio for many years and was fully informed of the risks. It disagreed 
with the investigators method for awarding compensation, and argued that a gilt 
index would be more appropriate. 
It said that any calculation ought to stop at the point at which the POAs were 
appointed in 2014 or at the latest when the arrangement with KWPL became 
advisory. It said that they had agreed to sign, in 2018, another high net worth 
statement which specifically alerted them to the risk that the investments to which 
the promotions will relate may expose me to a significant risk of losing all of the 
money or other property invested. It also said that in 2019, when the POAs were in 
the process of transferring the portfolio to another firm, it had said it was unable to 
hold the two UCIS. Therefore, the POAs were on notice at the time about problems 
with these assets  and couldve sold them then if they wanted to. Had they done 
this, the TCA fund wouldve had a value that couldve been realised, thereby avoiding 
the substantial loss now incurred.
In October 2023, I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
Whilst Ive considered KWPLs comments very carefully, Im not persuaded it has clearly
explained why this non-equity portion of the portfolio was suitable for a medium low risk
investor like Mrs S  particularly in view of the limited requirements from the portfolio, her
modest expenditure and crucially her attitude to investment risk.KWPL has made the argument that the losses on the TCA UCIS were not foreseeable, and
that Prestige turned a profit  when the gilt market had dropped. But to my mind, these are
performance considerations which I dont agree are relevant to establishing the suitability of
these investments for Mrs S. Whilst Ive not reviewed what due diligence KWPL carried out
on TCA, its clear to me that it had no ability to know in advance how an investment would
perform. Im also persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that KWPL legitimately believed
these investments were worthwhile, and would make a return in the future.
I also agree with KWPL that it isnt fair to look at the two UCIS in isolation. Its clear to me
that the advisor was keen on ensuring an adequate balance in the portfolio and believed that
both these UCIS counteracted the equity or higher risk portion of the portfolio. And Im
satisfied that given everything that was known about Mrs S at the time, it wasnt inherently
unsuitable to invest in some UCIS on her behalf. What I mean here is that given everything
that KWPL knew about Mrs S, the question isnt the suitability of UCIS per se.
What Ive considered is to what extent these investments made her whole portfolio
unsuitable. And its the effect of these two investments on her overall portfolio that in my
view means I should uphold the executors complaint.
I say this firstly because I dont agree that considering these investments as lower risk was
fair and reasonable. I think the FCA has been clear that these investments are not lower
risk, and are not going to be suitable for the majority of consumers. Furthermore, whilst
Mrs S was high net worth, it did not automatically follow that she should be significantly
exposed to the inherent risks that these types of investments represent. As Ive said above, I
can understand why consideration was given to alternative investments in the context of
Mrs Ss varied and large portfolio  but to have at various points in time a quarter of her
portfolio invested in UCIS in my view unfairly disregarded her attitude to risk and her
objectives.
Furthermore, KWPL has attempted to argue both in response to the complaint and at the
time, that removing these UCIS from the portfolio would have skewed the risk of the portfolio
towards the higher end because it wouldve resulted in it having around 70% in equities. In
my view, this shows that the portfolio was therefore not aligned with the amount of risk that
Mrs S was willing to take with her money. This was not a justification for keeping these
investments in the portfolio  in my view the level of equities in her portfolio was the very
reason why Mrs S should not have had such a large proportion of the remainder invested in
UCIS.
In my view, the very fact that removing both these UCIS meant that the portfolio would be
70% invested in equities shows that the portfolio was in fact not medium lower risk as Mrs S
wanted  it was clearly carrying a much higher level of risk that she wanted or had indicated
she was comfortable with.
The reality is that both these unregulated investments were not low risk. And whilst they may
well have outperformed other mainstream investments, such as gilts, Im satisfied that given
the FCAs guidance which Ive quoted above, it wasnt fair and reasonable for the adviser to
have concluded that these investments would counteract the equity portion of the portfolio.
In my view, both these investments needed to be properly considered within the equity
portion of Mrs Ss portfolio in order for KWPL to ensure that Mrs Ss portfolio remained
aligned to her objectives and attitude to risk.
As a result, I agree with the investigator that Mrs Ss portfolio was unsuitable for her, and I
consider that KWPL needs to put things right. However, Ive disagreed with how this should
be done, and explain why below.In putting things right for the estate of Mrs S, my objective is to put it in the position it
wouldve been had Mrs S been suitably advised and her portfolio been suitably managed.
As Ive outlined above, Im satisfied that the UCIS which KWPL bought on her behalf made
the portfolio unsuitable  but Im also satisfied that the adviser did have the whole portfolio in
mind when investing in them.
As Ive also said, the investments themselves were not inherently unsuitable for Mrs S  but
its the amount of her portfolio that was exposed to them, combined with the level of other
equities she was invested in, which made the resulting portfolio unsuitable for her.
It's important I note this, because it goes to the heart of what KWPL should do to put things
right. Its clear to me that in essentially only compensating for these two investments, I
wouldnt be putting the estate of Mrs S back in the position it wouldve been had the late Mrs
Ss portfolio been suitably managed.
I say this because in my view, the rest of the portfolio wouldve looked different had KWPL
not invested in these two UCIS. I cant say precisely how it wouldve looked different, or what
other strategies it may have employed in order to reduce the risk of the portfolio overall. So it
is not possible to say precisely what the late Mrs S would have done. But I am satisfied that
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs S' circumstances and objectives
when she invested.
I also have to be mindful of removing or avoiding any benefit of hindsight when putting
matters right. The adviser didnt know in advance how investments would perform.
What all this means is that I think taking out these two investments from the portfolio, and
disregarding how the remainder of the portfolio performed, is not fair and reasonable. Im
satisfied that as Mrs Ss portfolio was being managed holistically, and since Ive concluded
that these investments made the whole portfolio unsuitable, its fair and reasonable that the
benchmark ought to take into account the portfolios performance overall, including these
two investments.
Finally, KWPL has also argued that the end date ought to be when the arrangement ceased
to be discretionary. Ive considered this argument but I dont currently agree thats fair. Whilst
its clear that the late Mrs Ss POAs were on notice about these UCIS, Ive seen no evidence
that KWPL at any point advised them to sell these investments. In fact, Ive seen the
opposite  that is KWPL explaining why these two investments shouldnt be sold, because of
the impact on the rest of the portfolio. Therefore Im satisfied that the end date ought to be
the date the portfolio was transferred.
I recommended that KWPL compare the performance of the portfolio with a benchmark to 
determine the loss to the estate.
The estate of Mrs S agreed with my provisional decision, but KWPL did not. It provided 
detailed comments in response. It said:
The relative exposure to UCIS in Mrs Ss portfolio was constantly diminishing by 
virtue of her income surplus. 
It disputed that around 25% of the portfolio was invested in UCIS, and noted that this 
was in fact around 17.7%. 
It said that by investing in UCIS at different times, there was greater protection to Mrs 
Ss investment in the form of pound cost averaging. It reiterated that the loss suffered 
on the investment was due to fraud which was not something KWPL was responsible 
for. Mrs S did not rely on the investments and the investments in UCIS provided a 
greater element of diversification within the clients holistic portfolio and reduced risk 
overall. 
It also reiterated that given Mrs Ss significant income surplus, the concentration of 
Mrs Ss investments into the UCIS would drop significantly over the years  and it 
gave examples of how that would happen dropping by over 2% by 2021. 
It referred to a case study on this services website and noted parallels between the 
two cases, including the fact that Mrs S was a high net worth individual. 
It said that Mrs S power of attorneys failed to act in her best interests by not raising 
any concerns about the UCIS investments prior to 2021. In summary, KWPL said 
that the POAs couldve raised concerns about the UCIS earlier than 2021, and in 
particular in 2019 when another firm wouldve accepted the investments. At that point 
they couldve been liquidated but werent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness, Ive set out the relevant regulatory background, as I did in my provisional 
decision, here. 
There were rules which governed how KWPL needed to manage the late Mrs Ss portfolio,
and for ease of reference I set these out below.
Applicable standards and guidance
In 2014, the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules for businesses advising on investments
were set out in COBS 9  Suitability. Whilst the provisions changed a little between 2014
and 2018, Ive only set out the wording of the rules in 2014 as I consider the changes minor
and did not fundamentally alter KWPLs obligations with respect to Mrs Ss portfolio.
Assessing suitability: the obligations
COBS 9.2.1 R 01/11/2007 RP
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
(2) When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm 
must obtain the necessary information regarding the client's:
a. knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type 
of designated investment or service;
b. financial situation; and
c. investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 R 01/11/2007 RP
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the 
specific transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
a. meets his investment objectives;
b. is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks 
consistent with his investment objectives; and
c. is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his 
portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, 
his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the 
investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, 
including liquid assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial 
commitments.
COBS 9.2.3 R 01/11/2007 RP
The information regarding a clients knowledge and experience in the investment field
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their
complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is 
familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the clients transactions in designated investments 
and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client.
The FCA has over the course of the period in question also provided its own view on UCIS.
It, and its predecessor the FSA, has consistently said that UCIS are high risk investments
due to their often illiquid nature and unregulated status, which allows UCIS fund managers to
invest in riskier assets or use riskier investment strategies than authorised or recognised
schemes. It warns consumers that UCIS is considered a high risk investment and you
should be prepared to lose all your money.
My findings in light of KWPLs comments
Ive carefully considered the comments that KWP has provided. However, Im not persuaded 
to change my provisional findings, and I therefore confirm them as final. 
KWPL has made references to Mrs Ss income surplus and its effect on the concentration of 
Mrs Ss portfolio in the two UCIS. 
It has also said that the concentration of Mrs Ss portfolio wasnt as much as 25% in the two 
UCIS. 
I accept the relative proportion fluctuated, but by July 2018 KWPL confirmed to her POAs 
that her total exposure was over 25%, at 27.66% - this was a little over half her low risk 
element. The key part, the letter said, was that these UCIS were risk reducers. Furthermore, whilst I accept that investments in TCA and Prestige were made with a view to 
the whole portfolio, I dont agree that all of Mrs Ss net worth was taken into account. For 
example, her review in 2014 clearly makes reference to the £1.6m from the sale of the 
business, and specifically relates to the portfolio only. Whilst her overall financial 
circumstances were taken into account in establishing the relevant risk tolerance (and, for 
example, whether she needed additional cash within the portfolio), its the percentage of 
UCIS in the portfolio thats relevant to whether it was aligned with her attitude to risk. 
In any event, even if I accepted KWPLs arguments (and for the reasons Ive set out above, 
Im not persuaded), including that Mrs Ss portfolio wasnt always as exposed to the two 
UCIS, I consider that almost 18% of Mrs Ss portfolio invested in UCIS would still have been 
unsuitable for her  and for the same reasons I already gave in my provisional decision. Its 
clear to me that this element of her portfolio was seen as lower risk, and for the reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision (and which I confirm here as final) this wasnt fair and 
reasonable. In my view, given the rest of the portfolio was weighted significantly in equities, it 
wasnt fair and reasonable for KWPL to conclude that it was suitable to invest so much of 
Mrs Ss portfolio in UCIS. 
And Im not persuaded its fair that I consider Mrs Ss bank balance and how much it was 
growing or wouldve grown but for her passing. In my view, Mrs S was clear that her bank 
balance was something separate to her portfolio and how it was being managed, and Ive 
seen no evidence that in determining the risk of Mrs Ss portfolio, or the trading decisions it 
was making on her behalf, KWPL included her bank balance as part of its valuations. 
Finally, Im not persuaded I have sufficient evidence to conclude that the POAs are in some 
way responsible for not selling or liquidating these investments sooner. Its clear to me that 
they were reliant on KWPL as their advisers, and for the reasons Ive already given in my 
provisional decision, its advice was clearly against selling these investments  nor did it ever 
allude to the investments potentially being too high risk or unsuitable. So I remain of the view 
that the end date for any calculation of compensation ought to be when the portfolio was 
moved to the new adviser.  
In relation to the case study, whilst I understand why KWPL has raised it, I think it illustrates 
the approach Ive taken here. The issue isnt just about Mrs S being high net worth  in order 
to establish whether KWPL treated her fairly, Ive taken into account her attitude to risk 
(which was never recorded as high), her objectives for the portfolio as well as the proportion 
of her portfolio that was invested in UCIS. Its all of these factors combined that have led me 
to conclude, in my provisional decision and in this final decision, that it wasnt fair and 
reasonable for KWPL to have invested Mrs Ss portfolio the way that it did. 
So for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied the estate of Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld 
and compensation is payable. As Ive had no comments on my approach to putting things 
right, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions and I therefore set them out 
again below. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
estate of Mrs S as close to the position it would probably now be in if Mrs Ss portfolio had 
been suitable for her. I take the view that Mrs Ss portfolio wouldve been invested 
differently. It is not possible to say precisely what Mrs S wouldve been invested in. But I 
am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs S's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must KWPL do?
To compensate the estate of Mrs S fairly, KWPL must:
Compare the performance of Mrs S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
KWPL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
The 
portfolioNo longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
KWPL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
**I understand the TCA UCIS is currently illiquid. KWPL will need to take ownership of that
investment, and assume its value is £0 for the purposes of the calculation above. If KWPL
cannot take ownership of the investment, then the estate of Mrs S will need to provide an
undertaking that any future payments out of this fund will be paid back to KWPL in future.**
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs S wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs S' circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
KW Wealth Planning Limited trading as Kingswood Group should provide details of its 
calculation to the estate of Mrs S in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that KW Wealth Planning Limited trading as Kingswood 
Group pays the estate of Mrs S the balance plus any interest on that amount as set out 
above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind KW Wealth 
Planning Limited trading as Kingswood Group. It is unlikely that the estate of Mrs S can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. The estate of Mrs S may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that KW Wealth Planning Limited 
trading as Kingswood Group should pay the estate of Mrs S the amount produced by that 
calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman