DRN-4184273
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly added a late payment 
marker to his credit file. 
What happened
RBS decided to close Mr Ds current account in November 2022. It sent a letter to his last 
recorded address to say he had an outstanding balance on his account of about £500. It 
explained what would happen if that amount wasnt paid within seven days. RBS emailed 
Mr D in January 2023 to say he owed money on his account and the matter had been 
escalated to a debt recovery agent. 
Mr D contacted RBS in January 2023 to say hed not received the letter of November 2022 
as hed moved address. He asked how to avoid the debt impacting his credit file. He also 
raised a number of complaints over the next couple of months. He didnt understand why 
RBS hadnt contacted him by email or by phone in accordance with his communication 
preference, rather than by post. He said it hadnt replied to his questions about how to avoid 
an adverse marker being put on his credit record. And he complained that RBS hadnt called 
him back when it said it would.
RBS said it was Mr Ds responsibility to notify the bank when he moved address, and he 
hadnt done that. It noted that it had also emailed Mr D in mid-January 2023 to say that a 
marker might be added to his account and advised him to call its recoveries and collections 
team. It accepted it hadnt called Mr D back when it said it would. It apologised for that poor 
service and provided £100 for any distress or inconvenience caused. Mr D wasnt happy so 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think RBS needed to do anything more. He said RBS was obliged to 
send the November 2022 letter by post and Mr D didnt receive it because he hadnt updated 
his address, as he had a responsibility to do. He also noted that Mr D was aware of the debt 
before any marker had been applied and thought hed had enough time to pay it. Our 
investigator also noted that RBS had applied a second late payment marker to Mr Ds credit 
record. But it had acknowledged that this was an error, removed it from his record and paid 
him £75. It had also paid him £100 for not calling Mr D back when it should have done.
As Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has confirmed that a late payment marker was added to Mr Ds credit file. As he didnt 
receive RBSs letter of November 2022 warning him it would need to be paid within seven 
days, and he paid the debt in March 2023, I can understand why he feels hes been treated 
unfairly. But, based on the information Ive seen, I dont think he has been. Let me explain 
why.
The letter RBS sent to Mr D in November 2022 said it had decided to close his account. It 
said Mr D would need to pay any outstanding balances on his account within seven days 
from the date of the letter. And if the debit balance was still outstanding after that period, it 
might take action to recover the amount. It said that it might also share information about the 
debt with credit reference agencies and this might affect his credit rating. So, Im satisfied 
the letter clearly explained what would happen if Mr D didnt pay the outstanding amount on 
his account within seven days.
Mr D said he didnt receive the letter because hed moved address. He accepts he didnt 
notify RBS of his change of address but didnt think that was necessary as he no longer had 
a relationship with the bank. But I dont agree. Mr D had an outstanding amount on his 
account that needed to be paid back and the account would stay active until that debt was 
satisfied. So, I think it was fair for RBS to say he should have notified the bank of his new 
address. 
Mr D also said RBS should have contacted him in other ways, by phoning him or sending an 
email. RBS has said it had a responsibility to send the notice of account closure by post, 
although I note it hasnt said why it couldnt also have contacted Mr D in other ways. 
Nevertheless, Mr D had a responsibility to keep RBS notified of any address changes. The 
terms and conditions of his account say he should tell RBS as soon as he can if his contact 
details change, to ensure he receives its communications. If Mr D had done that, he would 
have received the letter and he could have paid the outstanding amount within seven days. 
So, I dont think RBS has treated Mr D unfairly by escalating the matter to a debt collection 
agency when that didnt happen.
Mr D contacted RBS in January 2023. RBS confirmed its decision to close his account and 
said that a marker might be put on his credit file. It suggested he contact its collections and 
recoveries team to confirm the position of his account. A further letter from RBS in early 
March confirmed that no adverse data had been added to his credit file at that point and 
suggested he contact the debt collection agency to arrange a repayment to avoid any 
adverse data being recorded. So, RBS made Mr D aware of the potential consequences of 
not paying the debt in this period and I think he had an opportunity to contact the recoveries 
team and/or the debt collection agency to discuss repayment options at that time. I cant say 
whether, had he done so, he would have avoided the late payment marker, but I think that 
was possible. Whatever the case, I dont think it would be fair to say RBS had done anything 
wrong in how they handled the outstanding payment once it decided to close Mr Ds 
account.
One of the complaints raised by Mr D against RBS was that it had failed to call him back 
when it said it would. Mr D didnt raise that point in his complaint to this service as he was 
more concerned by the late payment marker on his credit file. But I note that RBS accepted 
it hadnt done what it said it would and apologised for that poor service. It also gave Mr D 
£100 by way of apologising for any stress or inconvenience caused, although it looks as 
though it later increased that to £150. Either way, I think the amount it paid is fair and 
reasonable for the impact caused.
RBS has also acknowledged it made a mistake in recording a second missed payment on 
Mr Ds credit file. It explained why that had happened, apologised and removed the data 
from his record. It also paid him £75 to say sorry for what had happened. Again, I think that 
amount is fair and reasonable. I recognise Mr D doesnt agree but I havent seen any evidence that second marker caused any wider financial impact. While there was a potential 
for that to happen, I dont think it would be fair to ask RBS to pay compensation for 
something that could have happened.
In summary, RBS provided some poor service to Mr D but Im satisfied its done enough to 
put matters right. It acknowledged it should have called him back when it said it would and 
its apologised for a mistake that meant a second late payment marker was added to his 
credit file. But Im satisfied the apologies, the explanations and the compensation its paid for 
these mistakes provide a fair and reasonable resolution to those parts of his complaint. 
Mr Ds main concern was that it wasnt fair for RBS to add the first late payment marker to 
his account. RBS was satisfied it followed its correct procedures in doing that and, from the 
information Ive seen and for the reasons Ive set out above, I think thats a fair assessment. 
My final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has taken action to settle the complaint, as set out above, 
and I think that action is fair in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman