DRN-3565878
The complaint
Company M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to prevent them losing out 
financially as a result of an authorised push payment (APP) fraud.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at
length here. 
Briefly, as I understand it, in August 2020 M received an email from a known supplier about 
an outstanding invoice. There was some discrepancy in the amount and so M called the 
supplier to confirm the correct amount. After this call M received the invoice through an email 
for the correct amount, which was £11,246.40.
Two hours later M received another email purportedly from their supplier stating that due to 
an overdue loan payment the supplier wasnt able to accept the payment into their usual 
bank account. The email asked M whether they could pay to an altogether different bank 
account. The account was with Monzo and the email said that this account was the bank 
account of the suppliers bookkeeper. 
M went ahead and made the payment as advised. Unfortunately, the latest email was from a 
fraudster who had intercepted the exchanges between M and the genuine supplier. The 
fraud came to light few weeks later when the genuine supplier contacted M for the payment. 
M immediately contacted their bank who in turn contacted Monzo but no funds remained in 
the account. 
M said that Monzo didnt help prevent their loss and that the bank allowed a fraudster to 
open an account in the first place. Monzo responded to say that it had opened the account 
correctly and followed its procedures and regulatory guidelines. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and said that it should be upheld. They 
said, in summary:
The Contingent Reimbursement Model code (the CRM code) didnt apply in this case as 
M isnt a micro-enterprise.
They havent seen anything suspicious at the time of account opening to have alerted 
Monzo to the fact that the account would later be used for fraudulent purposes.
However, the activities on the recipients account following the receipt of the funds from 
M were unusual compared to the previous activities on the account. The bank had an 
opportunity to look at what was going on when the third payment out of the account was 
attempted. Had it looked at the ongoing activities at the time more closely, there were 
adequate reasons for it to be suspicious and that would have led to the fraud coming to 
light. As such the bank missed an opportunity here to prevent further losses to M. 
Therefore, it is fair that it reimburses M for those losses. 
That said, there was some contributory negligence on part of M. The fraudsters email 
came within the same chain with the genuine supplier and as such M had no idea that it 
was corresponding with a fraudster. However, M had spoken to the actual supplier over 
phone just two hours prior to the intercepted email and there was no mention of any 
issue with their bank account by the supplier. Nor was this mentioned when the supplier 
sent the revised invoice to M following the call. So, when another email came soon after, 
citing difficulties in accepting the money into their account due to overdue loan payment 
that ought to have raised questions. In addition, the email asked that the payment is 
made to the personal account of the bookkeeper which too was highly unusual. In these 
circumstances it would have been reasonable for M to have contacted the supplier 
verbally on a trusted source to verify the request and payment details. And if this had 
happened, the scam could have been discovered earlier. Therefore, it is fair that they 
take some responsibility for the loss.
Taking all the above into account, a fair resolution to the complaint would be that Monzo 
reimburses £4,425.21 (this being 50% of the funds that would have remained had Monzo 
intervened at the third outgoing payment), together with interest on that amount. 
The investigator later amended their opinion to say that in this instance no interest need be 
paid because M has not yet paid the supplier  though they say that they have very recently 
started a payment plan with the supplier.  
M agreed with investigators opinion. Monzo did not. In summary, it said: 
Though the investigator has said that the complaint isnt covered under the CRM code, 
they seem to have applied the provisions of the code here to arrive at their conclusions. 
There is no precedent to suggest that a beneficiary bank should be liable for a payment 
except the CRM code.
Due consideration should be given to any failure on part of M and their bank to prevent 
the loss.
The bank reiterated that its systems acted as expected and there wasnt anything flagged on 
its systems for it to intervene. It said that the fact that its customer made a higher than usual 
payment doesnt automatically mean that it ought to have been flagged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator essentially for the 
same reasons.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding what is 
fair and reasonable in this case. But that is not the end of the story. Monzo also has an 
ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to accounts with it. Specifically, Im 
mindful that it:  must conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for 
Businesses 2);
must fairly and reasonably been monitoring accounts and any payments made or 
received to counter various risks including anti-money laundering and preventing fraud 
and scams. These requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive 
policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage risk, e.g. through customer due-
diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship including 
through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the relationship;
must have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate risk of fraud. This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years.
Ultimately, it is a matter for the bank as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  
However where it is alleged that it didnt do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an 
APP fraud, I will look into the circumstances of the case and decide, based on what I have 
seen, whether in that case Monzo could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
The bank has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate this. I am 
limited as to how much information I can share because it relates to a third-party account. 
But Id like to assure that Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision. 
Having reviewed the submissions, I agree with the investigator that Monzo could have done 
more here. I note Monzos submission that a higher than usual payment may not 
automatically be a trigger. However, I see that several large payments (compared to the 
previous transactions) went out of the account, in quick succession. And that was on the 
back of an unusually large payment coming in.  Further, Monzo had an opportunity to look 
more closely at what was going on when their customer attempted the third payment as that 
was specifically brought to its attention, as explained by the investigator. Had it done so, it 
would have noticed the unusually large incoming payment which wasnt compatible with 
what their customer said at the time of the opening of the account. This would have 
prompted further investigation and the fraud would have come to light. As such the bank 
missed an opportunity here to prevent further losses to M. Therefore, it is fair that it 
reimburses M for those losses.
Monzo says that due consideration should be given for any failure on part of M and their 
bank to prevent the loss to M. I see that the investigator has already explained that they had 
reviewed the compliant about Ms bank and had concluded that it hadnt done anything 
wrong in this instance and that was accepted by M. 
As regards M, I agree that there was some contributory negligence on their part for the 
reasons explained by the investigator and so it is fair that they share some of the losses. But 
I must reiterate here that it is still the case that Monzo too failed to prevent the loss to M, as 
explained above. So, I consider it fair that both parties share the liability equally in this case. 
Monzo says that the investigator has confirmed that the complaint isnt covered under the 
CRM code but yet they have applied the provisions of the code here to arrive at their 
conclusions. It also says that there is no precedent to suggest that a beneficiary bank should 
be liable for a payment except the CRM code.
It is correct that M isnt eligible to be covered under the CRM code as they are not a 
micro-enterprise. However, M is a small business for the purposes of our dispute resolution 
rules and have the necessary relationship under DISP 2.7.6(2B)(R) to complain to us about Monzo. That is because they transferred funds as a result of an alleged authorised push 
payment fraud and Monzo was involved in the transfer of funds as the receiving bank. 
And where we consider a complaint, we will determine it by reference to what is in our 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. In doing so, it may be that 
in this instance we arrived at a conclusion that is similar to an outcome under the CRM code 
but that is not to say that we applied the CRM code. 
Further, as previously noted, even though the CRM code didnt apply here, this doesnt 
remove Monzos responsibility to identify and respond to signs of possible fraud. Im satisfied 
that there should have been an intervention here for the reasons explained and, if there had 
been, the fraud would likely have been uncovered, preventing Ms losses.
M told us that it hasnt yet paid the supplier and has only recently started a payment plan 
with them. Thus, though M has lost its funds, from what I can see, they havent yet suffered 
any additional loss on being deprived of those funds. So, I agree that it wouldnt be fair to 
award interest in this instance.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Monzo Bank Ltd should pay 
£4,425.21 (less any money already returned).
If this sum isnt paid to M within one month of Monzo Bank Ltd getting notification from us of 
Ms acceptance of this decision, then Monzo should also pay M simple interest on any 
outstanding sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the date Monzo 
pays M the relevant amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman