DRN-3519667
The complaint
Mrs M complains that AIG Life Limited declined a life assurance claim she made for her 
husband, Mr M. 
Although Mrs M has been assisted by a third party in raising this complaint, for ease of 
reference, my decision will refer to her only. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In December 2011 Mr and Mr M applied for life assurance with a firm that AIG Life has since 
acquired liability for. The policy was set up over a twenty-year term and provided £400,000 
of level cover.  
Mr M sadly died in December 2020 and so a claim was made under the policy. AIG Life 
declined the claim as they said Mr M misrepresented his health when he applied for the 
policy. They said Mr M ought to have disclosed in his application that hed visited his GP 
regarding anxiety and depression, for which he was using alcohol to cope, and been 
prescribed anti-depressant medication. And that hed also had investigations which included 
blood pressure readings, blood tests and liver function tests which were abnormal. AIG Life 
explained that had this medical history been disclosed, they wouldve declined Mr M cover. 
So, they avoided the policy and refunded the premiums paid. 
Mrs M complained but AIG Lifes position didnt change. They reiterated that they considered 
Mr M shouldve answered the application questions differently. And, had he done so, they 
wouldve declined his application. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator thought AIG Life had acted fairly 
by avoiding the policy and declining the claim. He likewise considered Mr M failed to 
accurately disclose his medical history when applying for cover  particularly in respect of 
the blood and liver function tests that he discussed with his GP in April 2011. Having seen 
AIG Lifes underwriting criteria, he was satisfied cover wouldnt have been offered had they 
know this information at the time of application. So, he didnt think AIG Life had to do 
anything further. 
Mrs M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been a very difficult time for Mrs M and that she considers AIG Lifes 
decision to decline the life assurance claim to be unfair. I want to assure Mrs M that Ive 
taken everything shes said in to account when making my decision. But what I must 
consider here is whether AIG Life acted fairly and in line with the relevant legislation and 
industry guidance applicable at the time the plan was sold - in this case, the ABI code of 
Practice on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly (ABI code). Having done so, Ive 
come to same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr M had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when applying for 
the policy. AIG Life has referred to multiple questions in which they consider Mr M failed to 
take reasonable care when answering. Ive looked at those that I consider most relevant.
Mr M was asked:
Are you under routine medical review or awaiting consultation with a specialist for 
any medical condition? (Examples can include but are not limited to all expected 
visits to your GP, a hospital doctor, consultant, psychiatrist, therapist or other visit to 
a clinic?)
Mr M answered this Yes and, in a follow up question, disclosed this related to an umbilical 
hernia. 
He was also asked:
Have you had any disorder of the liver, stomach, pancreas or bowel or recurrent 
indigestion or heartburn in the last 5 years? Please include gastric or duodenal ulcer, 
hepatitis and Crohns s disease
(Examples can include, but are not limited to, gastric or duodenal ulcers, hepatitis 
and Crohns disease)
and;
Apart from in connection with a condition youve already mentioned have you visited 
a medical practitioner or collected any prescribed medication in the last 2 years?
Mr M answered both questions No. 
Ive looked at Mr Ms medical records and, in March 2011, it shows he visited his GP 
regarding an anxiety and depression problem. The records say it had been a longstanding 
problem  18 months  and was linked to business difficulties as itd gone into administration 
the previous year. The records show Mr M told the GP he was using alcohol to cope. And 
that the GP prescribed anti-depressant medication for Mr M as well as arranging blood and 
liver function tests. 
In a two week follow up review, the records show Mr M discussed his raised liver function 
test results with the GP. Its also noted that Mr M had reduced his alcohol intake and had a 
plan to stop in the next two weeks. And that the medication would continue with another 
review planned. Mr M then saw his GP in May 2011 and the anti-depressant medication 
dosage was increased. Further GP entries in July and August 2011 note improvements in 
Mr Ms condition. 
Although Mr M disclosed his hernia condition, he didnt inform AIG Life that hed seen his GP 
about his mental health on several occasions in 2011. And that hed been told about raised 
(abnormal) liver function test results and been prescribed medication for his anxiety and depression. Ive therefore thought carefully about whether Mr M failed to take reasonable 
care by not disclosing this in his application.
Im satisfied AIG Life asked Mr M clear and specific questions. So, I think Mr M ought to 
have understood what was being asked of him and what information was relevant to AIG Life 
when applying. Given Mr M saw the GP on several occasions in 2011, relating to what Mr M 
considered a long-standing anxiety and depression problem, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that he wouldve been aware of it when he applied. And, as the medical records 
show the liver function tests were discussed alongside his alcohol consumption, I likewise 
consider Mr M wouldve known that hed had issues with his liver too. 
I understand Mrs M has said that her husband didnt take the prescribed anti-depressant 
medication. I cant be sure whether he did or not. But I think its likely he did take the 
medication as the GP increased the dosage in the May 2011 review  which suggests the 
original dose wasnt sufficient or having the desired effect. In any event, even if Mr M didnt 
take the medication, AIG Life asked Mr M whether  apart from in connection with a 
condition hed already mentioned - hed visited a medical practitioner or collected any 
prescribed medication in the last 2 years. Im satisfied Mr M did see a GP regarding a 
condition he hadnt previously disclosed in his application and I havent seen anything to 
show he didnt collect the prescribed medication. It follows that I think Mr M failed to take 
reasonable care by not disclosing this and so misrepresented his health when applying. 
AIG Lifes underwriting criteria shows that, had Mr M disclosed this medical history in the 
application, they wouldnt have offered cover. The ABI code provides three categories of 
misrepresentation  innocent, careless and deliberate or reckless. The actions taken by 
AIG Life  that being avoiding the policy, declining the claim and refunding the premiums  
are in line with the careless categorisation. Having considered Mr Ms misrepresentation(s), I 
think this is categorisation is reasonable. 
I understand Mrs Ms dissatisfaction that her policy has been avoided and the claim 
declined. But, given AIG Life has refunded the premiums, Im satisfied theyve acted fairly 
and in line with the ABI code. I know this isnt the outcome Mrs M is hoping for but, because 
of this, I dont think they do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman