DRN-2081544
The complaint
Mr D says PDL Finance Limited trading at the time as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
In July 2020, I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint about loan 2.
A summary of my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of my final decision:
This complaint is about two loans Mr Lender provided to Mr D between October 2017 and May 2018. 
Mr Ds borrowing history is set out on the table below as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 01/10/2017 21/05/2018 6 £500.00 £190.00 1
2 25/05/2018 10/01/2019 6 £500.00 £191.33 1
In its final response to Mr D, Mr Lender didn't uphold his complaint. It said it carried out all checks in 
line with its responsible lending policies and regulatory guidelines. It said it was unable to ascertain 
how the issued loans didn't meet its responsible lending criteria and in fact exceeded the required 
responsible lending standards. It offered to give Mr D a voucher for £25.
Our adjudicator didn't think this was a complaint which should be upheld. He told Mr D that he didn't 
think the loan amounts, the number of loans or the period over which Mr D was borrowing would have 
shown that he was experiencing financial difficulty. He also explained that based on the information 
Mr Lender had seen there was nothing which might have meant it was proportionate to verify what Mr 
D had declared or ask for further information.
Mr D disagreed with this view. He said although he agreed there were only two loans, he still had a 
large amount owing to other payday lenders, £5,000 overdraft with the bank, £3,500 owing on credit 
cards and a bank loan. He said his credit rating was poor, and he was addicted to gambling. Mr 
Lender should have seen the level of debt before lending  this was irresponsible lending.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With 
this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether 
Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Im intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 2. I will 
explain why.
When Mr D took out his first loan it was early in the lending relationship with Mr Lender. I wouldn't 
have expected Mr Lender to undertake a full review of Mr Ds circumstances. In this case when 
looking at the checks Mr Lender carried out and thinking about what it knew about Mr Ds 
circumstances from those checks, I think the checks it did were proportionate, and I dont think it 
would have needed to verify what Mr D was saying.
Mr D told Mr Lender that he was living at home and his income was £2,450 and his expenses totalled 
£601 per month. This was made up of his mortgage/rent of £75, food/travel of £90, 
telecommunications of £45, loans of £275 and other regular outgoings of £116. This left Mr D with a 
reported disposable income of £1,849. I can also see that there was no indication of insolvency or a 
poor borrowing history which Mr Lender would have been alerted to from the checks it carried out as 
there were no previous loans with Mr Lender. It also said it took into account Mr Ds other declared 
short-term loans with this application.
It seems to me that the checks Mr Lender carried out would likely have indicated Mr D was in a 
position to afford the loan he committed to. However, as it happened in November 2017 Mr Ds 
repayment was deferred and a payment arrangement was set up. Mr D repaid this loan later than 
agreed. Mr Lender appears to have applied a discount which meant Mr D did not pay back more, and 
he repaid this loan within seven months. I cant say loan 1 was irresponsibly provided and I dont 
intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
I have next gone on to consider loan 2. I have considered it in the context of Mr Ds payment 
arrangement for loan 1 and the fact that this was taken out only a few days after the first loan had 
been repaid for the same amount.When it gave Mr D his second loan, he told Mr Lender he had a net income of £2,450 and again he 
listed his expenses as £601, leaving him with a disposable income of £1,849 - the same amount as 
he had indicated he had when Mr Lender gave loan 1.
From its own records, Mr Lender would have been aware that there had been one deferral in repaying 
Mr Ds first loan. It was also aware that it had made a payment arrangement for loan 1 which had just 
been repaid a few days before loan 2 was given. I can see from Mr Lenders records that Mr D had 
applied for £800 but was only eligible for £500 based on the assessments Mr Lender carried out.
I can also see Mr Lender had noted for loan 1, Upon informing us of financial difficulty, Mr Lender 
supported Mr D by setting up an affordable repayment plan and also applied a discount of £120.66.
For loan 2 Mr Lender asked some further questions of Mr D. It referred to the previous loan being paid 
for through a payment plan and asked him if his situation had improved and also asked whether he 
was in any financial difficulty or whether he was dependent on any short-term loans amongst some 
other questions. Mr D didn't indicate he had any financial problems in his response to Mr Lenders 
questions. But taking into account his previous history Im provisionally satisfied that this time there 
was enough reason for Mr Lender to have carried out a full financial review of Mr Ds circumstances. 
So Mr Lender needed to verify the information that Mr D was providing.
Mr Lender couldve gone about doing this several ways. It couldve asked for evidence of his income 
in the way of a wage slip or it couldve obtained information about his outgoings via copies of bills. 
But, in this case, Mr D has provided a copy of a credit report which covers the period of the second 
loan. So, I dont think it is unreasonable to rely on the information I can see in his credit report.
If it had done a full review of Mr Ds financial circumstances, I think it would have become aware that 
in March Mr D had taken out an unsecured loan for over £3,000 for which there was a regular monthly 
repayment of £50. He had an unsecured loan of £750 with a regular repayment of £270 monthly. He 
had also had several other short-term loans and other unsecured loans within a short time before he 
began borrowing with Mr Lender. Mr D was consistently using other forms of high cost credit.
On top of this he had a number of open credit cards, a catalogue account and a phone bill. So, if Mr 
Lender had done some further searches and investigated Mr Ds financial position more thoroughly as 
I think it ought to have done, for the reasons Ive explained, I think it would have seen that the 
repayment for this loan was unsustainable. I dont think Mr Lender would have given Mr D his second 
loan.
If Mr Lender had looked more carefully at Mr Ds circumstances in May 2018, I dont think its likely it 
would have given Mr D his second loan. So as things stand, Im intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint 
about loan 2.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wished me to 
consider before I made my final decision.
Mr D initially said he accepted my decision. Later he said that although he accepted my 
decision, he also wanted to request that Mr Lender remove loan 2 from his credit file entirely.Mr Lender also replied. It said it felt it would be disproportionate to carry out a full final review 
on Mr Ds second loan. Instead it said it had asked various assessment questions as an 
alternative, in order to establish if Mr Ds financial position had improved. It set out Mr Ds 
responses to its various questions and based on the answers Mr D gave, Mr Lender said it 
established that he was not in any financial difficulty during the previous loan. However, it 
was due to a change in his pay date which had thrown his finances out. Mr Lender said in 
response to my provisional decision, that as a result of Mr Ds explanation for his entering 
into a payment arrangement it did not feel a full financial review was necessary.
Mr Lender also explained although Mr D had initially applied for a higher amount, to give Mr 
D the loan he had requested would not have been proportionate. Its decision to cap loan 2 to 
the same amount as loan 1 was made to ensure Mr D could repaid this back without 
difficulty.
I have thought carefully about what both parties have said.
Looking first at Mr Lenders response to my provisional decision, I dont agree with what it 
has told me. In my provisional decision, I explained why a full financial review should have 
been carried out, even though it had asked several questions of Mr D.
In my provisional decision, I referred to the questions it had asked Mr D. I found that 
notwithstanding his responses, Mr Lender should nevertheless have carried out some further 
checks. In my provisional decision I said, Mr D had previously informed Mr Lender of 
financial difficulty and this had been noted by Mr Lender. I also found that Mr D had repaid 
loan 1 only a few days before loan 2 was given. I said because of his previous account 
history more financial checks were necessary. If these had been carried out then as I also 
explained in my provisional decision, Mr Lender would have become aware that Mr D had 
several short-term loans, other unsecured loans and was consistently using high cost credit. 
Alongside his other commitments such as a telephone bill, open credit card accounts and a 
catalogue account Mr Lender would have likely realised that the repayment for loan 2 was 
unsustainable.
So, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision that loan 2 
should be upheld.
Turning now to Mr Ds concern that Loan 2 should be wiped from his credit report entirely.
To explain; in considering what Mr Lender needed to do to put things right, I looked at how to 
put Mr D in the position he would be in if Mr Lender hadnt made an error. 
In this case Mr D still had to repay the money he received for loan 2. What I dont think is fair 
is for Mr D to have repaid the interest, fees or charges on this loan or have it impact Mr D in 
a negative way. So, I have asked Mr Lender to calculate a refund of interest, fees and 
charges for loan 2 which I have said it shouldnt have given (plus 8% simple interest) and 
then remove negative information (for example, late payment markers or defaults) about 
loan 2 from Mr Ds credit records. However, as Mr D still had use of the money then Mr 
Lender does not need to wipe the whole record of the loan from Mr Ds credit file.
So, I uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 2.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
 refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan 2; pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mr Ds credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited should put 
things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman