DRN-1495314
The complaint
Ms D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave her unsuitable 
mortgage advice in 2011. She says their failure to assess the affordability of the mortgage in 
retirement led to her selling her property and incurring costs which she wants to be 
reimbursed.
What happened
In June 2011 Ms D was advised to take out a two-year fixed rate mortgage with an 18-year 
term. The mortgage completed on 1 September 2011 and, at this time, Ms D was 52 years 
and 5 months old. And so, the mortgage term would run until Ms D was 70 years and 5 
months old.
In July 2013, with the fixed rate period coming to an end, Ms D completed an online product 
switch to a new two-year fixed rate mortgage. This fixed rate ran until the end of October 
2015. Ms D sold her property in January 2015 prior to the product term coming to an end. 
Because of this, she incurred an early redemption fee of about £1650.
NatWest wrote to Ms D in February 2019 explaining that, following an internal review, theyd 
found that their records for some customers didnt full demonstrate how they intended to 
maintain mortgage payments after they reached age 65 (normal retirement age). And so, 
they offered Ms D the opportunity for them to review the advice she received.
Ms D agreed to the review and, after NatWest spoke with her in late March 2019, they set 
out their findings in a letter of 30 April 2019. They explained Ms D confirmed in the original 
advice call that she wanted the mortgage to run until age 70 to give greater flexibility as she 
intended to buy another property. And that she was able to work up until age 70 with her 
income expected to remain the same until then. 
NatWest said the advice for the term of the mortgage to go past Ms Ds retirement age of 70 
was unsuitable. But, as Ms D had since moved property and redeemed the mortgage, the 
issue of the term going in to her retirement no longer applied. And so, NatWest didnt think 
this had been detrimental to Ms D or that shed suffered a financial loss as a result. They did 
however send a cheque for £200 for any inconvenience Ms D experienced during the 
review.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked in to it but he didnt think 
NatWest had to do anything further. He said, while the term of the mortgage exceeded Ms 
Ds 70th birthday by 5 months, had she not moved property prior to this happening then the 
financial detriment wouldve likely been minimal. And so, he thought the £200 compensation 
was enough. He also explained that he didnt think NatWest should be responsible for the 
early redemption fee as this was a result of the online product switch Ms D completed and 
which wouldve been made clear at the time. 
Ms D disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Ds dissatisfaction with being told the mortgage advice given to her in 2011 
was unsuitable. But, while that might be true, it doesnt necessarily follow that financial 
compensation is warranted. This is because the impact of the unsuitable advice and what 
Ms D may have done differently (if anything), needs to be taken in to account.  And having 
carefully considered this matter, I dont think NatWest has to do anything further. Ill explain 
why.
NatWests records support their position that Ms D confirmed her intention to work until 70 
years of age. It isnt however clear how Ms D was going to afford the repayments for the five 
months after her 70th birthday. For this reason, NatWest considered the 18-year mortgage 
term recommendation was unsuitable. Ive considered the impact of this on Ms D and, given 
it exceeded her 70th birthday by only a short period, I think its likely the impact wouldve 
been minimal. I also wouldve expected NatWest to have acted in a supportive manner if Ms 
D experienced any financial difficulties due to the mortgage term. 
It is possible Ms D may have made a different decision in respect of her mortgage term had 
her affordability in retirement been covered by the advisor. But while I cant be sure what she 
wouldve done, I think its more likely than not that she wouldve chose a 17-year term 
mortgage to allow for it to be repaid before her 70th birthday.
In any event, I think what is relevant here is that Ms D chose to sell the property in 2015  
less than fours year after the 2011 advice. And the early redemption fee she incurred was as 
a result of redeeming the mortgage prior to the end of the two-year fixed rate she set up 
online in 2013. Im therefore not persuaded the term of the mortgage was the cause of these 
costs as they wouldve been chargeable regardless of whether it was set up over a shorter 
term. 
Ms D says she decided to sell the property and downsize as a result of the mortgage term 
passing her retirement age. But if Ms D wanted to pay it off sooner, she couldve contacted 
NatWest to discuss the options available to her. I cant see that this happened. I also dont 
think I can fairly conclude the term of the mortgage being set up over a longer period put a 
greater financial burden on her as the monthly repayments were lower because of this. 
I understand Ms D is unhappy that NatWest didnt contact her for any evidence of financial 
loss and so she questions their investigation process. Although Ive noted her concerns, Im 
satisfied shes been provided the opportunity to provide this to our service and for my 
consideration. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that shes suffered a 
financial loss through incurring the early redemption fee - and other associated moving costs 
 as a result of the 2011 advice. 
NatWest sent Ms D a cheque for £200 for any inconvenience she experienced during the 
review. I think this amount is fair in the circumstances and so Im not increasing it further.  
I know this isnt the outcome Ms D is hoping for. But for the reasons Ive explained I dont 
think NatWest needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman