DRN-3425335
The complaint
Mrs W complains about a decision taken by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) to 
decline a claim she made to it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75).
Mrs W is represented in her complaint by a third party. But for ease Ill simply refer to Mrs W 
in this decision and not the third party.
What happened
Mrs W disputes the quality of some work undertaken on her car in March 2021 by a garage 
that I will call P. The work, in the main, related to the supply and fitting of a power steering 
pump. The cost of the work was £509.68.  For reasons not material to this complaint, what 
was debited to Mrs Ws credit card was £544.68 (not £509.68) split across two separate 
transactions (£235.00 on 5 March 2021 and £309.68 on 27 March 2021).
On 10 May 2021 Mrs W completed a Barclaycard disputed Transaction Claim Form. She 
said the amount of her claim was £509.68. 
On 14 June 2021 Barclaycard submitted a chargeback claim against P.
On 15 June 2021 Barclaycard credited Mrs Ws credit card with £544.68 (£235.00 and 
£309.68) whilst her chargeback claim was being by considered by P.
On, or around, 24 June 2021 Mrs W took her car to another garage for inspection and repair. 
The invoice in respect of this work states that the work undertaken included repairing the 
power steering pump leak.
On 9 July 2021 P defended the chargeback claim and Barclaycard took the decision not to 
make a second presentment. 
Barclaycard then decided to see whether it might be liable to Mrs W under section 75 and if 
so for what sum. However, it concluded that it wasnt.
On 17 August 2021 Barclaycard reversed the £309.68 credit it posted to Mrs Ws credit 
card on 15 June 2021.
Unhappy with Barclaycards declinature of her section 75 claim Mrs W referred matters to 
our service.
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Barclaycard had done nothing wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs W has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs W will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
chargeback
Mrs W hasnt specifically complained about Barclaycards failure to secure a chargeback for 
the two payments made of £309.68 and £235.00. But for the sake of completeness I think its 
appropriate for me to comment on this.
When Mrs W first raised her dispute with Barclaycard it considered it under the Visa 
chargeback scheme. This is a scheme which looks to resolve payment disputes between 
(Visa) card holders and merchants. 
The chargeback process works by Barclaycard raising a dispute with the merchant (in this 
case P). The merchant is then given an opportunity to defend the chargeback. If the 
chargeback is defended, a second presentment of the chargeback can be attempted if the 
consumer provides further evidence, which the merchant is entitled to also defend. The final 
step would be for the card scheme operator (Visa) to arbitrate on the matter if no resolution 
can be found. 
Its important to note that Barclaycard has no obligation to process a chargeback or pursue it 
further through the chargeback process. However, I would consider it good practice for it to 
pursue a chargeback when requested, as long as it was possible to do so (within the 
limitations of the scheme rules) and there was a reasonable prospect of success. 
The chargeback process is intended for quick informal resolution of straightforward payment 
disputes. I think the dispute subject to this complaint isnt straightforward, with both Mrs W 
and P having made substantive arguments in support of their respective views on the matter. 
So, taking everything into account I dont think Barclaycard acted unreasonably in not 
making a second presentment of the chargeback, or proceeding to arbitration. 
section 75
Mrs W has specifically complained about Barclaycards decision to decline her section 75 
claim, and its this I will now address.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. Section 75 says that in certain circumstances, the borrower (Mrs W) under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider (Barclaycard) as against the 
supplier (P) if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (P). 
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint. But I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs W made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. In essence Mrs Ws section 75 claim was made up of four elements:
the unsatisfactory quality of the power steering pump
the unsatisfactory fitting of the power steering pump
damage caused to her drive as a result of the above
damage caused to her windscreen by Ps fitting (or refitting) of her interior rear view 
mirror
damaged windscreen
Mrs W says that P cracked her windscreen when fitting (or refitting) her interior rear view 
mirror. Now I dont dispute there is a crack on the windscreen and its situated in the area of 
the interior rear view mirror. But Im not persuaded Barclaycard did anything wrong in 
declining this aspect of Mrs Ws claim. I say this because based on what both parties have 
said and submitted Im not persuaded this was something that Mrs W was ever charged for 
by P, or at least it wasnt something she ever paid for when paying the sums of £309.68 and 
£235.00 that she did to P using her credit card.
damaged drive
Mrs W says that due to the unsatisfactory quality of the power steering pump and the 
unsatisfactory fit of the same, damage has been caused to her drive in the form of oil stains.
Now again I dont dispute that there is oil stains on Mrs Ws drive. But I dont think 
Barclaycard did anything wrong in declining this aspect of Mrs Ws claim. I say this given that 
P has submitted that oil stains were already present on Mrs Ws drive before the power 
steering pump was fitted and that the car, when returned to Mrs W, was suffering two other 
unrelated oil leaks. Furthermore, I think its entirely plausible that oil on Mrs Ws drive was as 
a result of the original power steering pump needing repair or replacement rather than as a 
result of anything P did or failed to do.
power steering pump
It was an implied term of Mrs Ws contract with P that the power steering pump would be of 
satisfactory quality and satisfactorily fitted.
Now its not clear whether P accepts the power steering pump (and the fitting of it) was 
unsatisfactory. But I need to make no finding on this point. I say this because even if I was to 
accept the power steering pump (and the fitting of it) was unsatisfactory Ps offer to repair 
means there is no breach of contract for Barclaycard (under section 75) to remedy.
other matters
Mrs W says that after she received the two credits of £235.00 and £309.68 from Barclaycard 
on 15 June 2021 she went ahead and had the power steering pump looked at and repaired 
by another garage, adding to her losses. But Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude that 
this is something Barclaycard should be held responsible for. For example, Ive seen no 
documentary evidence that Barclaycard advised Mrs W that these two credits were 
permanent and couldnt be reversed at some point in the future. Furthermore, I think its 
worth pointing out that despite P raising a defence to Barclaycards two chargebacks, 
meaning that Barclaycard, everything else being equal, would have been in its rights to 
reverse both credits (£235.00 and £309.68), it never reversed the credit for £235.00.Mrs W says that P hasnt caried out the promised repair to the power steering pump. This 
might be the case, but I dont think this means Barclaycard is now liable to Mrs W under 
section 75. I say this because I dont believe it would be appropriate to hold Barclaycard 
liable for this given that since P agreed to undertake a repair Mrs W has had matters looked 
at and repaired (albeit unsuccessfully it seems) by another garage.
Mrs W says P undertook to provide her with a new power steering pump but provided her 
with a reconditioned one.
I accept that the (relevant) invoice makes reference to a new power steering pump. But 
given the age of the car and what Mrs W has herself said and submitted, Im satisfied that 
she understood that parts for the car were scarce and it would be very difficult, if not 
impossible, to source a new power steering pump. I also think that the (relevant) invoice 
could reasonably be interpreted to mean that  P would supply (and fit) a power steering 
pump that was new to the car, not new in itself.
I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed but taking everything into account Im not persuaded 
that in the particular circumstances of this case Barclaycard did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint/
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman