DRN-2855194
The complaint
Mr S has complained about rectification repairs carried out to his car by an approved
repairer (AR) of esure Insurance Limited when he made a claim under his car insurance
policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim for damage to his car following an incident in 2018. esure arranged for
the repairs to be carried out by an AR. Mr S was unhappy with some of the repairs and
raised a complaint with esure. esure asked an independent assessor (IA) to look at Mr Ss
car. He identified further repairs and esure agreed for these to be done. So in February 2019
esure upheld Mr Ss complaint and paid him £250 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused. The IA approved the completed rectification repairs carried out by
the AR in February 2019.
This complaint isnt being considered by this service  but it explains the background to the
complaint Mr S brought to us in October 2020 about further issues which happened after
February 2019.
In October 2019 Mr S contacted esure. He said his car was going back to the AR as he
remained unhappy with the repairs. He told esure he had to pay for temporary insurance for
a replacement car while his car was being repaired.
esure asked Mr S to provide proof of the temporary insurance he paid for so that it could
consider reimbursing him. But Mr S didnt provide any proof.
In February 2020 Mr S contacted esure again. He said hed been back to the AR 19 times
and the repairs were still not right. Mr S said he was unhappy with the IA esure had
previously instructed. So esure instructed a different IA to inspect Mr Ss car.
The second IA reported on five areas which Mr S was unhappy about. In summary these
were that there was poor paintwork, colour match and overspray. Mr S said there was an
area of corrosion to the right rear wheel arch which he says was caused by poor paintwork
repairs. Mr S said it wasnt there before.
The second IA reported that the colour match was due to the car being 15 years old and so
the existing paintwork to the car that didnt need repair had dulled. And that Mr S had chosen
the colour match beforehand. So he said this was something the AR wasnt responsible for.
He said the only way this could be resolved would be to respray the entire car, which wasnt
covered by esure.
The second IA found that there was overspray to the tonneau cover trim. esure agreed to
cover the costs to rectify this. esure also agreed to cover repairs to a rear sill skirt. The
second IA reported that paint moulding to a rear door was minor and expected, due to the
blending of the paintwork.
The second IA said there was a dispute about the corrosion damage to the right rear wheel
arch. The AR said the corrosion was there before they started repairs. Mr S said it wasnt
and said the corrosion occurred because the AR had painted the area too thinly.
Mr S didnt accept the second IAs findings and complained to esure.
In October 2020 esure replied to Mr Ss complaint. esure said that in February 2019 it had
discussed the corrosion issue with Mr S. While it was agreed for the AR to carry out paint
rectification repairs to the right rear wheel arch, esure had explained that the only way the
corrosion issue could be resolved would be to replace the panel. As the corrosion issue
wasnt incident related, esure had told Mr S in February 2019 that it wouldnt cover this. In
this call, Mr S had acknowledged there was some bubbling to the paintwork, given the age of
his car. But he didnt accept that this was due to corrosion.
esure acknowledged that some rectification repairs reported by the second IA were still
needed. So to put things right, esure offered a cash settlement for those repairs  and as a
goodwill gesture it included in the cash offer the cost to repaint the corroded right rear wheel
arch area for a final time. esure said Mr S could use the cash settlement to arrange repairs
with a garage of his choice as he wasnt satisfied with the works done by the AR. The cash
settlement came to £808 including VAT.
esure told Mr S that the AR said hed visited the garage twice since February 2019. So it
asked Mr S to provide further details, dates and times so it could consider this issue further.
And it said it would consider an alternative quote from Mr S for the rectification repairs if
provided.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He said the amount esure
offered isnt enough to resolve the issues with his car. He said he obtained a quote for
£4,000 to carry out repairs.
Our investigator thought that esure had mostly done enough to put things right. He thought
the cash offer settlement was the fairest way to resolve matter and was in line with esures
policy on how it decides to settle a claim for repairs.
However, he thought esure should  subject to reasonable proof  reimburse Mr S for the
costs in calls and travel costs for necessary visits to the AR after February 2019. He thought
esure should pay interest at our nominal rate on any reimbursed costs.
The investigator thought that because some rectification repairs were identified since
February 2019, esure should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Both parties disagreed with the investigators view. Mr S said he wanted esure to pay him
£1,400 which is the price he paid for the car two months before the incident.
esure provided a second estimate to show that the difference in the cash settlement - by
including the goodwill repairs to the corroded rear wheel arch - was £327.52. So esure says
it has addressed compensating Mr S for the inconvenience of having to go back for further
repairs by including non-incident related repairs in the cash settlement.
esure said Mr S hasnt provided any evidence of going back to the AR 19 times. But it said in
its reply to his complaint that it would consider this with further information. esure said if Mr S
had provided further information, it would have considered compensating him for the distress
and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator told esure he thought the cash settlement included a betterment payment
and was separate to compensating Mr S for distress and inconvenience. And he explained
to Mr S that he didnt think the right outcome was for esure to pay the price he paid for the
car. So he didnt change his view.As both parties remained unhappy, I reviewed the complaint. I issued a provisional decision 
on 28 April 2021. I thought that overall esure had done enough to put things right. But I gave 
both parties the opportunity to provide further information before making a final decision. 
esure didnt provide any comments. Mr S didnt agree. In summary he says the wheel arch 
wasnt rusty before the incident. esures settlement doesnt cover the repairs needed to his 
car. He said the car was in immaculate condition before the incident -and reiterated that he 
visited the AR 19 times. 
Mr S says he doesnt understand what the £327.52 amount is for. He says his car needs a 
lot of respraying to get a match. Mr S wants esure to settle the claim by paying him £1,400 
which is what he paid for the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
having done so, there isnt any new information to persuade me that esure has acted 
unreasonably. So my final decision is along the lines of my provisional decision.
I think esure properly considered all of the issues Mr S raised when it replied to his complaint
in October 2020. Copies of the report from the second IA and a breakdown of the estimates
including and excluding repainting to the right rear wheel arch have also been provided by
esure. I cant see that Mr S has provided any evidence to esure or us to support his
complaint and claim for losses. I think esures decision to instruct a second IA was
reasonable when Mr S raised further concerns in February 2020. Without any conflicting
evidence available  I think esure reasonably relied on the opinion of the second IA and
agreed to cover the costs of the rectification repairs he reported.
So my decision focuses on two key remaining issues. Mr S believes esure should have
replaced the panel rather than carry out paint repairs to the right rear wheel arch. He says
the AR applied the paint too thinly and this caused corrosion. He wants esure to pay him
£1,400 which is the price he paid for the car in 2018.
The other issue is whether esure has done enough to compensate Mr S for the
inconvenience of going back to the AR and having further rectification repairs identified.
I dont think its fair for us to uphold Mr Ss complaint in part by recommending esure
reimburse Mr S for losses incurred by necessary trips to the AR  subject to proof. I say this
because when esure replied to Mr Ss complaint in October 2020, it asked him to provide
further details. So I think esure properly considered this complaint  but had no proof to
support Mr Ss account that hed had to visit the AR 19 times. The AR told esure Mr S had
visited twice since February 2019 to deal with issues related to the right rear wheel arch.
These were repairs which esure didnt accept responsibility for  which the second IA
supported.
So based on the information it had, esure offered for either the AR to carry out rectification
repairs or for Mr S to be paid a cash settlement to have the repairs carried out elsewhere.
esure wrote the following:
I asked our engineers to create an estimate to confirm the costs of rectifying the
remaining issues the (IAs name ) engineer has highlighted as being our
responsibility. Although, I dont believe were responsible to deal with the corrosionon the right rear wheel arch, for the reasons confirmed above, I asked our engineers
to include the repainting of this in their estimate.
We are offering to cover the cost of painting the rear arch lip one last time, in
recognition of the fact (engineer name) have highlighted there is some rectification
were liable to deal with. I do need to make it clear though, that this will be the final
time we, or (garage name), will offer to deal with the corrosion on the right rear wheel
arch.
So although esure didnt agree these included the wheel arch, it has included the estimated
cost to repaint this area in the cash settlement in recognition of the inconvenience Mr S was
caused by having further rectification repairs needed. So I think its fair to consider this when
looking at whether esure has done enough to resolve Mr Ss complaint.
The estimated costs to carry out the repairs to the wheel arch are £327.52. Excluding this
amount from the cash settlement would reduce it to £480.48. I appreciate that Mr S feels the 
£327.52 isnt enough to cover the repainting of the wheel arch. But he hasnt provided any 
information for esure  or me to consider and to show that their estimate is too low. 
If esure had settled Mr Ss claim by paying him a cash sum of £480.48, I would have 
considered this reasonable for the rectification repairs based on the evidence available. But I 
would have asked esure to pay Mr S compensation in the region of £200 for the 
inconvenience caused by having to contact esure again and in light of the fact that some 
incident related repairs hadnt been correctly repaired.
So as esure has instead included the costs of repairs it isnt covered to  and this comes to
more than the compensation I would have otherwise awarded - I think esure has addressed
the inconvenience its responsible for and offered a fair compensation amount.
As Ive said, as esure offered to consider further information provided by Mr S to support his
complaint  but none was provided  I think it acted in a reasonable way.
I think Mr S has had time and opportunities to provide evidence to support his complaint. 
Without any, I think esure has dealt with his complaint in a fair and reasonable way. esure is 
responsible for incident related repairs in the event of a claim. And it can decide to settle a 
claim by paying a cash sum. In this case I think that was a reasonable approach to take, 
given Mr Ss concerns with the work carried out by the AR. As the cash sum offered by 
esure included non- incident related repairs, I think overall this is a fair resolution to Mr Ss 
complaint. So I dont intend to ask esure to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman