DRN-1635109
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy a Simplyhealth Acccess cash plan policy didnt pay a funeral benefit after 
his wife passed away. He says Simplyhealth didnt explain that benefit would no longer be 
included when he made changes to his payment method in 2014. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had separate cash plans with Simplyhealth which Mr D paid for through his 
employers pay roll.  Each plan provided a funeral benefit of £750 (to be paid to the next of 
kin or the executor). In April 2014 Mr D got in touch with Simplyhealth to say hed be retiring. 
The adviser confirmed he could continue with the existing policies and pay for these by 
direct debit. She said shed send out a change form to him and he could complete that or call 
back. 
Mr D called back around a week later. During that call direct debit instructions were taken 
and his policy was amended to a Family Standard policy covering both him and Mrs D. This 
policy doesnt provide funeral benefit (or dental accident cover). Mr D was sent a letter that 
day which confirmed a request to change his policy details and said updated cover was 
detailed on his policy documents. 
Mr D made successful optical claims under the policy following this. In July 2019 he 
contacted Simplyhealth and said Mrs D had sadly passed away and he wanted to make a 
claim for funeral benefit. Simplyhealth said his plan didnt cover this. It believed this would 
have been highlighted to Mr D when the policy was amended and confirmation of the 
changes were sent following this. Mr D said all he was told about was the change to the 
payment method. 
Our investigator noted there was no call recording from when the policy was amended and a 
sales script provided by Simplyhealth dated from the following year. And he didnt think the 
other documentation sent at the time would have made it clear to Mr D what the changes to 
his plan were. He thought if that had been made clear to him hed have decided to retain his 
existing cover. So he thought funeral benefit should be paid in line with the plan that would 
have been in place  and that Simplyhealth should continue to provide benefit in line with the 
plan that Mr D would have had. 
Mr D agreed. Simplyhealth didnt and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Simplyhealth says when changes are made to a policy the adviser is required to go through 
any differences between the plans to ensure a customer can make an informed decision 
about whether to take the amended cover. It says that would include information about loss 
of benefits. So I dont think its in dispute that Mr D should have been told that his amended 
policy didnt include funeral benefit (or dental accident). 
The issue I need to decide is whether that was done here. Mr D says it wasnt. And as 
theres no recording of the call Mr D had with Simplyhealth when his policy was amended I 
cant be sure what was said. However, Simplyhealth has drawn attention to a cash plan to 
cash plan sales script which it says the adviser should have used. 
As our investigator noted that dates from 2015 and Simplyhealth hasnt been able to provide 
an earlier script. But in any case, even if I accept this is indicative of what should have 
happened in the call, I dont think it does show the changes to Mr Ds existing cover would 
have been made clear to him. I appreciate it prompts the adviser to go through the benefits 
of a new plan. Simplyhealth says as part of that the adviser would be expected to highlight 
any differences with an existing plan. But the script doesnt in fact tell them to do that. 
And the only specific reference to funeral benefit relates to where someone is switching from 
a cash plan that doesnt include that. That wasnt the case here. So even if that script (or 
something similar) was followed during this call it doesnt satisfy me the changes to funeral 
benefit would have been made clear to Mr D. 
Ive gone on to think about whether that would have been clear to Mr D from other 
information he was provided with. I can see that following the call Mr D was sent a letter 
confirming his request to change his policy details. However, that letter doesnt make any 
specific reference to the differences between the new policy and the previous one. I 
appreciate it did refer Mr D to the terms and conditions of the policy which contain a table 
showing cover available under various different policies. But the covering letter didnt explain 
which policy Mr D had taken out. So I dont think that would have been clear to him either.  
I also note that in a call to Simplyhealth a week earlier (which it has been able to provide a 
recording of) Mr D was told there was no reason why he couldnt continue with his existing 
policies and pay for these through direct debit. Mr D said thats what he wanted to do. I 
accept its possible he might then have changed his mind but I think hed have needed to 
see a benefit in the Family Standard policy that outweighed the loss of the other elements 
of his existing cover. And Im not clear what that would have been. 
Amending the cover did reduce the amount he was paying on a monthly basis. But the 
difference was small (under £3). And while there were some modest increases to the 
amounts he could claim under the new policy other limits went down. There was a more 
significant increase in new child payment but I dont think thats likely to have been of 
interest to Mr D. And in addition to no longer being able to claim funeral benefit for either him 
or Mrs D (a total of £1,500) the new policy didnt offer dental accident cover either. So it isnt 
obvious to me why Mr D would have taken out the Family Standard policy if the differences 
had been properly explained to him.  
I also note Mr D told Simplyhealth the funeral benefit was important to him and his wife and it 
had been a comfort to them in retirement. I appreciate he made that comment after finding 
out cover wasnt in place but in 2014 Mr D was about to retire and Mrs D was at least five 
years older than him. So it makes sense that this would be a benefit hed want to retain. It also appears that it would have been possible for Mr and Mrs D to keep their existing 
policies and simply change the payment method for these. In the initial call Mr D had with it 
the adviser said that would be possible and Simplyhealth has confirmed to us he could have 
continued with his existing arrangements which included funeral benefit.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out I dont think Simplyhealth provided clear information about the 
changes to Mr Ds policy during the call with him or in the information that was subsequently 
sent. And I think its most likely that if this had been properly explained Mr D would have 
retained his existing arrangements and only make changes to his payment method (in line 
with what he said in his first call with Simplyhealth). 
If hed done that I think cover would have been place that would have provided funeral 
benefit to him as next of kin when Mrs D passed away. So I think that benefit should now be 
paid in line with those policy terms. 
Given what Ive said I think Mr D would also have had a policy that provided funeral benefit. 
However, I appreciate that as Mr Ds old policy is now closed it may not be possible to 
reinstate this. But if Mr D retains cover with Simplyhealth then if a claim is subsequently 
made for funeral benefit I think it should pay that in line with what would have happened if 
hed still had his old policy. 
If Mr D has paid less for ongoing cover than hed have paid for a policy that included funeral 
benefit Simplyhealth will be entitled to reduce the benefit by that amount. In calculating the 
amount due it will also be entitled to take into account any additional benefit hes received 
under his new policy that he wouldnt have received under his old policy.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Simplyhealth Access will need to put things right by 
doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman