DRN-3771142
The complaint
Mr P has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) applied a 
market value reduction (MVR) when he switched the funds from his personal pension to 
another provider.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in August 2022. I explained I did not intend to uphold the 
complaint. 
In summary, Prudential changed its default position on what to do with customers funds if 
the set retirement date was reached without the customer providing any instructions. Instead 
of transferring to the cash fund as had previously been the case, Prudential updated its 
policy to keep customers funds in the plan once the set retirement date was reached. As a 
result of this update, it became necessary for Mr P to take action before the set retirement 
date, in order to avoid the possibility of being subject to an MVR if he subsequently wished 
to move the funds. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I was of the view that Prudential did enough to make 
Mr P aware of the updated approach and that it applied to him, and that Mr P was given 
sufficient opportunity to take action if he did not want this to happen. As Mr P did not take 
action, I was minded to conclude that Prudential had acted fairly in applying an MVR when 
Mr P later moved the funds. 
In addition to Mr Ps primary complaint, discussed above, I also considered various 
administrative concerns. Prudential sent Mr P incorrect information which wrongly stated the 
MVR charge as zero. There was also a delay of just over a month in executing Mr Ps 
instructions to transfer to another provider. 
Although these errors took place after the events relating to Mr Ps primary complaint, and 
therefore could have no bearing on it, I recognise they caused him inconvenience. However, 
as Prudential had already paid Mr P £300 in recognition of this, I wasnt minded to ask 
Prudential to make any further award.
Prudential has accepted my provisional decision without making any further comments or 
submissions. Mr P has not accepted my provisional decision and has made a number of 
comments, as outlined below.
Firstly, Mr P has specifically asked why the letter dated 15 July 2020 is not relevant in terms 
of supporting his primary complaint. Mr P has pointed out that the letter says he had until his 
75th birthday to take action and reach a decision about his retirement income, and that it also 
says - further down the page  that no MVR will apply at his selected retirement date. 
It appears the comment that no MVR will apply refers to the new selected retirement date of 
Mr Ps 75th birthday, as established earlier in the letter - although I understand why Mr P 
mightve found this confusing. In any case, as I said in my provisional decision, any 
correspondence sent to Mr P after the set retirement date of 14 July 2020 had passed 
couldnt have had any bearing on his failure to give instructions prior to that date. So, my 
finding stands that Prudential did enough to make Mr P aware of the updated approach and 
gave him sufficient opportunity to take action before the set retirement date.
Mr P has also reiterated the personal difficulties he was going through at the time, and I do 
understand why this mightve made him less likely to prioritise and focus on his pension. 
However, as I said in my provisional decision, I think Mr P most likely received the 
communications Prudential sent prior to the set retirement date, and it was his responsibility 
to read and act on these communications. So it wouldnt be fair to hold Prudential 
responsible for him not taking action in sufficient time to avoid the possibility of being subject 
to an MVR.
Mr P has also argued that the communications Prudential sent him after the set retirement 
date had passed, which wrongly stated the MVR as zero, should be considered binding on 
the business. However, my role is to put Mr P back into the position that he wouldve been in 
had the mistake not happened. As previously stated, Mr P wouldve found himself in the 
same situation regarding the MVR whether or not the incorrect communications had been 
sent, because he wouldve still missed the 14 July 2020 deadline. I acknowledge that the 
letters were confusing and inconvenient, but  as stated in my provisional decision - I think 
the £300 Prudential has already paid adequately compensates Mr P for the various 
administrative errors that have taken place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The deadline for further submissions has now passed. Having reconsidered the complaint 
again in its entirety, along with the additional comments that have been provided by Mr P, 
I have reached the same decision as before, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint or making any award against the Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
