DRN-2319254
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to provide clear 
information that the it was no longer conditional for them to have a life policy to cover the 
Virgin One Account mortgage account (the account) they opened.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P opened the account through RBS at the end of 2000 and borrowed £80,000 to 
purchase a property at the start of 2001. It was conditional at the time that they also take out 
a life policy, which they did. In 2017 they brought their borrowing in the account to zero and 
contacted RBS to ask if they could stop paying for the life policy.
They were told that having life cover wasnt a condition of the account and not obligatory 
when they took it out, contrary to the documentation they were given at the time and what 
they had been told when opening the account. They took this no further at the time but 
raised a complaint in July 2019 - based on what they had been told in 2017 - about having 
been misled into taking out a life policy in 2001.
In its response to the complaint the business said that when the account was opened it was 
a condition of the mortgage that Mr and Mrs P took out that they have life cover. It explained 
that in October 2001 it contacted customers to inform them it was no longer a condition, but 
that life cover was still strongly recommended. It said it wasnt upholding the complaint 
because it hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to us on the basis that RBS hadnt provided clear 
information in 2001 that it was no longer a condition of the account to have life cover. They 
said it had buried the change in in the small print of an insert which was included with a 
monthly statement. 
They also suggested that this change wouldve been known when they opened the account 
and they shouldve been told the condition would be short lived. They said that if they had 
been told clearly about the change, they may well have chosen to stop the life policy or to 
change the provider
The business didnt agree to us considering the complaint because they said it had been 
made too late. One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that it had 
been made too late for the same reasons as the business. 
But she also made findings on the merits of the complaint. She said that RBS had notified Mr 
and Mrs P of the change to the condition requiring life policy in October 2001. She said that 
RBS had fulfilled its duty to communicate changes to the conditions in clear way. She said it 
appeared that Mr and Mrs P had received the information and having done so could be 
expected to read it.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator that RBS had done nothing wrong in the way 
it had communicated the change. They repeated that they thought the change to the life 
cover condition had been buried in small print and said that this is why it was missed by 
them. They suggested the change was of such significance a separate communication 
shouldve been sent.
I thought that the basis for finding that the complaint had been made too late was wrong. I 
set out why I thought this was the case to RBS who then agreed that I could consider the 
merits of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have already noted that the investigator made findings on the merits, despite thinking that 
the complaint had been made too late. I agree with the investigator that RBS provided clear 
information about the change in the condition that required life cover and did what it needed 
to do to communicate this.
The business have provided a copy of the insert that was sent to customers in 2001. I have 
no reason to think this would not have been sent to Mr and Mrs P and I think it is more likely 
than not they will have received this. They have not suggested otherwise, instead their 
argument has centred on the information about the change to the life cover condition being 
hidden within this document.
I acknowledge the point made by Mr and Mrs P that the change to the term making life cover 
a condition of the account was significant. But I dont think it is reasonable to expect a 
business to send out separate communications when there are several changes to the terms 
and conditions. I think it reasonable for these changes all to be contained in one document.
Mr and Mrs P have said that they werent aware of the change to the life policy condition 
because the information about this was buried in amongst a load of other small print on a 
small flyer tucked inside a booklet with eight pages of even smaller print. I note that they 
previously suggested that the flyer was sent with a statement rather than a booklet. I think 
this shows the difficulty when people are relying only on their memories of what happened 
many years ago. Such memories are rarely accurate or complete and are generally not 
reliable evidence of what happened. 
If the flyer was sent with a statement, I think it wouldve been readily distinguishable from the 
statement and something that Mr and Mrs P shouldve taken notice of. But even if it was sent 
with a booklet, Im not persuaded that this means RBS didnt communicate the change 
clearly. 
The information was not part of the eight-page booklet but was a separate flyer, as Mr and 
Mrs P accept. It was also headed The Conditions - October 2001 edition  summary of 
changes. So, I think again it was easily distinguishable from the rest of the booklet and as 
such something that Mr and Mrs P shouldve taken note of. I also dont agree that the 
information about the change was of itself buried in small print within the flyer as has been 
suggested.
The flyer was a simple one-page document that had only six changes to the general 
conditions with a further three listed under Card Conditions. The change to the life policy 
condition is the second of the changes to the general conditions. Under the sub-heading 
Condition 11  Life Policy it states:Life insurance is no longer a requirement of the One account. However, we still strongly 
recommend that you continue to maintain adequate cover for the full term of your One 
account.
The document was simple and straightforward and the information about the change to the 
life policy condition was the second change referred to and the words were in reasonably 
sized print and in plain English. The information wasnt buried or obscured in some way 
within a lot of other information as suggested. 
I accept Mr and Mrs P didnt read this at the time and remained unaware of the change until 
they were informed of this in 2019. I acknowledge that they were a young couple in a new 
house in a new city with a young child. I accept they were dealing with a lot of changes to 
their personal circumstances. This may explain why they didnt take note of the information 
they were sent. But I cant hold RBS responsible for that. Im satisfied it did what it needed to 
do by notifying them of the change in the way that it did.  
Mr and Mrs P have also suggested that the forthcoming change to the condition wouldve 
been known at the time they borrowed the money and first took out the policy and as such 
they shouldve been forewarned about this and they could then have been looking for the 
change. 
But I have to base my findings on the available evidence, and I have seen no evidence to 
suggest that the decision to change the life policy condition had been made at the time their 
borrowing started. In the circumstances there is no basis for me finding that it had already 
been decided that the condition would be removed at the time they took out the policy. 
In any event even if Mr and Mrs P are right, Im not persuaded there was any obligation to 
notify customers of a forthcoming change that hadnt yet been implemented. There was no 
reason for RBS to think that customers wouldnt take notice of the information it provided at 
the time of change.
It is also worth me pointing out I have seen no evidence that persuades me that Mr and Mrs 
P wouldve cancelled the policy in 2001 even if RBS had done more to bring the change to 
their attention. They were a young couple with a new child. Life cover in the circumstances 
was a sensible thing to have in place because if one of them had died this was likely to have 
had a significant financial impact on the surviving partner. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman