DRN-3024526
The complaint
Miss V has complained about the upset caused when Nationwide Building Society blocked
her account.
Miss V is represented by Mr P.  
What happened
On 22 February 2021, Miss V sold a product via Gumtree and funds from the sale were 
credited to her Nationwide account. Nationwide placed a block on the account on 24 
February 2021 as the payment was reported as fraudulent. 
On 27 February 2021, Miss V called Nationwide as she was unable to access her account 
online. It was during this call she discovered her account was blocked due to potentially 
fraudulent activity on the account. She was told by Nationwide that she was able to access 
her salary or benefits by attending branch. 
On 3 March 2021, Nationwides investigation into the alleged fraud concluded and 
Nationwide unblocked the account.
Mr P complained on behalf of Miss V. Mr P says he informed Nationwide of Miss Vs 
vulnerabilities when they contacted Nationwide on 27 February 2021. They were unhappy 
that alternative measures werent put in place to make it easier for Miss V to access her 
funds. Mr P thinks that Nationwide should change its processes.
Nationwide says it restricted Miss Vs account as it received a report of fraudulent credit. So, 
Nationwide investigated the alleged fraud. The account was blocked from 24 February 2021 
until 3 March 2021, when the restrictions were removed. It suspects a false fraud claim had 
been raised. Nationwide says it has no record of Miss V making it aware that she was 
vulnerable. Its also says it blocked the account in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She agreed that Miss V had told Nationwide 
she was vulnerable and wouldnt be able to visit the branch to access funds during the call 
on 27 February 2021. She also agreed that Nationwide could have made alternative 
measures to accommodate Miss Vs circumstances. However, she didnt feel Miss V had 
been impacted by this because she didnt need access to her funds during the following four 
days until the account was unblocked and had Mr Ps if necessary.
Mr P did not agree. He said not being offered alternative measures to access her funds had 
an impact on Miss V. He was only able to provide essential funds and there were impacts on 
other obligations. It was the restriction of access to any funds, and the suggestion it may be 
as long as 30 days before she had access, that severely increased the emotional impact on 
Miss V. If Nationwide had followed the process for a vulnerable consumer, the impact would 
have been significantly reduced. The accessibility to the funds would have made a 
significant difference to Miss Vs wellbeing, despite her being able to obtain money 
elsewhere when it was essential to. The impact of being able to fulfil necessary obligations 
such as childcare weighed heavily on her and caused great distress. 
I issued my provisional decision on 16 August 2021 explaining why I was reaching a slightly 
different outcome to the investigator.
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision. Mr P confirmed he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr P has presented to 
us, but I have read all of his submissions. Im not responding to every single point made but 
instead Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues material to the outcome of his 
complaint.
Mr P says he never expected Nationwide to change its processes and that it was likely they 
were following correct procedures; but he thinks those procedures are incorrect. 
My role is to look at whether Nationwide did anything wrong and its not within my remit to 
change or challenge procedures. I look at each complaint individually and what may - or may 
not - happen in the future to other customers isnt something I can consider here when 
deciding Miss Vs complaint. Its also not my job to penalise the business and any award I 
make for distress and inconvenience is not intended to be punitive. In order to make an 
award for distress and inconvenience I must be satisfied the business did something wrong.
Nationwide are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet its legal and 
regulatory obligations so I cant say it acted unreasonably in blocking Miss Vs account. The 
procedures are in place to stop fraudulent transactions. It seems a false fraud claim was 
made here, but that wasnt Nationwides fault and they were obliged to investigate the 
matter. I appreciate all of this came as a shock to Miss V when she called Nationwide on 27 
February 2021. So, I do understand why she would be upset. But I dont think Nationwide did 
anything wrong when blocking the account  so I wouldnt make an award for any upset 
those actions caused. 
During the call on 27 February 2021, Nationwide explained to Miss V she could access 
some of her funds by visiting a branch. But Miss V made it clear during this call she wasnt in 
a position to visit the branch to access her account - because she had two small children 
and was vulnerable. She also mentions she had child care to pay and seemed quite 
distressed about the prospect of all of this. As well as shocked at the possibility of not being 
able to access her account for 30 days. 
It seems to me that Nationwide has now accepted that, given Miss Vs circumstances, it 
could have made alternative arrangements for Miss V to access her funds. So, Ive gone on 
to consider whether this would have made a difference to Miss V, if Nationwide had 
explained this to her (as arguably if should have done) on 27 February 2021.
I dont think there was a practical impact here. I say this because Miss V didnt actually visit 
the branch and Mr P was able to provide for essential needs  so there was no essential 
need for Miss V to access her funds during the very short time the account was blocked (a further 4 days or 3 business days from when she discovered it was blocked). And Mr P did 
initially confirm to us during a call with the investigator that she didnt need a lot of money at 
that point. So, I think any inconvenience would have been minimal. The only thing that may 
have been impacted from a practical point of view was late child care fess. As I understand 
it, Mr P explained these are usually paid at the beginning of the month and may have been 
paid a day or two late, so I dont think the inconvenience was such that it warrants 
compensation.
However, I can see that the emotional impact on Miss V could have been reduced if 
Nationwide had explained they could make alternative arrangements for her. Miss V was 
understandably upset - albeit some of that was from the shock at finding out her account had 
been blocked and discovery around the reasons why. But I do think the prospect of having 
no access to her funds (potentially for 30 days) without the need to visit a branch with two 
young children was quite upsetting for Miss V - who explained she was vulnerable. 
So, Ive considered whether Nationwide should pay Miss V compensation for distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result. In considering this, Ive specifically thought 
about the emotional impact of Nationwides actions in not letting Miss V know on 27 
February 2021, it could make alternative arrangements for her to access her funds (rather 
than the any impact the blocking of the account had). Nationwides actions have had an 
impact on Miss V, because she was facing the very real possibility that she might have to 
visit a branch as a vulnerable person with two young children. Although I am mindful that 
that prospect did not actually materialise and the period of time over which the prospect of all 
of this lasted was a matter of days rather than weeks, months or years. 
As Ive explained, Nationwide had an opportunity to reduce some of the emotional impact 
this had on Miss V. For these reasons, I direct Nationwide to pay Miss V £150 for distress 
and inconvenience. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold Miss Vs complaint and I 
require Nationwide Building Society to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman