DRN-3833026
The complaint
Miss J, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry 
out sufficient affordability checks before it granted her loans.
What happened
Miss J was advanced three home collected loans between November 2017 and
May 2019. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the 
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 07/11/2017 29/01/2019 33 £20.00
2 £100.00 29/01/2019 28/08/2020 33 £5.00
3 £400.00 30/05/2019 outstanding 52 £14.00
Miss J has had problems repaying her final loan, and as of July 2022 an outstanding balance
remained of £218.
Morses considered Miss Js complaint and didnt uphold it. Miss Js representative then
referred the case to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision
to provide these loans. The adjudicator did say for the later loans Morses ought to have built
a more detailed picture of Miss Js finances. But he wasnt able to say what a more detailed
review wouldve shown because he did not have the evidence from Miss J.
Miss Js representative didnt agree with the outcome. Ive summarised its comments below.
It took Miss J 64 weeks to repay loan one and so, when loan 2 was granted, further 
checks shouldve been carried out.
Loan 2 also took longer than the agreed term to repay as well  81 weeks compared 
to a 48-week loan term.
Miss J has had problems repaying all the loans and so Morses shouldve realised this 
and not provided loans 2 and 3 to Miss J.
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint.
I the proceed to issue a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to 
uphold Miss Js complaint in part. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and 
a smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss J could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve considered a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Miss Js income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss J. These factors include:
Miss J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss J.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss J could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss J was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Js complaint.
Neither Morses nor Miss Js representative appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loan 1. I therefore no longer think the loan is in dispute and so I
say no more about it. But I have kept it in mind when thinking about the overall lending
relationship.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was taken on the same day that Miss J repaid loan 1 and this loan was for a much
smaller amount. However, it took Miss J significantly longer than Morses had anticipated to
repay her first loan. Loan 1 was contracted to be repaid over 33 weeks, but it actually took
Miss J 64 weeks  almost twice as long  to fully repay it.
So, although, loan 2 was for a much smaller sum the fact it had taken Miss J so much longer
to repay the first loan means I dont think Morses checks went far enough before loan 2 was
approved.
Before this loan was approved, Morses asked Miss J for details of her income and
expenditure. Miss J declared a weekly income of £140 and outgoings of £92. Leaving £48
per week in disposable income. So, based on this information Morses may have felt the loanwas affordable. Its also worth saying here that Miss Js income had dropped significantly
since loan 1.
I do think, given what had gone on that Morses needed to do more checks before granting
this loan such as verifying the information she had provided. But, I dont need to consider
what the further checks may have shown, in order to reach a fair outcome because, I think
there is enough in the information Miss J provided along with the repayment problems for
loan 1 to uphold this loan and Ive explained why below.
I do have some concerns about the expenditure information Miss J provided as part of the
loan application. As Ive said above, based on what was declared she had £48 per week in
disposable income however, for loan 2 she declared that her food bill was £0 and didnt have
utilities.
Whereas when you look at the information declared for loans 1 and 3, both of these
headings have figures in. So, I think, on balance, given what was declared for other loans
that Miss J did have both groceries as well as utilities to pay. Looking at what was declared
for loans 1 and 3, she had spent across the two areas around £45 per week. So, adding that
to the rest of the declared outgoings Miss J had, this left her with around £4 per week after
repaying the Morses loan.
In my view the loan was unlikely to be affordable given the small amount of money left over
each week and coupled with the fact the significant repayment problems Miss J had when
repaying loans 1 and 2.
Loan 3
Moving forward, Miss J was granted another loan shortly after loan 2, this meant that
Miss Js weekly commitment was £19 per week. This is very close to the £20 per week
commitment Miss J was making for loan 1, and for which she had significant repayment
problems in settling.
There was also a significant change in her income and expenditure again- and no further
checks were carried out. But I also dont think this loan ought to have been approved. I say
this because given the previous repayment problems and the continued change in her
income and expenditure information I dont think loan 3 shouldve been grated either as it
was unlikely to be affordable.
This was borne out by the fact that Miss J had problems repaying loan 3 as well, and an
outstanding balance still remains. Although, Morses wouldnt have known this at the time it
demonstrates her inability to repay the loan.
Therefore, Im intending to uphold Miss Js complaint about these loans.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both Miss J and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event, no later than 30 November 2022. 
Morses emailed the Financial Ombudsman Service agreeing with the findings which had 
been reached in the provisional decision. 
Neither Miss J or her representative responded to or acknowledged the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Morses has accepted the outcome as outlined in the provisional decision and neither 
Miss J nor her representative have provided anything further. I see no reason to depart from 
the findings I made in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think Morses ought to have granted loans 2 and 3 to Miss J due to her problems 
repaying previous Morses loans as well as the information she gave to it as part of her 
income and expenditure assessment. 
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Miss J.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss J from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss J may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss J would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss J loans 2 and 3.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt it should buy these back it back if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debt back then it should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss J towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss J which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss J 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 3, and 
treat any repayments made by Miss J as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Miss J having made overpayments then Morses should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move 
to step E.D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining due on loan 3. If this results in a 
surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss J. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss J.
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Js credit file in 
relation to loans 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Js 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Miss J as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman