DRN-3270270
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) applied adverse information to her credit 
file after she entered in a repayment plan with Lloyds to repay her overdraft. 
Miss A says she wasnt told entering into such an arrangement would lead to adverse 
information being recorded. Miss A went on to say this adverse information is preventing her 
from obtaining a mortgage.
What happened
Following Miss As complaint Lloyds issued her with a final response letter on 21 August 
2020. In it, Lloyds told Miss A the overdraft fees had been correctly applied and it provided 
her help and support when she notified them of a change in circumstance in November 
2018. Finally, it said Miss As credit file was an accurate reflection of the repayment 
arrangement and so it wouldnt be removing what it had recorded. 
Miss A, unhappy with this response referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on 24 December 2020. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint, in his view Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong and 
so he wasnt going to ask them to do anything to put things right. In summary, he concluded;
it was a commercial decision for Lloyds to alter its overdraft pricing and he thought 
Lloyds had treated Miss A fairly when it applied the new conditions to the account;
there were no signs of financial difficulty  the account was regularly funded which 
either cleared or significantly reduced the overdraft;
he could see that in November and December 2018 Miss A had contacted Lloyds 
about the overdraft, it was at this point she told Lloyds she was unemployed;
a repayment plan was agreed on 21 January 2019 with the aim to reduce the 
overdraft each month by £200;
a refinance loan was agreed in July 2019, which cleared the balance of the overdraft;
Miss A had confirmed the agent told her information would be recorded with the 
credit reference agencies and
it was reasonable for Lloyds to have recorded the negative information on Miss As 
credit file and overall, he was satisfied that Lloyds had treated her fairly.
 
Lloyds agreed with the assessment, but Miss A didnt. In response she explained in 
summary:
she accepted the adjudicators view on whether the Financial Ombudsman could 
consider the pricing structure of the overdraft;
Miss A agreed with the adjudicator that the overdraft fees had been applied correctly;
it was wrong of Lloyds to advise a payment plan was appropriate when the 
adjudicator concluded there were no signs of financial difficulty in the way that Miss A 
had used the facility;
the implications of entering the payment arrangement werent clearly explained to 
her;
she thought she was doing the right thing by agreeing to paydown the balance of the 
overdraft and she thought this would be a positive indicator;
she will now have a mark on her credit file for six years, which shows financial 
difficulties when that wasnt the case;
Miss A wouldnt have agreed to trade off an interest free period on her overdraft for 
the markers staying on her credit file for six years;
Miss A says she didnt ask Lloyds for assistance, she complained about the charges 
instead she explained; At this rate I am going to keep making repayments forever if 
you dont find a solution which is hugely and majorly different from I am unable to 
make repayments;
there is no difference between a default or the arrangement markers, they will both 
remain on her credit file for six years. Miss A also says she wouldnt have been out of 
pocket because if the account had defaulted she wouldnt have needed to make any 
repayments so she wouldve been £5,000 better off;
Lloyds hadnt treated Miss A fairly and 
the consequences of this adverse information are significant as shes prevented from 
getting a mortgage.  
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start with, I think its clear from Miss As comments that she is no longer unhappy about 
the change in charging structure or the limits on what we can investigate in relation to these 
charges. 
Instead, Miss As concerns are around the repayment plan, what she was told and the 
adverse information that has been reported on her credit file. So, I have focused on this 
aspect of Miss As complaint in this decision.
It is also worth saying at this point that Lloyds hasnt provided us with copies of the calls that 
were had between it and Miss A. But what it has provided, are contact notes  which 
summarises each of the calls as well as the letters that were sent to Miss A in relation to her 
payment plan. 
I can see from the notes that Miss A spoke to Lloyds on 23 November 2018. In this call note, 
it clear that Miss A was unhappy about the charges and that she wasnt making any inroads 
into the facility. From this note, it appears as though Miss A is asking for help. But even if 
she didnt formally ask for help, Im satisfied that Lloyds was not only entitled to treat this call 
as such a request but it was required to, as Miss A confirmed that she had just lost her job 
and had no income.
The adviser did refund £25 worth of charges as a gesture of goodwill and held the charges 
for 30 days because of what Miss A had said. I think that this was a proportionate initial 
response to the phone call Lloyds had received from Miss A. 
In December 2018, Miss A called Lloyds because there was no change in her circumstance. 
Miss A was confident in returning to employment in January 2019 so again I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to apply another hold, no charges would be applied, and it wouldve 
given Miss A the opportunity to return to employment. 
At this point, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong, it was reacting to what Miss A was 
telling it and it provided her with more time. But I do think that Lloyds was correct to identify 
the potential for financial difficulty here, after all, it was now another month where Miss A 
wasnt receiving an income, although she does say she was getting help from her family and 
partner. 
In January 2019, Miss A called because she was in her unarranged overdraft. So, this meant 
Lloyds had allowed Miss A to borrow more than the amount it was prepared to lend to her. 
But, at this point Lloyds was put on notice of a change in situation, Miss A had now returned 
to work, so it was reasonable to assume that her circumstances had now changed and her 
financial position was about to improve. 
The notes say that Miss A was now looking for an arrangement. Now, without the call its not 
possible to say with certainty exactly how this conversation went or exactly what Miss A was 
told. But, given the context of the recent phone calls, I think it is at least reasonable to say 
that Miss A wanted to make headway into paying down her arranged and unarranged 
overdraft. 
Lloyds has noted details of the payment arrangement and how after six months, Miss A may 
be offered a loan to clear the facility. And Miss A confirmed in her complaint form to the 
Financial Ombudsman that there was some discussion around her credit file but this does 
seem to be more in relation to not being above the reduced overdraft limits rather than 
whether the payment arrangement would impact her credit score. 
In saying that, I dont have the call, and it could be that the notes which have been made 
dont cover every aspect of the conversation. Indeed, Lloyds has also told us that the script 
used for these sorts of call wouldve covered the information that was likely to be recorded 
on Miss As credit file.  
I cant conclusively say whether Miss A was or wasnt told her credit file would be impacted 
by the payment arrangement. But, while Miss A says she may have taken a different option 
had this been explained to her, Im of the view, that, Lloyds was correct to put her on the 
repayment plan when it did. 
I say this because, Miss A although had been manging the account within the limits, she had 
told them shed recently lost her job and therefore there was a significant risk Miss A was no 
longer able to repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By putting her on a repayment plan, she was in effect given an interest free period to reduce 
the overdraft, so she did financially benefit from owing Lloyds money without having to pay 
for it. 
In addition, the arrangement she agreed to, was a deviation of the terms of the overdraft. 
The overdraft didnt have a set repayment date but the full amount owing plus any interest 
accrued needed to be repaid within a reasonable period of time. By agreeing this plan, 
Miss A had in effect set up a repayment mechanism which enabled her to reduce her 
liabilities towards Lloyds. 
Come July 2019, there was further contact, and Lloyds agreed to provide a loan to Miss A in 
order to clear all of her liabilities to it. This meant, that after the term of the loan Miss A, 
wouldnt have had any balance left to pay. Whereas, if shed not agreed a repayment plan and then a refinancing loan, in theory, 
Miss A wouldve been required to carry on paying interest fees and charges on the overdraft 
at the new contractual rate, and is unlikely to have been able to repay what she owed within 
a reasonable period of time based on what had happened previously and what Lloyds now 
knew about her circumstances.  
Ive also thought about what Miss A says about the costs, but had Lloyds not taken any 
action, she wouldve continued to have received overdraft (and potentially unarranged 
overdraft charges) and so I think she wouldve found it much harder to reduce her liability 
and the amounts she owed. Looking at what happened at the time, Im satisfied that;
1. Lloyds was on notice, that Miss A wasnt working for a period and its not 
unreasonable to conclude this was likely to impact her ability to repay what she owed 
if the terms and conditions of the overdraft were applied  and there was a realistic 
prospect of this leading to financial difficulties
2. Miss A wanted to reduce the level of debt with Lloyds and its clear she wanted to 
avoid a default
Had Lloyds not agreed a repayment plan either;
1. Miss A wouldve carried on using the facility, and have received continued charges or 
2. Lloyds couldve removed the facility in its entirety and given Miss A two months to 
repay the facility in full, otherwise it wouldve been entitled to default the account. 
So, while, I cant say for sure what Miss A was told, I dont think Lloyds actions to agree a 
repayment plan were unreasonable. Indeed, it seems to have been reacting to the 
information it was provided, and it would be classed as the expert in this situation, it had a 
duty to help and treat Miss A with forbearance, which Im satisfied it has done. 
And I think this was key, because the call notes make it clear that Miss A was going to try 
and avoid a default at all costs. 
Finally, its worth noting that Miss A hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with her 
credit file, or any information so show that the sole reason why her mortgage was declined 
was because of the information Lloyds had reported. Im not saying this is the case here, but 
even if I were to conclude that Lloyds had made a mistake with reporting the information on 
Miss As credit file, Id not be in a position to say that this prevented Miss A from getting a 
mortgage, although I wouldnt be able to rule out it may have played a part to a greater or 
lesser extent. 
But I do have a copy of the credit file information that Lloyds says it is reporting to one of the 
credit reference agencies. It shows AP markers between January and April 2019. These 
markers show that Miss A was under the terms of some sort of payment arrangement. The 
balance alongside it reduces in line with the payment Miss A was making until the balance of 
the account goes to zero in July 2019  which is timed when she took the loan.
Miss A is correct to say that like a default the AP markers will remain her credit file for six 
years after they were reported. So, these markers will drop off from her file in 2025. 
However, its worth noting an AP marker is quite different to a default. 
In response to the view, Miss A suggests that if the account wouldve defaulted then she 
wouldve had £5,000 in her pocket, because she wouldnt have repaid the overdraft. But an 
account defaulting doesnt mean that the money isnt owed or that the money isnt due to be 
repaid. Had Lloyds defaulted the account  to be clear it hasnt, Miss A wouldve still been required 
to repay the defaulted sum. Indeed, by defaulting the account this wouldve left Lloyds with 
the option to take further action such as apply for a County Court Judgement. Which is likely 
to have had a greater impact on Miss As credit score. 
So overall, I cant be sure that Miss A was explained the consequences of entering into the 
repayment plan. But, I do think the actions of Lloyds were reasonable and correct in these 
circumstances. Ive thought about what Miss A has said about the alterative options she may 
have taken, but this wouldve put her in a materially different position and Im not convinced 
that it wouldve been better for her. 
Lloyds needs to treat her fairly and with forbearance and this is what it has done in this 
situation. So, Lloyds isnt required to make any adjustments to her credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman