DRN-2887857
The complaint
Mrs R complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Platform) wrongly pursued her 
for a shortfall debt after her property was sold, and put incorrect entries on her credit file. 
Shed like it to acknowledge it cant pursue her for the shortfall debt and correct her credit 
file. Mrs R is represented by a family member, who Ill refer to as Mr R. 
What happened
Mrs R and her ex-partner had a mortgage with Platform. They separated and in 2012 Mrs R 
filed for bankruptcy. Mrs R continued to live in the security property and Platform received 
monthly mortgage payments until mid-2019.
In 2020 Platform took possession of the security property and filed a default on Mrs Rs 
credit files. Mrs R says the default should have been recorded in January 2012, when she 
entered bankruptcy. She says shes unable to obtain credit or rent a house due to the 
adverse data, and this will affect her for some years.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I said Platform was wrong to pursue Mrs R for the shortfall debt. And it should 
have recorded a default in 2012 when Mrs R entered bankruptcy. I said it should correct 
Mrs Rs credit file and pay compensation of £300. 
Platform accepted my provisional decision. It said it had asked the credit reference agencies 
to record the default in 2012, meaning the mortgage account would no longer appear on 
Mrs Rs credit files. Mrs R agreed with these changes to her credit file. Mr R said on her 
behalf that this had caused Mrs R difficulties in obtaining credit and services and renting a 
home. However, as it was difficult to provide evidence that Platforms error was the main 
cause of these difficulties, Mrs R accepted the decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened?
Mrs R and her ex-partner had a mortgage with Platform. Mrs R and her ex-partner 
separated, and Mrs R filed for bankruptcy in January 2012.
Initially, the trustee took a beneficial interest in the security property (in simple terms, the 
trustee had rights over any value in the property remaining after debts secured on the 
property were satisfied). However, the trustees report to creditors said the property was in 
negative equity, with the outstanding secured debt at about £170,000 and the property 
valued at about £95,000. The trustee didnt expect to recover any money for the unsecured 
creditors from the property. The trustee confirmed in late 2012 it would release its interest in 
the security property. Mrs Rs bankruptcy was discharged in 2013.
Contractual monthly payments were made to the mortgage account until mid-2019, with 
overpayments to reduce the arrears. No payments were received from late 2019.
Platform recorded a default on Mrs Rs credit file when it took possession of the property in 
February 2020. It sold the property in May 2020. There was a shortfall of about £90,000.
Can Platform require Mrs R to pay the shortfall debt?
When Mrs R was declared bankrupt and then discharged her liability for all pre-existing 
debts was extinguished. That included her mortgage debt. That meant Platform couldnt 
require her to make more payments to the mortgage (although Mrs R could make payments 
to avoid the property being taken into possession). And it would have been wrong for 
Platform to record a failure to make payments on her credit file  she simply wasnt liable to 
make any payments.
As a secured creditor Platform still had security over Mrs Rs property and could take 
possession of it to recover the mortgage balance. And Mrs R was entitled to make mortgage 
payments to avoid her home being taken into possession. And for some years mortgage 
payments were made, and possession was avoided.
Once the property was sold, the shortfall became an unsecured debt. Platform has no right 
to ask Mrs R to pay the shortfall debt. Her liability for any mortgage repayments ceased as a 
result of her bankruptcy.
Is the default recorded on Mrs Rs credit file accurate and fair?
Where a mortgage borrower is made bankrupt, the account is defaulted at the date of 
bankruptcy. I think Mrs Rs credit file should show the mortgage account as defaulted in 
January 2012, when she entered bankruptcy. This is in line with the Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies issued by 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). ICO says the default date must be consistent 
with that of the bankruptcy, and the default should be filed as being no later than the date of 
the insolvency order. I cant see anything here that would make it fair to record the default at 
a later date.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr R said I should deal only with the date the default 
is recorded as this is the subject matter of the complaint. He says theres no need for me to 
deal with what should be recorded on Mrs Rs credit file about the account being settled or 
part settled when the property was sold. In its response to my provisional decision, Platform 
said it had asked the credit reference agencies to record the default at January 2012. It said 
its understanding was that this would mean the mortgage account Mrs R had with it would 
no longer show on her credit file. The result here is that Mrs Rs credit file will no longer 
show any information about the mortgage she had with Platform. As both parties agree with 
this outcome, I dont need to make any findings about what should be recorded on Mrs Rs 
credit file, beyond that the default should have been recorded in January 2012.  
Mr R says Platform made errors and its taken too long to put things right. I understand why 
he says this and I agree that Platform made errors. However, this service isnt a regulator, 
and we dont have the powers of a regulator. We offer a dispute resolution service. I cant 
order an investigation of Platform or issue requirements about its staff training. Mr R can 
consider raising these concerns with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Putting things rightI think Platform made errors here. I think it should have recorded a default in 2012, not when 
it took possession in 2020, and it shouldnt have tried to recover the shortfall debt. I think this 
will have caused Mrs R trouble and upset. I think its fair and reasonable to require Platform 
to pay £300 to Mrs R for this upset.
Mrs R says she suffered losses and difficulties, such as not being able to obtain credit or 
services or rent a property. Before I can fairly consider whether Platform should pay 
compensation for this, Id need Mrs R to provide evidence that this was due to Platforms 
errors and not due to her circumstances more generally, bearing in mind that Mrs R was 
declared bankrupt and had defaults recorded for other accounts.
Platform should amend Mrs Rs credit file to show the mortgage account as defaulted in 
January 2012, as it has agreed to do. And it should pay Mrs R £300 compensation for the 
upset its errors caused.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order The Co-operative Bank PLC to take the 
steps and pay the compensation set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman