DRN-3844111
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited T/A 
Positive Solutions to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension plan. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In 2015, Mrs S was going through a divorce and was advised by her solicitor to seek 
independent financial advice. Mrs S met with an independent financial adviser (IFA) but he 
told her he wasnt authorised to transact DB pension transfers so he referred her on to an 
adviser at Quilter. In early October 2017, Quilter conducted a telephone meeting with Mrs S 
and completed a brief fact-find to gather information about her circumstances and objectives. 
Quilter established the following:
Mrs S was 55 years old and recently divorced. The marital home had recently been 
sold and the proceeds split between Mrs S and her husband; Mrs S had received 
£128,000 in the settlement.
She was employed part-time earning £10,000 per year plus commission which she 
thought would increase her total annual income to between £15,000 and £18,000 
which was sufficient to cover her outgoings. Mrs S thought she had 11 years of 
earning potential remaining before her state retirement age of 66. 
Mrs B had three pension plans: a stakeholder pension plan with a fund value of 
£3,408, her DB scheme which had a cash equivalent transfer value of £132,566 and 
a pension that had belonged to her former husband that was granted to her by the 
court under a pension sharing order and which had a fund value of £26,130. Her total 
pension benefits were therefore worth £162,104.
Mrs S needed money to purchase a flat. She anticipated needing a total of £195,000 
 but didnt want to take on a mortgage because of her age. 
Mrs S didnt need an income from the pensions because she felt that her income 
from her employment would cover her outgoings.
If Mrs S took her DB scheme benefits immediately she would receive tax-free cash 
(TFC) of £22,538 and a pension of £3,380 per year (that included a 50% spouses 
pension).
Mrs S didnt want to take the early retirement option from the DB scheme because 
the TFC she would get was less than what she could achieve if she transferred her 
benefits out of the scheme. She also didnt want a pension with the benefit of a 50% 
spouses pension.
No investments, assets or debts were noted. 
Shortly after, Quilter sent Mrs S its letter of recommendation and its suitability report in which 
it advised Mrs S to transfer both her DB scheme and the two other pension plans she had 
into a personal pension plan (also provided by M). It then advised her to take TFC of 
approximately £41,000 from the new plan and drawdown a further (taxed) amount of 
£30,000 in order to cover the cost of purchasing a property. Having carried out an 
assessment of Mrs Ss attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be moderate, it advised 
she invest the balance of the proceeds in a moderately cautious fund. 
The suitability report said Mrs Ss sole objective was to purchase a property valued up to 
£195,000 without taking on any debt. That formed the basis of its reasons for recommending 
the transfer from her DB scheme.
Quilter also provided Mrs S with a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. This assessed that 
the estimated annual investment return (also known as the critical yield) the new pension 
plan would need to attain in order to provide benefits of an equal value at Mrs Ss normal 
retirement date (NRD) of 65 was 9.29% if no TFC was taken and all benefits were taken as a 
pension.  
Quilters charge for arranging the transfer was 3% of the fund value (cited as £162,556) 
which equated to £4,876. Quilter also recommended that Mrs S agree to an annual review of 
her retirement plans for which there was a 0.75% annual charge to be deducted from the 
fund value. 
Mrs S proceeded with Quilters recommendation and the transfers took place in November 
2015. 
In September 2021 Mrs S complained to Quilter about the suitability of the transfer advice 
she had received. She said that she had received negligent advice and had suffered a 
financial loss as a result. More specifically she complained: 
That Quilter had failed to collect enough information about her on its fact-find.
That the transfer was unsuitable and wasnt in her best interests.
That Quilter inadequately analysed the suitability of the transfer and whether her 
objective of purchasing a property could be achieved in other ways.
The significant value of the DB scheme benefits werent adequately compared 
against the uncertain benefits associated with a personal pension.
Quilter hadnt explained that whilst an immediate cash lump sum was attractive it 
might be less valuable than a guaranteed future income scheme. 
The risks of the transfer and the loss of the guaranteed benefits werent explained.
There was a conflict of interest in Quilter being incentivised by a large fee to 
recommend the transfer in circumstances where it wasnt in Mrs Ss best interests. 
Quilter looked into Mrs Ss complaint, issuing its final response on 30 September 2021. 
Quilter disagreed that it had done anything wrong. It said that it had completed a fact-find 
and an ATR questionnaire and had carried out extensive research to compare the benefits of 
the DB scheme with the transfer to a personal pension. It said this had all been summarised 
in the suitability report it sent Mrs S in October 2015 where it noted her main objective now 
she was single, and so close to retirement, was to purchase a property unencumbered by 
debt.
Quilter said it had adequately assessed Mrs Ss needs and objectives and challenged her 
thoughts about achieving them in other ways. It also said it had discussed the advantages 
and disadvantages of the transfer but that Mrs S, whilst she understood these, wanted to 
take advantage of the new pensions freedoms to purchase a property unencumbered. So 
Quilter said thered been no failure to collect information from Mrs S as it had established her 
objectives, her ATR and explored all the other available options before concluding the only 
way to achieve her objective was to transfer her DB scheme. 
Quilter said it had provided Mrs S with appropriate advice and a suitable recommendation 
taking into account her needs and objectives. It also said that Mrs S had enough clear, fair and not misleading information to make a fully informed decision and had been made fully 
aware of the risks associated with the transfer.
Unhappy with the outcome of Quilters investigation, Mrs S complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into her complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He said that the 
transfer wasnt financially viable in that she was likely to receive benefits of a materially 
lower overall value than she would have done by remaining in her DB scheme as a result of 
investing in line with her ATR. He also thought that alternative ways of achieving her 
objective of purchasing a property werent explored in enough detail. And he thought there 
had been no discussion about what Mrs Ss retirement needs were likely to be. Our 
Investigator recommended that Quilter undertake a redress calculation for Mrs S in line with 
the regulators pensions review guidance. He added that Quilter should pay Mrs S £300 
compensation to address her distress and inconvenience caused by Quilters unsuitable 
advice.
Mrs S replied to our Investigator asking some questions about how any redress would be 
calculated and paid. 
Quilter said it disagreed with our Investigators findings. It said too much emphasis was 
placed on the critical yield. It said that alternative ways to facilitate a property purchase were 
discussed with Mrs S and that it had carried out mortgage sourcing which had shown she 
could use the TFC from her DB scheme and take out a mortgage of £40,000. It said this 
would cost £350 per month which it had proposed was funded by the income that would 
have been paid from the DB scheme. Quilter said that Mrs S had discounted this as an 
option. 
Quilter also said that the other possibilities suggested by our Investigator were clearly not 
viable for Mrs S given she had since fully encashed the entire pension. It said the 
uncrystallised funds pension lump sums (UFPLS) Mrs S took in the 2016/2017 tax year 
didnt form part of the DB transfer advice she had complained about. It said the original 
advice had been to release TFC from the three transferred pensions (totalling £41,000) 
along with a further sum of £30,000 taxed at the basic rate of income tax in order to assist 
with the property purchase as documented in the suitability report. But Quilter said in 
February 2016 Mrs S asked to encash the full amount (£116,000) remaining in the pension.
Quilter said it had produced a further suitability report in February 2016 where it noted that 
Mrs S had £145,543 in the bank which she intended to use to purchase a property and that 
she intended to take out a small mortgage of £35,000 to cover the difference. So it said 
Mrs Ss needs had significantly changed from those cited in 2015. It said the £83,320 she 
received from the full pension encashment (after tax was deducted) added to what she had 
in the bank and the mortgage she intended to obtain meant she had £263,000 to purchase a 
property. Quilter agreed Mrs S had indeed paid a significant amount of tax in 2016/2017 but 
the fact she did shouldnt be considered against the original advice. 
The investigator thought about what Quilter had said but wasnt persuaded to change his 
opinion. He said it was still the case that Mrs Ss income needs in retirement hadnt been 
discussed. And he said that just because the new pensions freedoms enabled Mrs S to 
withdraw cash from her pension if she transferred it didnt mean that doing so was suitable 
for her. Our Investigator remained of the view that Quilter had facilitated what Mrs S had told 
it she wanted to do rather than what was in her best interests. 
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilters actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Ss best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability of the DB scheme transfer 
I understand that Mrs Ss solicitor suggested that she obtain some independent financial 
advice following her divorce. And I accept that, for her at the time, the priority was finding a 
home. So it may have been the case that Mrs S approached her IFA, and subsequently 
Quilter, with the idea that she could use her pensions to help her purchase a property. But 
Quilter wasnt there just to transact what Mrs S thought she wanted to achieve; it was there 
to act in her best interests. But I dont think her stated objective for wanting to transfer 
outweighed or justified the loss of her valuable, guaranteed DB scheme benefits. Ill explain 
why. 
Quilter carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mrs Ss pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mrs S was aged 55 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 66 (her state retirement 
age). The critical yield required to match Mrs Ss occupational pension benefits at age 65 
(her NRD) was 9.29% if she took a full pension and no TFC. This compares with the 
discount rate of 4.2% per year for 10 years to retirement in this case. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5% and 
the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs Ss 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mrs S 
giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 9.29%, I 
think Mrs S was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
And I think that Quilters suitability report acknowledges that to be the case as well because 
it says that the underlying investment growth needed to attain the same benefits as those 
offered by the DB scheme at NRD was unlikely to be achieved. 
Ive thought too about Mrs Ss capacity for loss. I note that the suitability report didnt 
comment on Mrs Ss capacity for loss, merely stating that she was willing to give up better 
retirement benefits in return for access to TFC at the time of the advice. But that wasnt 
having regard for Mrs Ss information needs. The DB scheme was Mrs Ss main source of 
retirement income and given at the time of the advice she had no assets (aside from the 
money in the bank from her divorce settlement that she intended to use for her property 
purchase) or other anticipated sources of income in retirement (except for her state pension 
entitlement and the other two small personal pensions she had) I dont think she had any 
capacity to absorb a loss on the pension transfer. If it was acting in her best interests, I think 
Quilter should have made that clear to Mrs S when it was advising her. 
So, for this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Ss best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Quilter 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mrs S required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access her TFC earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age so she could have left her funds invested until a later date. I say this 
because Mrs Ss sole objective was to access money to purchase a property unencumbered 
by debt.
Because Quilter didnt carry out a full fact-find on Mrs Ss financial circumstances I dont 
know what her monthly outgoings and financial commitments were. I dont know if she was 
servicing any loans or how affordable any potential monthly mortgage payments were.
Nor do I think that Quilter considered what income Mrs S wanted and needed in retirement 
as required by the regulator. The industry regulator  the FCA  has made it clear within its guidance that advisers need to have understood a consumers investment objectives before 
making a recommendation. A request or preference made by the consumer for a particular 
course of action does not, of itself, amount to an objective. Advisers are required to 
interrogate the consumers actual investment objectives to determine if they are realistic or 
not or achievable through other means and so that they can provide suitable advice on 
whether they can be met. 
So whilst Mrs S sought advice about using her pensions to help her purchase a property this 
didnt absolve Quilter from the requirement to provide suitable advice, even if, in so doing, it 
challenged Mrs Ss pre-conceived intentions. Mrs S had no experience of making an 
investment decision of this sort and consequently had no means of knowing if her intended 
actions were in her best interests or if her objective could be met by some other means. I 
think its worth repeating that Quilter wasnt there to just transact what Mrs S might have 
thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mrs S needed and 
recommend what was in her best interests.
So Quilter should have provided Mrs S with information that allowed her to make a fully 
informed decision about what was in her best interests. That included giving Mrs S advice 
about the cost of a low interest mortgage compared to the cost of losing a guaranteed, 
index-linked retirement income. Thats especially the case as  once transferred  her 
reinvested pension would need attain an annual return of 9.29% just to be able to provide 
the same benefits as those she was giving up. So whilst I accept that Mrs S may have 
approached Quilter with the idea that she didnt want to take on any debt at that point in her 
life, the true and real cost of giving up her valuable DB scheme compared with the cost of a 
low interest mortgage should have been explained to her. 
But I cant see that Quilter fully explored the alternative options with Mrs S for dealing with 
the principal objective of the transfer, namely, to raise the remaining money she needed to 
purchase a property debt-free. Quilter has provided us with evidence to show that it carried 
out mortgage rate comparisons for Mrs S based on her borrowing £40,000 over 11 years, 
the cost of which was approximately £350 per month. And I can see from the suitability 
report that it states that Mrs Ss need for a property was paramount and of much more 
importance to her than her retirement income. It also states that she didnt want to take on a 
mortgage because she was now single and so close to retirement.
But the mortgage rate comparisons Quilter carried out were based on variable rates. I cant 
see that Quilter explored any fixed rate options for Mrs S which, in 2015, were typically 
cheaper than the variable rates lenders offered. At the time of the advice, the Bank of 
England base rate was 0.5% and there were mortgage deals available with interest rates 
from 1.25%. I think Quilter, if it was acting in Mrs Ss best interests, should have explored 
other types of mortgage deals that were available as they could well have been more 
affordable for her. So it isnt known whether Mrs S was actually transferring her valuable, 
guaranteed DB benefits merely to access lump sum un-necessarily and whether the transfer 
ought to have been a last resort.
Instead, Quilter advised Mrs S that she should transfer her three pensions, a transfer that 
offered poor value for money given the high critical yield and the tax she incurred on the 
£30,000 she took as an UFPLS. And I cant see that it explored other means of Mrs S 
purchasing a property either such as one with a lower value or one that benefited from a 
shared ownership scheme. I think there were alternatives that would have allowed Mrs S to 
achieve her objective of purchasing a home without needing to transfer her DB scheme 
which Quilter should, if it was acting in Mrs Ss best interests have explained to her in full.
And if Quilter had had full regard to Mrs Ss information and communication needs I think it 
should have explored her actual retirement plans and what was important to her. Ive certainly seen no evidence that there was any discussion about what level of income Mrs S 
needed in retirement or how it might be achieved. Ive seen the retirement  supplementary 
questions document that was completed at the time of the advice where it was noted that 
Mrs Ss current annual income was £15,000 and her current annual expenditure was 
£11,000. It also notes that Mrs S expected to work to age 65 and that she would receive a 
basic state pension of £7,593 at age 66. 
I can see that Mrs Ss DB scheme would have provided her with an annual income of £8,462 
at NRD (age 65) meaning from age 66 her annual income would have been £16,055. This 
was an income that would have been guaranteed for life and which increased annually. So 
whilst Ive seen no record of what Mrs Ss income needs were in retirement, her projected 
income at the time of the advice  excluding the two smaller personal pensions  was 
greater than her then current income. So its not unreasonable to assume that this projected 
income at age 66 would have been more than adequate for her needs. 
Yet no discussion about Mrs Ss income needs in retirement seems to have taken place. 
There is a question on the form that asks; what are/will be the clients expected sources of 
income in retirement? alongside which it is noted: client has taken new job and expects 
income to be £15,000. But this comment relates to Mrs Ss income at the time, not her 
retirement income. 
So its reasonable to assume that Mrs S was more likely to have met her income needs in 
retirement by remaining in her DB scheme and taking the scheme benefits at age 65. Had 
Mrs Ss DB scheme been left in place, she would now be in the position whereby most, if not 
all, of her retirement income needs were capable of being met. Instead she now has only her 
state pension and any pension provision she may have accrued since starting her job in 
2015 to rely on. As Mrs S would have been reliant on her DB scheme for her retirement 
income, I cant agree that it was in her best interests to recommend that she transfer it in 
order to access TFC and an UFPLS so she could purchase a property debt free.
And whilst the advice Mrs S received from Quilter in 2015 referred only indirectly to the 
possibility of her taking further cash out from the new pension the following tax year, the fact 
remains that the transfer itself facilitated the further withdrawals Mrs S went on to make. If 
she had been suitably advised she would not have been in a position to make the 
subsequent withdrawals. 
Mrs S was reliant on the advice she was given by Quilter and it needed to encompass a 
suitable recommendation that was in her best interests communicated in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. Unfortunately for Quilter I dont think it discharged its 
obligations to Mrs S in this respect. 
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mrs S, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mrs S should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investment recommendation wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given.Summary
Being able to access the tax-free cash on offer through a personal pension would have 
sounded attractive to Mrs S. But Quilters role was to find out what Mrs Ss wants and needs 
were and why and to recommend what was in her best interests. Its role wasnt simply to do 
what she wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge. 
It follows that I dont think the advice given to Mrs S was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs S was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mrs S shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme so she could access TFC and a UFPLS to purchase a property. Thats because 
there were alternative means for her to achieve her objective without giving up the 
guarantees associated with her DB scheme.
So, I think Quilter shouldve advised Mrs S to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs S would've gone ahead anyway, against Quilters 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs S wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Quilters advice. I say this because Mrs S was an 
inexperienced investor with a moderate attitude to risk and her DB scheme pension 
accounted for the majority of her retirement provision. So if Quilter had provided her with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best 
interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice. It is also worth stating that Ive seen no 
evidence that Mrs S wouldve insisted on going against such advice had it been given. 
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mrs S for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Personal pension transfer
Quilter also advised Mrs S to transfer her two personal pensions into the new personal 
pension with M alongside her DB scheme so she could consolidate her pensions in one 
place and meet the objective Ive set out above. Quilter hasnt provided any information to 
suggest it carried out financial comparisons of the benefits attached to Mrs Ss personal 
pension. I have no information about the pensions themselves save for their values. But I do 
know that Mrs S would have had to have paid Quilter 3% of her funds values just to make 
the transfer. And it is reasonable to assume that the ongoing cost of a stakeholder pension 
was likely to have been less than a personal pension. So given the charges associated with 
transferring the pensions along with the ongoing annual fees, I think it likely that Mrs Ss 
personal pensions would be less valuable on retirement after the transfer and she therefore 
should have been advised to leave her personal pensions where they were.
Mrs S was advised to transfer on the basis that she could access tax free cash, reducing her 
income during retirement that I simply dont think she could afford. Its for this reason that I 
think the advice to transfer the personal pensions alongside the DB pension was unsuitable. 
Mrs S should have been advised to leave all three pensions with their existing providers. 
And as a result of not being advised to do this, I believe her retirement provisions have been 
financially impacted.
Compensation
I appreciate that the realisation that she had been unsuitably advised to transfer her DB 
scheme  which accounted for the majority of her retirement provision  will have caused Mrs S some significant distress and inconvenience. Where a financial business causes a 
consumer avoidable distress and inconvenience this service can recommend that it 
compensate the consumer. For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think the transfer 
Quilter recommended Mrs S make was in her best interests. The consequent distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs S was avoidable had she been suitably advised. I therefore 
agree with the recommendation made by our Investigator that Quilter pay Mrs S 
compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset she was caused. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Quilter to put Mrs S, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs S would have most 
likely remained in her DB scheme and kept her personal pension arrangements if suitable 
advice had been given. I say this because the transfer wasnt financially viable and wasnt in 
her best interests. 
What should Quilter do?
To compensate Mrs S fairly, Quilter must determine the combined fair value of her 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
fair value  step one
If Mrs S had been given suitable advice, I think she would have remained in the DB scheme. 
Quilter must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mrs S lost as a result of transferring 
out of her DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mrs S whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. 
Mrs S has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her 
complaint. I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs S. 
For clarity, Mrs S has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision.
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Quilter to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
fair value  step two
Quilter must compare the value of Mrs Ss personal pensions transferred to her new 
personal pension with M with that of the notional value from the previous providers shown 
below to determine the fair value of Mrs Ss personal pensions if suitable advice had been 
given. I consider that there was no reason for Mrs S to have moved her personal pensions. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of 
the 
personal 
pension 
fund 
transferredNo longer 
existsNotional 
value from 
previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs S's investments had they remained with the previous provider until 
the end date. Quilter should request that the previous provider calculate these values. Any 
additional sum paid into the personal pension with M should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time it was actually paid in. 
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Quilter will need to 
determine a fair value for Mrs S's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional 
value in the calculation of compensation.Any withdrawal, income from the personal pension with M should be deducted from the 
notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mrs Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs S within 90 days of the date Quilter receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Quilter to pay Mrs S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs S wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called an income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs Ss circumstances and attitude to risk.
For the reasons given above, I also require Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited T/A 
Positive Solutions to pay Mrs S compensation of £300. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions Limited T/A Positive Solutions to pay Mrs S the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited T/A Positive Solutions to pay Mrs S any interest 
on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Quilter 
Financial Planning Solutions Limited T/A Positive Solutions to pay Mrs S any interest as set 
out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited T/A Positive Solutions pays Mrs S the balance. I 
would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be 
paid to Mrs S.
If Mrs S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions Limited T/A Positive Solutions.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman