DRN-3700861
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs K was initially represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around August 2017, Mrs K was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs K decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2021 the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ks behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs K to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the Feed in Tariff (FIT) and electricity savings would generate a combined benefit 
that would be more than enough to pay the costs of purchasing the system as well as 
the finance costs: and
Mrs K was told that she would make significant savings on her electricity bills; and
since the installation of the system, Mrs K has discovered it isnt working as promised 
 the system is underperforming; and
Mrs K was told P would register the FIT account on her behalf.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs K or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator thought that the system installed by P 
was underperforming against what theyd told Mrs K in their quote and contract. Our 
investigator thought Mrs K should be able to keep the system. He also thought Shawbrook 
should recalculate the original loan over its 15-year term, based upon the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mrs K so that she pays no more than that. 
The CMC told this service they were no longer representing Mrs K. And Mrs K hasnt 
responded to our investigators findings. Shawbrook have also not responded to our 
investigators findings.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs K paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs K could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs K and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The consumer says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, entitled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these, along with the Mrs Ks testimony and recollection of the 
sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P wouldve discussed this in detail with Mrs K, explaining any benefits of the system, prior to 
Mrs K agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mrs Ks 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. It also clearly 
sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mrs K was told that the cost of the system was £9,553.95. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £9,553.95. The monthly payment was £98.72. The total 
amount of credit is £9,453.95 after payment of a deposit of £100. And it goes on to show that 
the total amount payable would be £17,869.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,553.95, it would cost Mrs K more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing 
loan. 
FIT Payments
Mrs K has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricty savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the Mrs Ks recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to 
decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs K could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs K could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £98.58, which results in an average monthly income of £8.22. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £98.72. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment 
alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs K could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £174.83 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs K, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£453.41. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs K entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £101.02. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the quoted monthly loan repayment of £101.02, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs K could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This also supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the 
FIT payment would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the consumers 
version of events. However,  as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales 
process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably 
find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income 
alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs K that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs K was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
Page 23 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows that 
by between years 21 and 25 the overall benefits that Mrs K could expect to receive would 
have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs K that the system would pay for itself by 
between years 21 and 25 and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If 
that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to 
enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
System Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs K. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 1,497.14 kWh a year. And in turn would generate the income by way of 
FIT payments and savings in her energy bills.
I have looked at Mrs Ks FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 797.40 kWh a year. This is substantially less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale.
Im satisfied that the predicted generation, and the subsequent FIT payments and electricity 
savings, wouldve induced Mrs K into entering into the contract. And as the actual 
generation, and therefore the income, are significantly lower than she was promised, she 
has suffered a loss.
I note the CMC raised some additional points. But, while Ive considered these, having 
already established there was most likely a misrepresentation at the point of sale, I dont 
think its necessary to discuss these points in this decision. 
Ill go on to explain what I think fair compensation should be.
Putting things right
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly, 
reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact 
science and it is more difficult in a case like this where solar panels have been installed at 
the property.
Ive considered if its fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar panels and give 
Mrs K a refund of all the payments made (less any financial benefit gained from the 
installation of the solar panels). But I think it may be disproportionate to do this when the 
panels appear to be working and generating green energy. I think theres an alternative that 
would put Mrs K in a fair position. 
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mrs K doesnt suffer a 
financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should be cost 
neutral over the 15-year loan term.  In summary, my aim is to make sure that total outgoings 
(including the monthly loan repayments) are equal to any income and savings that the 
panels generate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mrs K from the solar panels over the 15-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel system. This 
will put Mrs K in a cost neutral position over the loan term, meaning that shes not 
disadvantaged by the misrepresentation. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs K have the following options as to how 
she would like the overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she pays a 
new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs K and she continues to make her current monthly 
payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or 
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs K and she pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term. It is likely that, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Ks monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she has paid more each month than she should have, resulting in an 
overpayment balance. If so, Mrs K has been deprived of the amount of the monthly 
overpayment. And so Shawbrook should pay Mrs K 8% simple interest*, per annum, on the 
amount of each overpayment from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
I also think that Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs K how much itss taken off. It should also give Mrs K a certificate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman