DRN-3365233
The complaint
Mr H complains about advice given by United Friendly, which later became part of The
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London), in 1992 to start contributing 
to a personal pension plan.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Hs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 24 February 
2022. Ive repeated here what I said about what had led to Mr Hs complaint and what Id 
provisionally decided. 
The application form which Mr H completed on 2 April 1992 records he was then aged 43
and self employed with no other pension provision. The policy started on 5 May 1992. Mr H
initially made contributions of £40 pm (gross), increased by £10 a month from November
1993. All of Mr Hs contributions were invested in the Pension Managed Fund (later renamed
the Pension UK Managed Fund). I understand that Mr H bought an annuity in 2013 with a
different provider.
Mr H complained, through his representative in January 2020. In summary, Mr Hs
representative said:
Mr H had little experience or knowledge of pensions and accepted the advice as
being in his best interests.
The adviser was bound by the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory
Office) rules. He had to give the investor all relevant information and use best
endeavours to enable the investor to understand any risks involved. And, in advising
as to the suitability of any investment contract, to have regard to the investors
financial position generally and to any rights he may have under an occupational
pension scheme or SERPS (State Earnings Related Pension Scheme). The adviser
also had common law duties, including to act with reasonable care and skill. And, as
confirmed in the 2015 Supreme Court case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health
Board, to disclose all risks and alternatives.
Investment costs are an important factor and the most reliable predictor of returns 
lower costs mean higher returns. Even seemingly small unnecessary costs can
compound into significant long term financial detriment. Theres no reliable way to
select in advance high cost funds that will deliver better returns than lower cost
alternatives. Choosing a higher cost actively managed fund over, say, a low cost
index fund exposes the client to an increased risk of a relatively poor investment
return. Only a small proportion of fund managers can deliver sufficient
outperformance to make up for the significant extra costs and theres no way to
identify those fund managers in advance.
A client must be also informed of all the costs they will be paying. Costs should be
avoided altogether especially if the alternative comes with guarantees and/or
protection against inflation. If they cant be avoided altogether they should be kept to
a minimum.
All of Mr Hs contributions were invested in a single, complex and high cost managed
fund. That was unsuitable as there was a lack of diversification and an unnecessary
concentration of risk as well as unnecessary costs. There were several funds
available. Contributions shouldve been spread across different funds to reduce risk.
Lower cost funds such as index funds shouldve been considered. A simple portfolio
of 50% UK equities and 50% UK bonds delivered a compounded total annual return
of approximately 500% during the period 1992 to 2013. The returns had been very
poor compared to a portfolio of low cost funds with an appropriate asset allocation.
That must be due to excessive costs or poor management or a combination of both.
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint. It said the personal pension plan hadnt been mis
sold and had been suitable for Mr H. It was designed for employees not in a company
pension scheme or for the self employed wishing to save for retirement in the most tax
efficient way. The paperwork completed at the time confirms Mr H was self employed with no
pension arrangements in place. His agreed need and priority were pension provision. He
was given personal pension illustrations based on assumed growth rates of 8.5% pa and
13% pa. No guarantees were given as to the amounts payable at retirement. He chose to
invest his premiums 100% in the Pension UK Managed Fund and originally selected to have
benefits payable at age 65. At the time there was no regulatory requirement to identify and
record his attitude to risk.
When the complaint was referred to us, Royal London initially said it had been made too
late. But Royal London later agreed that we could consider it.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think investing all of Mr Hs
contributions in the Pension Managed Fund was unsuitable. She referred to information
which said that Fund aims to achieve significant long-term growth by means of active
investment in a balanced range of ordinary shares, fixed interest securities, cash deposits
and other investments. The Fund invested in a range of investments. Mr Hs money was
spread over different investments and asset classes which reduced the risk to him. The fees
had been disclosed as had the costs of the advice. Although the representative had said the
return received was poor, Mr H had only paid in £2,000 gross before he transferred in 2013.
Mr Hs representative didnt accept the investigators view. It said she hadnt addressed the
complaint properly and had incorrectly stated: So the Pension Managed Fund invested in a
range of investments, not a single fund. For the avoidance of doubt, it was a single fund.
This meant that the risk was concentrated in the decision making of a single fund manager,
so the risk of a very poor long term return (which is what transpired) was far greater than it
needed to be and what it wouldve been with sensible diversification between different funds.
We asked Royal London what information wouldve been given to Mr H at the time about
fund choice. It said that in 1992 the fund choice was limited to two funds  the Pension
Managed Fund and the Pension Money Fund. Contributions could be invested 100% in
either or split between the two.
By 1993 the fund choices had increased slightly. In addition to the Pension Managed Fund
(which had been renamed the Pension UK Managed Fund) and the Pension Money Fund, a
Pension UK Equity Fund and a Pension UK Fixed Interest Fund were also offered.
Royal London also provided some information about the funds offered post 1996 (Series 2).
The Pension UK Managed Fund was described as investing in a variety of UK investments,
stock market equities, fixed interest stocks and the money markets and having a medium
risk profile.
Royal London provided further copies of some documentation, including the application
forms for the policy and the top up, the policy terms and conditions, an explanatory booklet
and a customer guide to unit linked insurance and pension plans. I assume Mr Hsrepresentative has seen those documents but, if not, we can provide copies on request.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think a personal pension was unsuitable for Mr H. He was self employed and he didnt
have access to an employers pension scheme. That said I think he did have preserved
benefits in a former employers pension scheme  hes made a complaint which is being
dealt with under separate reference about advice to transfer those deferred benefits to a
personal pension plan. So he did have some existing pension provision. But he was no
longer accruing benefits in his former employers scheme, he wasnt a member of another
employers scheme and he wasnt making contributions to a personal pension arrangement.
A need to save for retirement had been identified. A personal pension plan gave Mr H an
opportunity to do that in a tax efficient way  hed benefit from tax relief on his contributions.
So I think a recommendation that Mr H take out a personal pension was suitable.
Mr Hs representative has said that all of Mr Hs contributions shouldnt have been invested
in the Pension UK Managed Fund. I agree that diversification is (and always has been)
important and is generally regarded as good investment practice. While losses can still
result, diversification reduces risk. Spreading money across different types of investments
and assets classes means, if one holding performs poorly in the prevailing economic
circumstances, others may do better and so the risk of an overall loss is reduced. So I can
see the argument that investing in a single fund may not be prudent. But it will depend on the
fund itself. I further agree that the Pension UK Managed Fund is a single fund. But I
understand what the investigator meant  that it invested in a range of different assets and
so it was diversified in itself.
At the time, the choice was limited to two funds, one of which was the Pension UK Managed
Fund (then the Pension Managed Fund). The right to cancel notice said, about that Fund,
that it invests directly in equities, gilts and property or through any of the other funds to
spread the investment risk. I think how the Fund was described, with the express aim of
minimising risk by holding a very broad range of different investments and asset classes and
investing in other funds, indicates that it was diversified.
The later information Ive seen confirms that. It must have been produced after Mr Hs policy
was established and after the subsequent top up (because the Series 2 Funds are
mentioned but werent introduced until 1996). But I think its still helpful in establishing what
the Fund invested in at about the time Mr Hs pension was taken out. It said that was a
variety of UK investments, stock market equities, fixed interest stocks and the money
markets. Again that indicates that the fund was diverse and that Mr Hs money was spread
across a range of assets, albeit within one fund. The Pension UK Managed Fund provided a
balance of investments, some cautious or lower risk and some higher risk.
At the time Mr Hs pension was set up, fund choice was limited  only two funds were
available. I dont see that much wouldve been achieved by splitting Mr Hs contributions
over the two funds. I think that was unnecessary when the Pension Managed Fund offered
diversification, albeit within a single fund. I consider it was convenient and sufficiently
diverse.
I note the Pension UK Managed Funds risk profile was medium. Although we dont know
what Mr Hs attitude to investment risk was when he took out the plan (and there was no
requirement then to assess and record it), I havent seen anything to suggest he was risk
averse. Given his age, I think he could afford to take some degree of risk. The PensionMoney Fund was the only other fund available at the time and was low risk fund. But Mr H
was in a position to take more risk and potentially benefit from higher returns. So I think a
medium risk fund such as the Pension UK Managed Fund was suitable for Mr H.
Ive also seen the customer guide to unit linked insurance and pension plans. I think it made
it clear how a unit linked investment worked, including how the bid and offer prices operated.
I dont think the Pension UK Managed Fund was too complex for Mr H to understand.
The guide also set out the charges. From each premium paid to buy units, a proportion was
retained, along with the difference between the offer and bid prices plus a monthly plan fee.
There was also a initialisation allowance to meet the costs and expenses of setting up the
plan, deducted from the units in the early years. In addition, there was an annual
management charge of 0.25% pa. The charges were also set out in the explanatory booklet
 see section J which dealt with costs, charges and deductions and includes an explanation
as to how the initialisation charge worked.
The charges were also set out in the policy terms and conditions. But, if its not reasonable
to expect Mr H to have read and understood that document (which I think wouldve been
issued after his plan had been up), the literature Ive referred to (and which Ive no reason to
think wasnt provided to Mr H) did deal with charges. I think the charges were disclosed and
Mr H couldve queried them before he went ahead with the plan. I dont think the charges
were unreasonable or out of line with what other providers wouldve been charging at the
time for similar products.
Mr Hs representative says that due consideration should be given to low cost funds. And
that actively managed funds rarely sufficiently over perform to make up for the higher costs
and that its not possible to identify, in advance, those managers who will deliver sufficient
out performance. But I think thats somewhat of a generalisation which, taken to its logical
conclusion, would mean that no investor would select actively managed funds over lower
cost funds. Opinions will differ as to actively managed funds. Such funds can deliver
performance that, after fees are paid, beats the market, even if research shows that
relatively few actually achieve that consistently.
I further note whats been said about a portfolio of 50% UK Equities and 50% UK Bonds as a
comparison to illustrate that Mr H has suffered a loss. It may well be possible, with the
benefit of hindsight of over 30 years since the sale, to identify a different investment strategy
that wouldve performed better. But the issue isnt whether an alternative fund(s) wouldve
delivered a better result  its whether what was recommended was suitable. For the
reasons Ive explained, I think the Pension UK Managed Fund was suitable for Mr H.
I can understand why Mr H is disappointed with how the plan performed  it seems he paid
in about £2,000 but, by 2013 when he transferred to another provider to buy an annuity, his
fund value was only just over half of that. I accept that charges will have affected growth. But
the plan was a long term investment and it was anticipated that Mr H would continue to
contribute for a much longer period than was actually the case. As that didnt happen, the
charges might be viewed as somewhat disproportionate. But I dont think its Royal Londons
fault that Mr H didnt maintain his contributions. He also received regular statements so if he
was unhappy with performance and/or charges he couldve queried it with a view to
switching to a different product.
Neither Mr Hs representative nor Royal London offered any further comments in response 
to my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out in full above what I said in my provisional decision as to what had happened and 
my provisional findings. What Ive said forms part of this decision. 
In the absence of any further comments, arguments or evidence, my views remain as set out 
in my provisional decision and repeated above. 
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman