DRN-3814085
The complaint
Mr S complains about the customer service provided by Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, (Virgin Money), in relation to the attempted transfer of his Cash ISA from 
Virgin Money to another account provider.
What happened
Mr S had a Cash ISA with Virgin Money which matured in November 2021. He wanted to 
transfer the maturity proceeds to a new Cash ISA account with another provider (P). P then 
told Mr S that Virgin Money had denied that Mr Ss account existed so P couldnt open an 
account for him. Mr S is also unhappy that Virgin Money didnt contact him to discuss the 
matter. He is seeking compensation including an amount equal to the difference in interest 
payable by P and Virgin Money. Mr S also said that hed been unable to transfer the      
Cash ISA to a second account provider (Q) in 2022.
Virgin Money said in its final response that it hadnt received a transfer request from P and 
that a Cash ISA transfer request must be received from the institution to which the ISA was 
being transferred (and not from Mr S). It also said that P should have had access to an 
industry database which confirmed the address to which P needed to send the transfer 
request.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He agreed with 
Virgin Money that it wouldnt be able to transfer the account to a new provider if it hadnt 
received any instructions from the new provider. He also noted from Virgin Moneys call log 
history that it had called Mr S on two occasions.
Mr S disagreed. He said two account providers had said that they had contacted Virgin 
Money about transferring the ISA and that Virgin Money had said that Mr Ss account didnt 
exist. Mr S also said that his phone record of received calls on the relevant date showed no 
calls received from Virgin Money.
A different investigator issued a second view. She said:-
- Any requests to transfer money must be sent from the new ISA provider. Virgin Moneys 
Cash ISA team had checked and confirmed that no maturity form or Cash ISA transfer 
requests (relating to Mr Ss account) had been received by it since the Cash ISA 
maturity date
- The Maturity Options form which Mr S received from Virgin Money didnt give him the 
option to transfer the funds other than to an existing ISA with Virgin Money. There was 
no option on the form to transfer the Cash ISA externally. The options were to top up 
funds, withdraw some of the money, close the account or to transfer the funds to an 
existing ISA with Virgin Money.
- An email from Q dated 20 April 2022 said that it had received a rejection message from 
the system. This might indicate that incorrect information had been provided or that the 
incorrect system had been used for the transfer of the cash ISA. 
- There was no evidence of calls to Virgin Money from Mr S during this period. Virgin 
Money attempted to call Mr S and sent a text message on 23 March 2022 in relation to 
Mr Ss complaint. As the complaint handler was unable to speak to Mr S on that date, he 
sent a final response letter to Mr S which she would expect to have happened
- The responsibility to transfer a Cash ISA from Virgin Money is the customers and/or the
new ISA provider, and this request needed to be made via an electronic system
as no paper forms could be accepted. No evidence of any transfer attempts by either 
provider could be found by Virgin Money on this system. 
The investigator concluded that Virgin Money hadnt made any error or caused any delays in 
this process. So, she wouldnt be asking it to make any compensation award.
Mr S disagreed. He said in summary:-
- Evidence from P wasnt available as all messages were sent and accessed via a 
temporary ISA account which was terminated when the ISA wasnt opened. Q had told 
him by phone that multiple attempts were made to transfer the ISA from Virgin Money 
and Virgin Money had claimed the account didnt exist. The account number and sort 
codes came from Virgin Money's own statement.
- Virgin Money's claim to have phoned him when he was either unable to answer the call 
or didnt receive it didnt constitute a reasonable effort and no text was ever received 
from Virgin Money. It would have been in his phones text log but was not. 
- The fact that different banks had tried to claim his funds would have reasonably raised 
an issue that required dealing with, but Virgin Money had made no attempt to do this 
beyond an alleged single phone call.
- He thought that this Service should have obtained records from P and Q. He also said 
that this Service had ignored the fact that Virgin Money had received genuine transfer 
requests and refused to investigate why they hadnt completed successfully. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ss strength of feeling about what happened. Its clear how strongly Mr S 
feels about his complaint. I want to assure him that Ive carried out an independent review 
and considered everything that both parties have submitted. Ive also asked the investigator 
to contact P and Q for more information. 
We provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts. This 
is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and 
concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome  this 
means I might not mention everything Mr S has said, but I will comment on everything that 
makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Virgin Money has provided a copy of its Cash ISA maturity form to this Service. I can see 
that Option 4 on the form says that if a customer wants to transfer the ISA to another 
provider, that provider must contact Virgin Money to arrange this. So, the maturity form 
shouldnt have been used by Mr S to transfer his ISA to another ISA provider.
Virgin Money told this Service that it had received no contact from another ISA provider, nor 
had it received a maturity options form from Mr S. Virgin Money also said that transfers to a 
new ISA provider were to be requested by the new ISA provider via an electronic system 
rather than through paper forms (which were normally kept by the new provider). It said that although P might have selected Virgin Money on the ISA transfer system, P might also have 
chosen the wrong sort code as this differed for heritage customers of Virgin Money, and for 
former customers of two other banks Virgin Money had merged with. If the wrong company 
was selected, the sort code and account number wouldnt have been recognised. Notices 
had been added by Virgin Money to the ISA transfer system about this after Virgin Money 
had merged with the other banks. 
I note that Mr S said that this Service should have obtained evidence from P and Q. I asked 
the investigator to contact P and Q and request further information from them about the 
failed transfers. P didnt respond. We sent the information provided by Q to Virgin Money 
and Virgin Money said that Q didnt provide it with the correct information it needed to 
process the transfer. I can see that Mr S was a customer of a bank which then merged with 
and was rebranded as Virgin Money. I asked the investigator to ask Virgin Money to confirm 
that it would have been sufficiently clear to other ISA providers which information they 
needed to use to action the transfer. Virgin Money provided this Service with a copy of an 
email sent by an industry trade body to remind other ISA providers of the information to be 
used to make a transfer.
 
I can see that its possible that P and Q might have selected the incorrect information for    
Mr Ss transfer, and that this had resulted in Mr Ss account not being recognised. 
I note that Mr S is concerned that Virgin Money hadnt contacted him when the transfer 
requests failed. I have seen Virgin Moneys contact records which show that two attempts 
were made to phone Mr S in late March 2022 on two different dates, but there was no 
answer. I note that the calls were made around the date of the final response letter to Mr Ss 
complaint. So, I can see that Virgin Money might have thought that there was no further 
need to contact Mr S by phone after sending that to Mr S. I also note that Virgin Moneys 
final response letter provided a phone number for Mr S to call if he wanted to discuss the 
contents. So, I think it was acting reasonably here by offering assistance. But Virgin Money 
said that it had no records of Mr S calling it. 
I also asked the investigator to ask Virgin Money if it would have known from the information 
provided by the other ISA providers that it was Mr S requesting the ISA transfer. It appears 
from Virgin Moneys response that in the case of failed transfers, it wouldnt have known that 
Mr S wanted to transfer his Cash ISA. Virgin Money told this Service that where a transfer 
fails, the new ISA provider is expected to make any enquiries needed as they are 
responsible for the transfer process. Virgin Money has no record of failed transfer requests, 
just the successful ones. So, as Virgin Money didnt know from the failed requests that Mr S 
wanted to transfer his Cash ISA, I can understand that it then wouldnt have contacted him 
about them.
Mr S was also concerned that he was unable to progress the closure of his account at a 
local branch. We provided this information to Virgin Money and it has now arranged for      
Mr Ss account to be closed.
While I appreciate Mr S has had a frustrating experience, Ive not found that Virgin Money 
has got anything wrong here and I cant safely say that Virgin Money has acted 
inappropriately here regarding the failed transfers. So, I wont ask it to do anything further. 
I know this isnt the answer Mr S was hoping for, but I hope he can take some comfort from 
what Ive said and the knowledge that an independent third-party has reviewed Virgin 
Moneys actions. My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman