DRN-4039062
The complaint
Ms W complains that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited (Atlanta) unfairly charged her
a cancellation fee when she cancelled her home insurance policy within the 14-day cooling
off period.
What happened
Ms W took out a home insurance policy online through Atlanta after finding quotes for home
insurance on a comparison website. Within the 14-day cooling off period, Ms W changed
her mind about the policy and cancelled it.
Atlanta charged Ms W a £25 cancellation fee. Ms W said she didnt know this fee was
payable and didnt think it was fair, so she complained to Atlanta. Ms W also complained that
Atlanta had handled a live chat with her poorly and information in its insurance product
information document (IPID) was incorrect.
Atlanta didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. It said Ms W wouldve been asked to check a
number of documents, including its terms of business, before she bought the policy. It said
its terms of business stated a cancellation fee of £25 would be payable if the policy (having
started) was cancelled within 14 days of being taken out. Atlanta thought its agent had
handled the live chat with Ms W correctly and the information in its IPID was correct.
Ms W disagreed with Atlantas findings on the cancellation fee and brought her complaint to
us. The investigator who looked at Ms Ws complaint didnt uphold it. She thought Atlanta
had brought the cancellation fee to Ms Ws attention when she bought the policy by sending
her a copy of its terms of business. And she said this information was on Atlantas website
and so was available to Ms W beforehand.
Ms W disagreed. She didnt think the information about the cancellation fee was clearly
brought to her attention before she bought the policy. So her complaint came to me to
decide.
In my first provisional decision of 26 January 2023, I explained why I intended to uphold
Ms Ws complaint. Ms W accepted my decision. Atlanta didnt and sent in some new
information about the online journey it said Ms W wouldve taken before she bought the 
policy that we hadnt seen before. 
The information Atlanta sent in changed my conclusions on Ms Ws complaint. So I issued a 
second provisional decision on 21 February 2023 in which I explained why I now didnt 
intend to uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Ms W disagrees with my second provisional decision. Atlanta hasnt responded to it. Ms Ws 
complaint has now come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons given in my second provisional decision, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why.
In my first provisional decision, I said (among other things): 
Under the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (the regulator of financial businesses like 
Atlanta), a consumer has the right to cancel certain insurance policies without penalty and 
without giving a reason within 14 days of taking the policy out. 
The rules go on to say that, if a consumer chooses to cancel in this way, they can be 
charged:
A proportionate premium for the time the policy was in force; and
An administration fee thats proportionate to the service provided, with no element
of profit.
The rules also say a business can only charge an administration fee (which includes a
cancellation fee) if it can prove a consumer was duly informed about the amount payable.
These rules mean Atlanta needed to tell Ms W about its £25 cancellation fee before she
agreed to buy the policy. Initially, Atlanta told us Ms W wouldve been asked to check a 
number of documents, including its terms of business, before she went ahead with it. But at 
the time I gave my first provisional decision, Atlanta didnt show us what Ms W wouldve 
been asked to check nor, specifically, how she was duly informed of the £25 cancellation 
fee. 
Ms W had told us she didnt know anything about Atlanta having the right to charge a
cancellation fee during the cooling off period until after she bought the policy  by which time
it was too late and she couldnt avoid paying it. Ms W said the only notification she got
during the application process about any cancellation fees being payable was on the
comparison website. This said there was a policy cancellation fee outside the cooling off
period of £40 and that a cancellation fee during the cooling off period may also apply. It
also said Ms W should check the providers policy documents for the most accurate details
and applicable fees.
Based on this information, in my first provisional decision, I said I didnt think Atlanta had 
proved it duly informed Ms W of the cancellation fee of £25 she would be charged if she 
changed her mind about the policy during the 14-day cooling off period. As such, I said I 
didnt think it was fair and reasonable of Atlanta to charge Ms W the fee. I also said I 
intended to direct Atlanta to pay Ms W £100 for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused her.
In my first provisional decision, I also noted Ms W decided to cancel her policy because she 
was unhappy to find the underwriter wasnt who she thought it was. She said Atlantas IPID 
was misleading about this. I said I didnt intend to uphold this part of Ms Ws complaint 
because I hadnt seen anything in Atlantas IPID that looked to me to be incorrect. 
As Ive already mentioned, Ms W accepted my first provisional decision. But Atlanta sent in 
new information to support its view that I shouldnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Atlanta told us Ms W had the opportunity on two separate occasions to review its charges 
before she bought the policy. And it said she agreed to them before the policy was
set up.Atlanta said once Ms W selected its quote from the comparison website she originally
searched for home insurance quotes, she was re-directed to Atlantas website. It said that
once Ms W reviewed her quote on its website, she was shown Atlantas Terms of Business
and a Table of Charges, which she was also asked to review. Atlanta sent us a screenshot 
to show us this part of its sales process. It says: Please review the Terms of Business and 
Table of Charges and ensure youre happy with the cover described in the documents before 
purchasing the policy.
Once the Table of Charges was clicked on, Atlanta said its various charges, including the
cancellation charge of £25 that applied to Ms Ws policy during the cooling off period, 
wouldve been shown. Atlanta sent us a screenshot showing this.
Atlanta then said that, before Ms W could accept the quote and set up the policy, she was
presented with the Table of Charges for a second time. It says Ms W was asked to tick a 
box to confirm she was happy to accept the policy based on the information presented to 
her. Atlanta sent us a screenshot, headed Agree and continue. This says, among other
things, We want to make sure there are no unexpected fees or charges during your policy
so we recommend you read our Table of Charges. The screenshot also includes a box to
be ticked by an applicant giving various confirmations to do with the policy.
I attached to my second provisional decision the three screenshots Atlanta sent us, so Ms W 
could review them.
In my second provisional decision, I said I found the new information Atlanta had sent in 
persuasive and that this information was: 
likely to be a reasonably accurate record of the online journey Ms W wouldve taken 
before she bought the policy. I dont know if Ms W opened the link that wouldve shown her 
the Table of Charges, including the cancellation charge that applied to her policy in the 
cooling off period. I think its quite likely, based on what Ms W has told us so far, that she 
didnt. And I note that, on the final screenshot, Ms W isnt asked to confirm specifically that 
shes seen and accepts the information set out in the Table of Charges. But in making the 
information available in the way it says it did  as Ive outlined above  before Ms W bought 
the policy, I think Atlanta has done enough to show Ms W was duly informed of the 
cancellation charge in the cooling off period before she went ahead with it. And Im 
satisfied the amount of the cancellation charge is proportionate to the service Atlanta 
provided to Ms W.
This means that, based on the new information Atlanta has given me, I now dont think it
would be fair and reasonable to uphold Ms Ws complaint. In my first provisional decision, I
said I also intended to award Ms W £100 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of
the cancellation charge had caused her. But since I now dont think Atlanta treated Ms W
unfairly in charging it, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to award Ms W this
compensation.
Atlanta hasnt responded to my second provisional decision. Ms W says shes unhappy with 
it. She says the information Atlanta gave her was misleading and she wasnt made aware of 
the cancellation fee during the cooling off period. She also says she didnt know who the 
underwriter was (she says finding out who that was is what led her to cancel the policy) and 
she wasnt given the IPID.
We are an evidence-based service and Ms W hasnt given me any new evidence to support 
her views. In my second provisional decision I explained why I found the new information 
Atlanta gave us about Ms Ws probable online journey persuasive. The evidence Ms W has given us previously and her comments on my second provisional decision dont persuade 
me I should change any of the conclusions I reached in my second provisional decision. 
And, as I said in my first provisional decision, I didnt see anything incorrect in the IPID, 
which Ms W previously told us shed looked at while going through the application. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my second provisional decision (the relevant extracts 
from which Ive quoted above), I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman