DRN-4146598
The complaint
Mr K complains about the price quoted by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) to renew his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K says he received a quote to renew his policy which was significantly higher than what 
hed paid the previous year. Mr K says he was expecting a slight increase but not to this 
extent, so he complained.  
LV responded and explained theyd made changes to improve the accuracy of their premium 
calculations. They explained they cant share the specifics on how they calculate premiums 
as this is business sensitive information. LV explained, normally they wouldve introduced 
changes like this to new customers only and then slowly introduced it to their existing 
customers with restrictions on how much their premiums would increase to reduce the 
likelihood of a large premium increase like Mr K has had. LV said, however, the new 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) pricing rules which came into effect meant they had to 
apply the same tariff to both existing and new customers which has led to some existing 
customers being impacted more than LV wouldve liked. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought LV hadnt treated Mr K unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr K paid a premium of £815.91 in 2022 but then received a quote for £1,379.80 in 
2023  this is around 69% more than what he paid the year before. 
So, I understand why Mr K is concerned about the price increase. LV have provided me with 
confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr Ks price increase was 
calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive 
checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he has been charged has been calculated 
correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other LV customers in Mr Ks position will 
have been charged a lower premium. 
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about LVs risk model, but I can see one 
factor for the increase relates to new rules for general insurance pricing introduced by the 
FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only and insurers need 
to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The rules arent 
retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr K was offered his renewal by LV, so 
they did need to follow these at the time. And, given theyve done this  and the information 
provided shows Mr K hasnt been charged more than the ENBP - I cant say theyve acted 
unfairly if this has resulted in a change in price. 
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr K would likely want to see to understand 
why his premium increased as it did at renewal. A large reason for the change is in response 
to the FCA pricing rules and LV taking the steps they needed to, allowing them to be 
compliant with these. Mr K may feel this is unfair, but LV, like all insurers, will review their 
approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes to the premium. They have 
explained the ENBP was a change across all their policies as they changed their approach. 
So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the change and Mr K hasnt been 
treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their approach. 
I can see the 2023 renewal also took into account an accidental damage claim which 
occurred earlier in the year. The information provided by LV shows the affect this had on the 
price  again I cant share this with Mr K, but I have carefully reviewed this. So, I cant say 
LV have made a mistake here when calculating the renewal. And, in taking the claim factor 
into account in the way they have, I cant say LV have treated Mr K unfairly.     
LV have described how they refreshed their rating system to more accurately reflect the 
expected costs they underwrite and how this led to Mr Ks premium increasing at renewal. In 
addition to this, I can see LV did, in their renewal quote, remind Mr K that he could shop 
around to see if he could get a better price. Its not clear when Mr K first took out his policy, 
but if there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide specific wording about the 
benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mr K fairly, I think theyve also acted in 
line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I can see Mr K also complains about the steps taken by LV when he moved address a few 
days before the policy was set to renew. He says he informed LV and they sent him a quote 
for his new address which was for £1,711.92. Mr K explains this is not only a further increase 
compared to his 2023 renewal for his previous address but also more than double what he 
paid for his previous address in 2022. 
Mr K questions how the price can be higher than the 2023 renewal for his previous address 
when his new address isnt too far from his previous address, and he points out the move 
has led to a refund in premium for his car insurance policy with LV. Mr K questions how a 
price increase for his home insurance can be justified when his car insurance has become 
cheaper. Mr K also raises concerns about his travel insurance with LV, which he says has 
also increased despite him having never made a claim.   I think its important to make clear, my decision only focusses on Mr Ks home insurance 
price increase for his previous address  as that is what is covered in LVs complaint 
response. I note Mr K says he queried the price increase for his new address, but I havent 
seen evidence that Mr K has raised a complaint and LV have provided a response to this 
complaint or his concern relating to the travel insurance. Mr K will need to raise these as 
complaints with LV in the first instance before our service is able to consider these.  
I understand why Mr K has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive checked the 
pricing information from LV. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or treated Mr K unfairly. I 
wish to reassure Mr K Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman