DRN-3028910
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2005. Miss S says Grattan Plc mis-sold her PPI.
  
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint.
Miss Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ss. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ss 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Grattan should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Grattans offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Grattan made it clear that Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. Miss S could not recall how she took out the policy, which isnt unreasonable 
considering the amount of time that has passed since the sale. Grattan has said that the 
policy was taken out via telephone in February 2005. It no longer has a copy of the call 
recording, but it has given me a copy of the telephone script it says was in use at the 
time, and Im satisfied this represents what would have been discussed with Miss S 
when she took out the policy. In this, the Grattan representative had to give Miss S the 
choice to take out the policy or decline it. So, I think its more likely Miss S gave her 
consent to take out the policy. I note that Miss S first took out her Grattan account in 
2000, some five years before the sale, so I think she was aware the PPI was a separate 
product to the credit and that she didnt have to have the PPI alongside the credit if she 
didnt want it.
Grattan recommended the PPI to Miss S, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. Miss S has said that at the time of the sale, she was unemployed and therefore had 
no use for the policy, and that she had some savings available to her. Grattan asked for 
confirmation of this, and some form of evidence, to show Miss S was unemployed at the 
time. But Miss S didnt respond to Grattan. Our adjudicator also contacted Miss S 
representative to ask for more of an explanation around Miss S employment at the time 
of the sale and her savings. But the response received was that they couldnt provide 
any evidence of her sick pay, which I dont think is related to her possible unemployment. 
Our adjudicator again tried to contact Miss S directly to ask for more information about 
her employment and other means at the time of the sale but didnt get a response. 
Ive also taken into account other information available to me, such as the telephone call 
script Grattan has provided.  In this, one of the first questions is whether or not Miss S is 
working at least 16 hours a week, and if not, the sale is to be abandoned. While I cant 
be sure that the script was followed precisely, I think its more likely this key question 
was asked. So, without further information about Miss S circumstances at the time of the 
sale, its difficult for me to safely conclude that the policy wasnt suitable for Miss S.
Although Miss S says she had a medical condition some time before the policy was 
taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Grattan to have recommended it. I say this 
because the condition occurred around four years before she took out the policy, and 
she hasnt mentioned any ongoing or recurring issues in relation to it that were affecting 
her at the time of the sale. So, I think its unlikely she would have expected her condition 
to be the main reason for claiming on the policy.
Its possible the information Grattan gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. As I said above, I dont have enough information to conclude its more 
likely the policy was unsuitable for Miss S, or that it was too dissimilar to what she 
reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was given. It also looks like 
it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss S would have declined the cover had Grattan 
done anything more.
Overall, I consider that its more likely Miss S would have still taken out PPI. I think its likely 
the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time. I also think the policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those circumstances, 
I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Grattan should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Miss Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Grattan doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Grattan should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Grattans offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Grattan didnt tell Miss S about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Grattan and Miss S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Grattan didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case. 
I dont think Grattan acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss S because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Ss representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Miss S should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Grattan failed to tell Miss S about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss S wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for   
Miss S in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Grattan not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Ss representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Grattans failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Grattan to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Miss S paid for her PPI policy. Grattan has offered to pay in line 
with FCAs guidance as set out above on the premiums paid post 6 April 2007, due to the 
recurring non-disclosure of the level of commission. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss S 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Grattan had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Grattans offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) on premiums from 6 April 2007 onwards, in line with the FCAs guidance to firms 
is fair in all the circumstances.
 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Ss complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Grattan 
Plc should pay Miss S an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) on premiums 
from 6 April 2007 onwards if it hasnt already done so. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman