DRN-3798852
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed her account and demanded 
she pay back the overdraft within a very short space of time. She believes Santander 
breached the terms of the account and is unhappy that this critical information wasnt 
communicated in other forms such as email or phone. 
What happened
Mrs M held a student account with an overdraft facility with Santander. The terms and 
conditions of the account stated that:
If you dont regularly pay in your main form of funding, we may discontinue some of the 
services offered on your account or close your account.
Santander started writing to Mrs M on 19 July 2021 regarding the status of her account. In its 
initial letter it said that it noticed that Mrs M hadnt been making regular payments into the 
account and asked she make payment within three weeks. It also asked her to call if she 
cant make the payments so it could try agree a plan.
As Mrs M failed to get in touch or make regular payments into the account Santander 
repeatedly sent letters throughout 2021 until August 2022 asking her to make payments into 
her account and outlining what would happen if she didnt do so including the removal of her 
overdraft, cancellation of direct debits and ultimately the removal of all banking facilities.
As Mrs M failed to fund the account correctly Santander took the decision to place 
restrictions on her account and wrote to her in July 2022 and then it removed Mrs Ms 
overdraft facility and wrote to her about this on 3 August 2022 and confirmed this was done 
in writing 16 August 2022. This left Mrs M with an outstanding balance of £1,465.
Mrs M called Santander about this on 24 August 2022. Santander said all the correct 
procedures were followed and that the overdraft was removed as it wasnt being maintained 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs M was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and thought that Santander had provided 
Mrs M with enough prior warning in line with the terms and conditions of the account about 
the closure of the account and that Santander hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mrs M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
The summary I have provided above is factual and I believe it to be correct and collated on 
the evidence I have reviewed including but not limited to letters, Santanders internal screen 
shots and contact notes. I hope that Mrs M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed 
her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do 
that.
It might help by me explaining my role is to look at the problems Mrs M has experienced and 
see if Santander has done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put her 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
modest compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
The crux of Mrs Ms complaint is that Santander removed the overdraft facility on her 
account and other banking facilities without the required notice and outside the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
So the question I have to ask is whether Santander did anything wrong in removing banking 
facilities or in the processes it followed when doing this.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms account state that:
The account must be used as your main or primary current account.
Your main form of fundingmust be paid into it. If you dont regularly pay in your 
main form of funding, we may discontinue some of the services offered on your 
account or close your account.
I can see from the account movements provided by Santander on Mrs Ms account that from 
February 2021 to July 2021, August 2021 to January 2022 and then until August 2022 no 
funds were received from Mrs M into the account following which the banking facilities and 
overdraft was removed. So on this basis as Mrs M wasnt complying with the terms and 
conditions of the account Santander was entitled to close her account.
Mrs M says she wasnt made aware of the terms and conditions of the account and that 
Santander removed her banking facilities without calling or consulting with her or giving her 
enough time to respond.
But as per the summary above even if Mrs M didnt understand the terms and conditions of 
the account from July 2021 Santander repeatedly wrote to her regarding this, the status of 
her account and what needed to be done. These letters continued into 2022 and informed 
her what could happen if the account wasnt being managed properly  including the 
overdraft and other facilities being removed. And because Mrs M failed to respond or 
manage the account in line with the terms and conditions Santander took the decision to 
remove the overdraft. 
Mrs M says that the first letter she received was dated 18 August 2022 which was the first 
point she was informed anything was happening. But Ive seen a copy of all the letters and 
they were sent to the same address Mrs M has listed with us. I havent been given any 
reason why Mrs M might not have received these letters, indeed most post is delivered 
correctly and I think it unlikely that Mrs M didnt receive any of the letters and Santander isnt 
obliged to use other forms of communication, so I cant say Santander did anything wrong or 
treated Mrs M unfairly. It informed her of the status of the account and gave plenty of notice 
about what was to happen if this wasnt corrected in time.I understand that Mrs M would like her account reopened but ultimately who Santander 
decides to provide its banking services to is a commercial decision and it isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint as I dont 
think Santander has done anything wrong or treated Mrs M unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman