DRN-1374081
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc(NatWest) dealt with her attempt 
to make a payment for a property. 
What happened
Mrs B was due to make a payment for a property on 11 October 2019. She says she was 
unable to make the payment and called NatWest to find out why and was told due to the size 
of the payment that she would need to attend a branch. Mrs B says she was given details of 
a local branch which she attended, only to discover it was closed. She says she then went to 
a different branch which she knew was open. Mrs B says she was told by NatWest it was too 
late to process a CHAPS payment and the branch manager refused to  leave his office to 
speak to her. Mrs B also says that she has significant health problems which 
NatWest exasperated by its actions and it also jeopardised the property purchase. She 
would like a substantial compensation award.
NatWest accepts it made a mistake and gave Mrs B details of a branch that wasn't open that 
day. Its apologised and offered compensation of £105. NatWest says it didn't make a 
mistake by asking Mrs B to attend a branch for a payment of this amount and says the 
property purchase payment went through on the next working day.
Mrs B unhappy with that response brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought 
NatWest had dealt with the complaint fairly by apologising and paying an appropriate level of 
compensation. The investigator thought we could only consider what did happen and that 
the property purchases went through successfully.
Mrs B doesn't accept that view and says we haven't considered the serious damage done to 
her health by NatWest and have not considered all of her complaint points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mrs B will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what took place.
There is no question here that NatWest made a mistake by directing Mrs B to a closed 
branch. I have listened to the call between the parties and think that NatWest ought to have 
told Mrs B that there was a cut off time for CHAPS payments. So I have no doubt Mrs B was 
caused inconvenience and distress in those circumstances and that matters were made 
worse by discovering she had missed the CHAPS deadline. I also accept that when Mrs B 
found that out, she would have been concerned about the property purchase. 
I'm satisfied that NatWest has fairly apologised for what took place and explained that it's not 
responsible for the CHAPS deadline and that payments of this size have to be completed in branch. I'm also satisfied that it's paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation, which 
I think fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience Mrs B was caused. I have to 
consider the actual impact that NatWest's actions had and I can see that the property 
purchase was delayed by about 2 days. I appreciate that Mrs B has told us she is unwell and 
NatWest's actions caused her health serious damage. But in order to consider if that was the 
case, I would need to see expert evidence on that point. And so without such evidence I 
can't fairly hold NatWest responsible for any additional problems caused to Mrs B's health.
I appreciate that Mrs B also complains about NatWest's staff in the branch she attended and 
in particular the branch manager. It is difficult to be sure what took place. But in any event I 
don't think it would have made any difference if the manager had left his office, as the cut off 
time had passed and I don't think NatWest staff could have processed the payment as its not 
responsible for those cut off times.
Overall I accept NatWest made a mistake and caused Mrs B distress and inconvenience but 
I'm satisfied it's paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. In those circumstances 
I can't fairly order it to do anything further here. I appreciate that Mrs B is unlikely to accept 
my decision and I can see that she has said she will take court action against NatWest. But I 
think this brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman