DRN-2630453
The complaint
Mr S complains that he wasnt made aware of regulatory information or told about the costs 
involved with advice from WPS ADVISORY Ltd (WPS) regarding the possible transfer of his 
deferred Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits. He says he wasnt told about some 
additional advice costs, or the overall costs and wasnt made aware of a Transfer Value 
Comparator (TVC) report which was used as part of the analysis and was set out in the 
suitability report, but which contained misleading information. 
 
He complains that he wasnt made aware that WPS didnt have to complete the Confirmation 
Advice Form (CAF), which he says didnt allow him the requisite time to make an informed 
decision about whether to transfer.
He also complains that WPS breached General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and that 
this caused him considerable distress. 
He says the advice and service he received was misleading and not fit for purpose and 
would like a refund of all the charges imposed as well as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered. 
What happened
Mr S had been a member of an OPS and in late 2019 he received an information pack from 
the scheme setting out the choices he had with regards to his deferred benefits. In 
January 2020 Mr S was approached by WPS, who had been engaged by the scheme to 
discuss members options, offering its services at a reduced cost. It said the scheme would 
meet half the cost of its £500 fee leaving Mr S to pay the other £250 and any subsequent 
advice costs.
Mr S contacted WPS to discuss his situation. At that time he was 66, retired, and had no 
dependents. He also held an existing self invested personal pension (SIPP) and was 
receiving his state pension. His annual pension entitlement from the OPS was £9,994 and 
his cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the scheme was £163,514.86. 
Mr S said the CETV information was sent directly to WPS by the scheme trustees without his 
authorisation. From that point there was deadline of three months from the date of the CETV 
for the trustees to receive all the necessary paperwork to complete a transfer. 
Mr S engaged WPS in March 2020 and, during a telephone conversation, gave it the 
information it needed to provide an advice report. The transfer process progressed, but there 
was a period of suspension during April 2020 while Mr S was engaged in discussions with 
the scheme administrators about the CETV. But by 18 May 2020 WPS had issued its 
suitability report which recommended that Mr S transferred his benefits to a SIPP invested 
into an active tracker portfolio. 
The initial advice fee was quoted as being £375, which included £125 for implementing the 
investment strategy  but there were to be no ongoing fees. The TVC report showed that 
Mr S would be giving up £39,414 as a result of the transfer, but WPS said that as he wasnt 
going to purchase an income the transfer was still appropriate for his objectives.
On 26 May 2020, after some discussion about the provision of the CAF, WPS issued a 
section 48 certificate to the trustees confirming its advice  and the transfer completed in 
due course. Mr S decided to pursue his own investment strategy which meant the additional 
£125 fee wasnt payable.
  
But in June 2020 Mr S complained about a number of things which had occurred during the 
process. He made the following points:
As he didnt take up the optional policy implementation the additional cost of £125 
wasnt due. He assumed the total cost should be £250 as requested by WPS in its 
invoice.
The total charges hadnt been set out to him in the two hour advisory conversation of 
March 2020  which he thought was a regulatory requirement.
He submitted a cheque for the £250 fee but thought that all the charges and fees 
should be refunded as WPSs service and advice hadnt been fit for purpose.
He hadnt been expecting to receive a TVC report, but in any case, he thought it was 
misleading as it contained inaccurate information which exaggerated the TVC gap 
which WPS relied upon within its advice report.
So he didnt think he should pay for the advice report and the other services WPS 
had provided as it hadnt used accurate information which didnt allow him to make 
an informed decision.
He thought WPSs actions in not returning the CAF that was in its possession put the 
terms and conditions of the CETV  namely meeting the three month deadline, into 
doubt. He said this caused him severe stress and denied him the opportunity to make 
an informed decision.  
He thought that WPS had committed multiple breaches of confidentiality, particularly 
as it was in possession of his CETV quotations before he had chance to contact 
WPS and agree an advisory relationship.
    
WPS didnt uphold the complaint. It gave the following response:
In its view the time taken to provide a suitability report following the suspension of the 
advice process from 1 to 20 April 2020 wasnt unreasonable.
It gave Mr S the option of receiving his suitability report by email on 15 May 2020. He 
chose to receive it by post and it sent the report out on 18 May 2020  as it said it 
would. It said it couldnt be held responsible for any postal delays that then occurred.
It apologised for highlighting a total advice cost of £375 and noted the invoice it later 
produced was only for the agreed £250. But it said that, at the time of issuing the 
report, it was unaware that it wouldnt be implementing the investment 
recommendation for Mr S which would have incurred the additional £125 fee. It didnt 
agree that its adviser hadnt covered the advisory costs involved as it said these were 
set out in its client agreement which Mr S signed on 2 March 2020. It said it didnt 
agree that any of its charges were misleading and Mr S had failed to provide further 
evidence to demonstrate what he meant by misleading charges.
The TVC was a regulatory requirement when providing analysis on a pension 
transfer. In this case it had to provide a comparison with the OPS benefits which 
provided a spousal benefit as part of the scheme. 
Although Mr S didnt have a spouse  which was an important factor in 
recommending the transfer, the TVC needed to compare the benefits on a like for like 
basis, so an assumption of a marital status had to be used.
It thought it had explained that some elements of the TVAS were regulatory 
requirements but that its advice was based on a larger number of factors.As part of the agreement with the employer/OPS to provide advice, WPS made 
arrangements for the trustees to accept its section 48 certificate in place of the usual 
CAF. It apologised if that wasnt made clear to Mr S but thought its process worked 
better for scheme members and had been accepted by other schemes as well. It 
didnt agree however that this caused any delay in Mr S making his decision as it was 
signed on the same day that the adviser spoke to Mr S following provision of the 
suitability report. 
It didnt think it had breached GDPR regulations and had made Mr S aware of 
information it might share with other parties. It said that Mr S should approach the 
trustees of the scheme if he was unhappy that it had provided information to WPS in 
advance of their meeting.
It didnt think it had done anything wrong during the process and was sorry that Mr S 
hadnt seen the value of the advice it gave him. But it noted that an additional £50 
was still owed to it for the VAT due on its invoice.
Mr S wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld making 
the following points in support of his assessment:
He looked at the relevant law, regulation and industry best practices and concluded 
that WPS hadnt acted in a negligent manner. He thought it had considered Mr Ss 
circumstances fully and followed its advice process  so he didnt think it should have 
to refund its fees.
He thought the TVC had been completed in accordance with the regulators 
guidelines and was a like for like comparison of what the scheme would provide 
against the costs of the same benefits from a personal pension. 
He hadnt seen any evidence to show WPS had failed to adhere to GDPR guidelines. 
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think the investigator had acted with impartiality and had 
defended WPSs position at every opportunity. He reiterated the complaint points which he 
didnt think the investigator had answered and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint, so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigators assessment, which I know will be a 
disappointment to Mr S as Ive seen the strength of his feelings about this matter so Ill 
explain my reasons.
Mr S has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which I have read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that he will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not to address 
every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
And for further clarity this decision will only be considering Mr Ss complaint about
WPS. I wont be looking at his comments about the way this service has dealt with
his complaint to date as this has been dealt with separately, and isnt part of my role in
determining this issue with WPS.Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 requires that trustees or scheme managers 
check that advice has been taken before allowing a transfer to proceed, where the proposed 
transfer involves a Defined Benefit pension or other safeguarded benefits worth more than 
£30,000. So in this case Ive looked at the advice WPS gave Mr S and the process it 
followed in order to determine if that advice was suitable for Mr Ss situation. In order to 
establish what happened Ive set out a timeline below to show how events around the 
transfer unfolded. 
Timeline
In January 2020 Mr S received an approach from WPS following his receipt of a retirement 
pack from his OPS. The letter offered him the opportunity of advice on his OPS benefits for 
50% of the usual advice fee.
In early March 2020 Mr S had a telephone discussion with WPS about his circumstances 
and objectives. WPS then asked Mr S to validate his email address using his national 
insurance number as a reason to be able to communicate by email. 
Mr S then complained about what he saw as disproportionate requirements for the 
validation.
 
On 16 March WPS asked Mr S to complete a risk profile questionnaire which suggested he 
had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk (ATR). It confirmed that its analysis of 
whether the transfer was in his best interest was now underway. Mr S wanted an additional 
word inserted into the ATR definition and also said that, as his preference for his funds was 
a SIPP with a certain provider, and his situation was regarded as unique, he was unsure if 
there was a need for WPS to carry out all the transfer analysis. 
On 26 March Mr S asked WPS if he should get a new CETV given the recent fall in interest 
rates. On the same day WPS issued Mr S with the TVC and confirmed the reason for 
completion. It asked Mr S whether that information might affect his decision around the 
transfer  given that the reasons for the transfer didnt involve a like for like income 
comparison. 
On 31 March Mr S complained about the lack of protection/encryption on the email WPS 
sent attaching the TVC. He said he wasnt told about the TVC, wasnt aware of the firm that 
carried it out, and didnt think it had any value on the outcome as it was based on untrue 
statements and assumptions. Mr S confirmed he had enquired about a new CETV with 
trustees.
 
WPS explained the rationale behind the TVC. It said that the OPS also helped to select the 
firm to do the calculations and that Mr Ss information was only shared for those purposes. It 
said it had explained the need for the TVC during the earlier information gathering process 
and said the assumptions used were set by the regulator and couldnt be altered. 
On 1 April Mr S told WPS to wait until I receive appropriate responses and confirmation 
from the administrators.
On 8 April Mr S chased WPS for a progress update but it said it couldnt complete its report 
as Mr S told it to put things on hold. 
On 9 April Mr S told WPs to suspend any further action until he heard about the outcome of 
his complaint about the CETV from the trustees.
  On 20 April, despite remaining unhappy with the position around the CETV, Mr S requested 
WPS to complete and issue its advice as long as there were no additions to the £250 + VAT 
charge. This was confirmed by WPS the following day and it assumed that Mr S had 
received extra grace to complete the transfer after returning some of his transfer forms to 
the trustees.
On 29 April Mr S asked WPS about the progress of his report and was told it was still being 
prepared. 
On 6 May a further progress chase led to Mr S making a complaint which WPS answered on 
11 May. It indicated the report was being peer checked and it said it would respond to his 
complaint the next day but it didnt respond, so Mr S escalated his complaint and the 
response followed on 15 May. WPS said the report would be issued on 18 May and could be 
emailed but Mr S asked for it to be sent by first class post. 
On 18 May WPS confirmed the report had been posted.
 
On 25 May Mr S confirmed the report had arrived on 21 May and wanted to discuss the 
content. A telephone conversation was agreed for 26 May which confirmed the 
recommendation for the transfer to go ahead  so Mr S asked for the CAF and section 48 
forms to be completed and sent to him. He also asked for WPS to generate its invoice for 
£250. 
WPS said that its own section 48 certificate was acceptable to the trustees and made 
arrangements to issue it to them. It also said it would normally explore the option of 
transferring the funds to the SIPP provider, but as Mr S  wanted to use a self managed fund 
 and it thought that he was making an informed decision, WPS was happy for Mr S to 
complete the transfer directly with the scheme.  
Mr S said that the CAF stated that failure to correctly complete and sign this form will 
prevent payment of the members transfer value, and he thought WPSs refusal to issue the 
CAF was delaying matters and causing him to be in breach of the terms and conditions of 
the transfer and meant he was unable to make his final decision about the transfer.
But on 27 May 2020 the trustees received the section 48 certificate which proved to be 
satisfactory for them to progress the transfer.  
The suitability of the advice
Ive first considered the time taken to complete the advisory part of the transfer  Im not 
considering the time it took the trustees to complete the transfer after they received the 
section 48 certificate from WPS. 
Following their first telephone discussion WPS asked Mr S to complete a risk profile 
questionnaire on 16 March 2020 and, following his response, WPS confirmed the advisory 
process was underway. I note that 10 days later WPS did issue a TVC to Mr S  which Ill 
consider as separate complaint point below  but which was a requirement of the overall 
analysis of the transfer.
 
So I dont think WPS had delayed anything up to that point. Several days later, on 
1 April 2020 Mr S asked WPS to suspend its analysis while he dealt with a separate issue 
about the validity of the CETV hed received from the trustees. Mr S lifted this suspension in 
an email to WPS on 20 April 2020 at which point the analysis resumed and the report was 
drafted. The report was subsequently provided to Mr S on 18 May 2020 which meant it took less than 
one month to complete following Mr Ss instruction for the process to resume. Considering 
the complex nature of compiling a report for the transfer of OPS benefits  especially as the 
default regulatory position is not to transfer without compelling reasons to do so, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for WPS to take the time it did to complete its report and set out its 
recommendation. So I dont think WPS did delay matters and I havent seen any evidence to 
show that it made any guarantees to Mr S about when the report would be finalised. 
Ive seen that Mr S chased up WPS a number of times and I can understand his frustration 
at not receiving a response to his complaint of 6 May 2020 by the following day  as 
promised by WPS. But theres no evidence to support any suggestion of a delay to the 
process and Ive also taken into account that the CETV deadline had almost expired when 
Mr S first approached WPS for advice, so I dont think WPS caused Mr S to suffer any loss 
with regards to his CETV. I note it was Mr S himself that managed to gain an extension to 
the deadline by sending the trustees the necessary paperwork. 
But Ive also gone on to look at the suitability of WPSs recommendation. The advice report 
that Ive seen explained Mr S was expecting to downsize his property and release around 
£1 million of equity, which when added to his existing saving and investments, meant he 
didnt want to receive any further income from his pension, as this would have increased his 
inheritance tax liability. So he wanted to keep the funds invested into a more tax efficient 
vehicle for his beneficiaries and he expected to be able to fund his lifestyle from his current 
income. 
Because Mr S wasnt reliant on the pension income a moderately adventurous ATR was 
agreed  although Mr S asked WPS to change the definition of the ATR to ensure it meant 
he could only accept moderate losses. Theres no suggestion this ATR was disputed, 
although as Mr S ended up implementing his own investment strategy I cant say that WPS 
was responsible for investing his funds and therefore I cant offer say whether it was in line 
with the ATR  but Ive taken into account that Mr S hasnt referred to any investment losses 
in his complaint.
I know the regulators position here is that, When advising a customer who is, or is eligible 
to be, an active member of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme whether he 
should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests. 
But, considering the circumstances at the time, I am satisfied that WPS has demonstrated 
the transfer was in Mr Ss best interest. WPS issued Mr S with a TVC which said that he 
would be over £39,000 worse off when comparing the income he could receive from the 
scheme against the benefits from the new SIPP. It drew Mr Ss attention to the risks of 
transferring away from the OPS and confirmed that he would be giving away guaranteed 
benefits. 
But it also explained that Mr S wasnt concerned with receiving a higher income because he 
didnt intend to draw any  which he would have been obliged to do at some point with his 
OPS benefits.
So WPSs recommendation was on the basis that Mr S wouldnt be better off by transferring 
on a like for like income basis  but that the most important factor for him was to preserve a separate fund, using the benefits from the OPS, invested in a tax efficient manner and in a 
way that might reduce his inheritance tax liability. Mr S had already confirmed that he didnt 
intend to use his OPS benefits. 
Ive concluded therefore that I dont think WPSs advice was unsuitable or not in Mr Ss best 
interests, so Ive gone on to look at the other complaint points Mr S raised. 
The fees
The original letter Mr S received from WPS explained that his employer would meet 50% of 
its £500 fee. A subsequent letter dated 13 January 2020, which enclosed a general client 
and fee agreement, said that Mr S would need to pay £250 plus VAT  which represented 
the balance of WPSs fee. This was the agreement that Mr S signed and returned to WPS 
dated 2 March 2020. And the final invoice that WPS prepared dated 27 May 2020 was also 
clear the cost was £250 plus £50 VAT at 20%. So I think WPS was consistent in asking 
Mr S to pay the same fee that it had first explained to him in the January letter and client 
agreement.
 
Ive therefore carefully considered the general client agreement which was issued by WPS 
with the 13 January letter and was signed by Mr S and returned to WPS on 4 March 2020. It 
confirmed the agreement was only in relation to partly funded retirement advice around 
Mr Ss OPS benefits. The key points were that the fee we charge is fixed and doesnt 
change, irrespective of our advice to you and the choices you make and that for the 
avoidance of doubt, we are paid the same advice fee whether you transfer or stay in the 
plan.
A further box of the service and description & charges agreed, stated that retirement 
planning in relation to reviewing the pension fund including undertaking full pension and 
transfer analysis and providing and implementing recommendations, was to be 50% funded 
by Mr S and 50% by the scheme at £250 each  giving an overall total of £500. It also 
confirmed that VAT may be applied in certain circumstances. 
WPS has said that the position with charging VAT wasnt known until it became more aware 
of Mr Ss circumstances  which it simply didnt know when it sent out the January 2020 
letters. So I dont think that was misleading as WPS didnt know if VAT was payable at that 
time. But I can see Mr Ss point that at various times throughout the process the position with 
VAT wasnt always clear. The confirmation in the suitability report was for advice costs of 
£250.00 and a policy implementation cost of £125.00 giving a total cost to you of £375.00. 
with no reference to VAT. While the adviser referred to arranging an invoice for the £250 fee 
within his email of 26 May 2020. 
But on the other hand, when Mr S asked WPS to resume its advice process in his email of 
21 April 2020 he said that it was, on the understanding there are no additional charges to 
the original £250 + vat, please continue to issue your report at the earliest opportunity. So, it 
could be argued that Mr S himself was aware that VAT was due on his advice charge. In my 
view its likely that the adviser simply forgot to include the VAT payment when he 
communicated with Mr S  after all it was also the adviser who was responsible for 
formulating the advice report. 
But I think the general client agreement within the initial January 2020 letter, and the final 
invoice are the documents that are clearest about the position regarding the advice charge. I 
think those documents, which are in line with each other, should be considered as the best 
representation of the fees due. 
Mr S said that an additional payment of £125, requested by WPS, was in breach of the 
original invoice. While WPS said this was a payment in relation to the implementation of its recommended investment strategy but as Mr S decided to manage the transfer himself, as 
well as the investment strategy, the additional £125 didnt become payable. But even if I 
werent to accept WPSs explanation, Im satisfied that, while the £125 was mentioned on 
one or two occasions in various documents, it wasnt part of the final invoice and hasnt been 
included as part of the overall costs. 
 
Mr S also says that the overall total cost WPS set out was misleading and he says that it 
didnt make him aware of the costs involved within the initial two hour telephone consultation 
they had. Mr S provided a link to various transcripts from the regulator which set out a firms 
requirements when undertaking such transfers. With regards to fees the regulator said 
Financial advisers have to tell you upfront how much their services will cost in pounds and 
pence. This means that you will know how much the advice will cost you before any work 
takes place. And it gives you the opportunity to decide if the services are affordable to you.
But I think WPS was clear in its letter of January 2020  and its general client agreement  
that as long as Mr S didnt require further services from WPS, which included accepting the 
implementation of its recommended investment strategy, then the fee due to Mr S would 
only be £250 (plus VAT). So I dont think its fair to say that Mr S wasnt made aware of the 
charges, and, as this document was issued to Mr S when he made his first inquiry to WPS in 
January 2020, I dont think its reasonable to say he wasnt made aware when he first spoke 
with WPS. 
Mr S says it was a regulatory requirement for the adviser to have made him aware of the 
charges during the first advisory conversation on the phone  but Im not aware of such 
regulation. In my view WPS did make Mr S aware of the charges involved at the beginning of 
the process and Ive seen nothing to support the claim that it didnt make him aware or that 
the charges were misleading. 
Ultimately the final invoice charge that WPS prepared in May 2020, following the transfer, 
was the same as was set out in the January 2020 letter. I think WPS did set out what its 
charge would be and carried out the services it said it would in respect of that charge  so I 
dont think it did anything wrong in relation to its charges. I havent seen any evidence to 
support the idea that there are any grounds for me to tell WPS to refund the fee it charged 
Mr S. 
GDPR breach
Mr S has suggested that WPS breached GDPR on a number of occasions during the 
transfer process. He gave details of two events but hasnt provided any evidence of anything 
further. The first issue was that the trustees provided WPS with his CETV information before 
hed had chance to speak to WPS and confirm it as his adviser. In this case I dont think any 
potential breach relates to WPS as the information was provided by the OPS trustees. 
The second matter was in respect of WPSs request for Mr S to validate his email address 
when he indicated he would prefer to receive information through that medium. Mr S said the 
need to provide his national insurance number by return for validation was disproportionate 
and extremely unreasonable. 
I should say that the question of whether data protection law hasnt been complied with is a 
matter for The Information Commissioners Office (ICO), and Mr S should contact that office 
if he wishes to take his complaint that WPS breached GDPR further. But we can consider 
any ancillary activity that occurred as a result of a possible breach and look into the impact 
this may have had on Mr S at the time. 
Based on the evidence Ive been presented with, it would seem that WPS simply asked Mr S 
to provide his national insurance number by return in order to validate his email address so that it could be used to send him relevant information as he requested. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that this information was given to other parties or used for any other 
reason other to validate the email address, and theres no suggestion of any financial loss or 
administration issue as a result of the request. 
So while Mr S is free to contact the ICO with regards to whether or not a breach occurred, I 
havent seen any evidence to support the claim that such a potential breach led to any 
issues with Mr Ss information being used by other parties or for any purpose other than the 
intended need. So I cant reasonably say that it had an impact on Mr S during the transfer 
process. 
The section 48 certificate 
Mr S said that WPSs refusal to issue him with a completed CAF caused delay to the 
process and put undue stress upon him to make a decision about the transfer before the 
CETV deadline expired. But the CAF wasnt a regulatory requirement in itself  simply a form 
used by the trustees to satisfy the requirement that Mr S received financial advice as the 
CETV was greater than £30,000. 
So I think it was reasonable for WPS and the trustees to have an agreement for WPS to use 
its own section 48 certificate  which it says it has used with other trustees and thinks is a 
quicker way to progress transfers. But, even if I am wrong in my conclusion about the CAF, 
WPS sent the certificate to the trustees on 26 May 2020, the same day the matter was 
raised by Mr S following the telephone conversation to discuss the suitability report. And the 
certificate was accepted by the trustees without any problem.
The submission of the certificate, or indeed the CAF, was needed to confirm that advice had 
been given and in my view didnt have any bearing on whether Mr S accepted WPSs 
recommendation to transfer, which would have been driven by the suitability report.   
So as the matter of the CAF was resolved the same day, I dont think Mr S would have been 
inconvenienced by any delay or be in a position whereby he wasnt able to make informed 
decisions and complete/comply with the onerous responsibilities as unequivocally placed on 
me by the terms and conditions with the quotation of December 2019.   
Ive also taken into account that this was five months after the CETV was first issued and a 
couple of months after the deadline first expired when Mr S was able to ask for an extension 
to the deadline. So I dont think its fair to say that WPS denied him the opportunity to make 
an informed decision before the deadline passed. 
I do think that, having agreed an alternative way to confirm it had given advice to Mr S with 
the trustees, it might have been better practice for WPS to have told Mr S this in advance of 
the CETV deadline approaching. Mr S has referred to the statement within the CAF which 
said, failure to correctly complete and sign this form will prevent payment of the members 
transfer valued  so I can understand why he might have seen any delay or obfuscation in 
signing the CAF to be of serious consequence to him. 
But I dont think it would have affected his ability to make a decision on what to do and, while 
I think WPS might have been clearer in explaining its change of position, I dont think it did 
anything wrong relating to this matter.  
The TVC
Mr S says that WPS failed to make him aware of the unexpected TVC report it sent him at 
the end of March 2020, and that it was severely misleading and certainly not true as it 
contained incorrect information such as the partners personal details that were included in 
the report when he didnt have a partner. He says this made the outcome of the TVC irrelevant but was concerned that WPS might base its recommendation on such incorrect 
information. 
WPS says its adviser did make Mr S aware of the need to calculate the TVC before 
proceeding with its recommendation, but in case it needed to complete a TVC as part of its 
overall analysis of the transfer. I cant confirm whether the matter was discussed during the 
telephone conversation, but I have looked at the regulators guidelines, through its Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS), from that time. 
COBS 19.1.1C said that:
(1) A firm must make a personal recommendation when it provides advice on conversion or 
transfer of pension benefits.
(2) Before making the personal recommendation the firm must:
..  (b) carry out the appropriate pension transfer analysis and produce the transfer value 
comparator.
(3) The requirement in (2)(b) does not apply if the only safeguarded benefit involved is 
a guaranteed annuity rate.
(4) The firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that the retail client understands how the 
key outcomes from the appropriate pension transfer analysis and the transfer value 
comparator contribute towards the personal recommendation.
I think the regulation was clear and WPS was obliged to complete a TVC, even if Mr S 
doesnt recall being told about in advance. And having completed the TVC  using a 
specialist firm agreed with the OPS to carry out the calculation, WPS needed to prepare a 
transfer value comparator, a firm must compare the transfer value offered by the ceding 
arrangement with the estimated value needed today to purchase the future income benefits 
available under the ceding arrangement using a pension annuity (calculated in accordance 
with COBS 19 Annex 4B and COBS 19 Annex 4C).
So, in order to comply with the guidelines in the preparation of an appropriate TVC, WPS 
needed to provide a comparison taking into account the spouses benefit the OPS would 
have provided  regardless of Mr Ss personal situation. I can understand Mr Ss frustration 
when he saw the TVC including details of a spouse which he knew didnt apply to him, but 
that assumptive information needed to be included to ensure the TVC was correct. 
I think WPS could have potentially positioned that information better at the time it provided 
the TVC to Mr S, but that doesnt mean it did anything wrong or that it shouldnt have issued 
the TVC  as it formed an important part of the overall analysis.
Mr S says the TVC had no value because it included incorrect marital assumptions. But I 
think WPS did signpost that the TVC wasnt the main factor on which it had based its 
recommendation and that there were other more important drivers at work here on which to 
base the recommendation to transfer. 
Summary
Ultimately, I think that WPS provided a suitable recommendation for Mr Ss circumstances at 
the time and fulfilled its regulatory requirements under section 48 of the Pension Schemes 
Act 2015. I cant find any evidence to support the claim that a possible breach of GDPR 
caused Mr S any undue distress or inconvenience and Im satisfied that WPS made Mr S 
aware of its charges at the beginning of the process and that its final invoice reflected the 
charge it said it was going to make at the beginning.
 And I havent found any evidence to support the idea that either the issuing of a TVC, or the 
completion of a section 48 certificate instead the CAF, delayed the process or made it more 
difficult for Mr S to make an informed decision over the course of action he wanted to take or 
to fulfil his requirements to the scheme trustees. Theres no suggestion here that 
Mr S suffered any financial loss because the value of the CETV fell during the process, and 
although WPS could have been slightly clearer over one or two matters I dont think this 
warrants the award of any compensatory payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman