DRN-3793370
The complaint
Mr A complains about the replacement dishwasher provided by Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc (D&G) under his appliance insurance protection policy.
What happened
Mr A had appliance insurance for his integrated dishwasher with D&G. The dishwasher 
developed a fault and D&G decided that it couldnt be economically repaired. D&G offered 
Mr A a choice of replacements and he ordered one via D&Gs online ordering service. Mr A 
says there was a paucity of information included about the three dishwashers he was 
offered. He says only one was made by the same manufacturer as his previous model, and 
so he chose that one so it would be equivalent. Mr A says D&G alleged the dishwashers 
were of an equivalent standard and specification as per D&Gs stated policy of equivalency 
of replacement.
After Mr A had used the dishwasher for a short while, he complained to D&G setting out 
where he believed it wasnt an equivalent model. D&G said the replacement dishwasher was 
one which Mr A both chosen and had begun using. D&G said that because the dishwasher 
had been used it could no longer consider exchanging it.
Mr A wasnt happy with D&Gs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint, saying D&G had offered a replacement in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of Mr As policy.  
Mr A wasnt happy with what the investigator said, so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr A wants D&G to remove the old machine and fit what he says is the correct equivalent 
machine as advised by the manufacturer.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint to this service Mr A said:
They claim (see their letter and my response) that as I had used the machine I could not 
complain. However since the deficiencies relative to the original insured machine were not 
immediately apparent until it was used, and I was entitled to rely on their warranty that it was 
an equivalent machine - I do not feel that is a valid reason to reject my complaint.
Mr As policy terms and conditions from D&G said:
What this policy covers
Breakdown
If your product suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of the 
manufacturer's parts and labour guarantee period, we will either authorise a repair by our 
approved repairer, arrange a replacement or (at our option) pay the cost of a replacement 
product.
And:
Replacements
1. We will always (subject to the terms and conditions of this policy) repair your product, 
unless we cannot repair it; we cannot obtain the spare parts to repair it; or we can replace it 
for less than the cost of the repair. In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your 
product with a product of a same or similar make and technical specification, subject to 
these terms and conditions.
D&G told our investigator it had supplied the same brand appliance with similar specification 
in line with these terms. D&G said it doesnt cover features of the appliance as these can 
change with the manufacturer changing their ranges and it cant control these changes. 
D&G offered Mr A a choice of replacement dishwashers on a link via SMS and email. D&G 
have provided this service with an example of the link Mr A would have been sent. D&G said 
it couldnt provide the actual link sent to Mr A as it works from a live system dependent on 
stock availability and once the link is used it is no longer active or viewable. 
The example link invites the policyholder to select a similar model. The link also advises:
Sometimes we cant offer a replacement thats an exact match of your current appliance. 
This may be due to a lack of availability or model discontinuation. However, youll always be 
offered a model with the same or similar specifications as your current one.
The link also contains information about how to contact D&G on the live chat function on its 
website.
Mr A called D&G and confirmed that he had received the link and was about to order one of 
the dishwashers offered. Ive listened to a recording of this call and Mr A queried the cover 
plan but didnt ask anything about the dishwasher or its specification.
Mr A says the replacement dishwasher is a few centimetres smaller than the previous 
model, so it doesnt fit properly in the integrated space. He says it is significantly smaller 
inside so taller items dont fit. He also says it has no knock to open door feature, no internal 
LED light, and has a different configuration of crockery trays inside. I think if particular 
features were very important to Mr A it was open to him to check the specification.
I have seen the details of the replacement dishwasher. On balance I do think it was of a 
similar make and technical specification to the previous appliance, as set out in the terms 
and conditions of Mr As policy.
So I think that D&G have acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr As complaint. So I wont be asking Domestic 
& General Insurance Plc to do anything. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman