DRN-3003916
The complaint
Mr N complained that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans provided him with a 
loan which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Buddy Loans provided Mr N with a loan as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Typical 
monthly 
repaymentAPR
1 August 
2017£5,000 60
months£197.62 49.9%
Mr N complained to Buddy Loans that this loan was unaffordable for him and that when it 
was approved the lender had overlooked his credit history, which showed a number of late 
payments and defaults, reflecting the fact that he struggled to maintain payments. Buddy 
Loans didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said reasonable and proportionate checks were 
carried out demonstrating that the loan was sustainably affordable for him. So Mr N brought 
his complaint to us. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr N would like a refund of all interest paid  he said he has 
already paid the amount he originally borrowed. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and thought that Buddy Loans didnt do enough to 
show that Mr N would have been able to repay this loan in an affordable and sustainable 
way. So he recommended upholding the complaint and set out what Buddy Loans needed to 
do to put things right. 
Buddy Loans disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that during the application 
process its checks included full credit searches of both borrower and guarantor, a bank 
check, income verification and an affordability check using statistical data as well as 
information gathered from the borrower. Buddy Loans also allowed a £50-£100 buffer to 
cover any additional emergency spending. 
So it didnt agree that the loan wasnt affordable and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ns case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ns loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did Buddy Loans then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
I agree with Buddy Loans that, broadly speaking, its fair to say that it carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ns loan application. 
I say this because I think it gathered enough information to gain a fairly detailed 
understanding of his financial situation. Buddy Loans asked Mr N about his income and 
expenditure. Buddy Loans took steps to check Mr Ns income and was satisfied that it could 
rely on him receiving monthly take home pay of around £1,600. After doing its own checks 
and allowing for the amount Mr  N would be spending on this loan and his other credit, as 
well as his other regular monthly outgoings, plus a contingency of £50 for unexpected costs, Buddy Loans worked out that Mr N should still have disposable income of approximately 
£820. 
Like the investigator, I dont think Buddy Loans made a fair lending decision when it lent 
to Mr N based on the information it had gathered.
When I look through the credit search Buddy Loans carried out when Mr N applied for this 
loan, I can see that it shows Mr N was already having serious problems managing his 
finances. Buddy Loans saw that Mr N had four recent defaults (all within the previous 12 
months or so). Two of those defaults were on credit card accounts and the other defaulted 
accounts were both unsecured loans. The combined balances owing on those defaulted 
accounts came to more than £1,100.
As well as this, his credit history showed another credit card and mail order account were 
delinquent  in other words, payments hadnt been made in full and on time. The credit card 
account was more than £200 over the card limit of £1,500 and the mail order account was 
close to its £200 limit. Mr N also had a credit card account and a mail order account both 
around their limit  and the report summary indicated that overall Mr Ns didnt have any 
available unused credit. He had no savings. From looking at its credit checks Buddy Loans 
could also see that Mr N had taken out two high cost unsecured loans just the month before 
(total £950) as well as other recent credit accounts in the months running up to Mr N 
applying to Buddy Loans for this loan. And over the longer term, his credit report showed a 
long established reliance on short term lending with Mr N repeatedly borrowing and repaying 
short term loans over at least the last 2-3 years.
In total, Mr Ns existing credit balance (not counting this loan from Buddy Loans) was 
£8,592  which I think was already a significant amount of money for Mr N given his 
apparent money problems and the financial difficulty that Buddy Loans could see he 
was experiencing.
I dont think Buddy Loans thought carefully enough about what this credit history showed 
about Mr Ns overall financial situation. 
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Mr N wasnt managing to 
repay his debt and he was having serious problems managing his finances whilst at the 
same time he appeared to be relying on new credit more recently obtained. I think Buddy 
Loans saw enough information to have realised that Mr Ns loan application reflected his 
reliance on this sort of expensive credit and it was unlikely that Mr N could repay further 
credit sustainably without experiencing more adverse consequences. So its lending decision 
wasnt fair.
I dont think the fact alone that this expensive loan was taken out to repay other expensive 
credit means it was fairly provided. The total amount payable under this loan agreement was 
£11,894.67 if it ran to term. Overall, I dont think Buddy Loans could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr N wouldnt put him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall debts and tying him into a high cost credit deal that he had signed up 
to pay for the next five years. 
Buddy Loans didnt oversee the settlement of other credit. Given Mr Ns recent borrowing, 
and from what Buddy Loans saw from his credit history, there was a real risk that Mr N might 
use this loan to help him meet his immediate need to make loan repayments with the result 
this loan would simply add to his existing debt. 
So I dont think Buddy Loans shouldve provided this loan. As Mr N has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Buddy Loans did wrong. So, I think Buddy Loans needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr N has confirmed he agrees with what I've said in my provisional decision.
I havent heard anything further from Buddy Loans and the deadline for responses has now 
passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr N for responding to my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think Buddy Loans acted unfairly towards Mr N in 
any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr N to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that should not have been provided to him. In 
line with this Services approach, Mr N shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. With this in mind, Buddy Loans should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr N received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr N made should be deducted from this amount
 
if this results in Mr N having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr N bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ns credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint and require Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman