DRN-1652976
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold to Mr and Mrs B in 1999, in connection with a joint 
mortgage. The policy was amended when Mr and Mrs B took out a further advance in 2002. 
The policy provided cover for Mr B if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-    If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs?
-    Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs B the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs B say they were put under pressure to buy the policy, and that Lloyds didnt give 
them a proper choice. They say Lloyds told them they had to take the PPI to get the 
borrowing they wanted.
Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs B have said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure 
exactly what was discussed between Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds when the policy was sold in 1999 and amended in 2002. Im also mindful that the sales took place many years ago, and 
that precise recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold and amended. 
Thats not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen. 
But I note that Mr and Mrs B had to fill in application forms for the PPI that were separate to 
their mortgage and further advance applications. So I think they would've known that the PPI 
was separate to their borrowing, and not a condition of arranging the loans.
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs B have told me, I don't think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Lloyds didnt make them aware that the policy was optional. 
Lloyds accepts that it probably advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy in 1999 and it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time. I say this because:
Mr B was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
Mr B says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Bs 
employer sick pay and would do so, it seems for longer. Having the policy in place 
wouldve meant Mr and Mrs B could use Mr B's employer benefits to pay for other 
expenses. Mr B has also told me he thinks he was paying towards an income 
protection policy, so he didn't need the PPI. Mr B hasn't been able to provide any 
details about the benefits paid from the policy he says he had. So I can't safely say 
that the PPI would've duplicated the benefits he says he was entitled to. Overall, I 
think Mr and Mrs B would have had some use for the policy, despite their existing 
arrangements.
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs B needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
I cant be sure that the policys cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs B before they 
agreed to buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided.
 
Mr and Mrs B took out a further advance in 2002. Ive seen the application they filled out to 
buy some additional PPI to cover their extra borrowing. 
Looking at the paperwork they signed to increase their cover, I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs B wanted the PPI benefits to cover all the borrowing on their mortgage account. 
And I can understand why. As far as I can see their circumstances were broadly the same 
whilst they were increasing their mortgage borrowing.  
Mr B has mentioned that he had some health issues during the time the PPI was in force, 
but he hasn't been able to confirm whether he was suffering from them at the time the PPI 
was amended. 
So I don't think I can safely say he wouldn't have been able to make a successful claim on 
the policy in connection with the condition he suffers from. Overall, I think the additional PPI gave Mr and Mrs B the security and peace of mind that 
their mortgage monthly repayments were protected if things went wrong. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was reasonably priced. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy.
So I dont find Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds mightve done 
wrong when it sold them the PPI.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman