DRN-3117875
The complaint
Miss Q has complained about the sale of her Life and Serious Illness policy by Vitality Life
Limited in September 2016.
What happened
Miss Q got a quote online for a Life and Serious Illness policy via Vitalitys website. She then
called Vitality in September 2016, as she was interested in taking out the policy. The sales
agent she spoke to explained she could offer an advised service, where she would carry out
an assessment of Miss Qs demands and needs and make a recommendation. Or a non-
advised service, where she would just establish what Miss Q wanted and offer her a policy
based on this. Miss Q opted for the non-advised service. She mentioned shed got a quote of
about £40 per month online for a sum insured of around £160,000.
The agent explained she couldnt use the quote Miss Q had done online and that she would
need to take her details and provide a quote. She asked Miss Q whether she wanted an
Essentials Plan or a Vitality Life Plan and explained the key differences between the two and
that the Vitality Life Plan was more expensive.
Miss Q opted for the Essentials Plan. The agent then asked Miss Q whether she wanted
Primary Cover or Comprehensive Cover. The agent explained that the Comprehensive
Cover covered more illnesses. And then said specifically there were 174 illnesses covered
under the Comprehensive Cover, whereas under the Primary Cover there were 114 covered.
Miss Q asked for the cost of each cover. The agent told her Primary Cover was £40.11 per
month and Comprehensive Cover was £47.68 per month. Miss Q opted for Primary Cover.
The agent then asked Miss Q if she wanted the Serious Illness Cover Booster option. And
she explained this meant Vitality would pay out 100% of the sum insured more often. And
that sometimes it would pay out 200% of the sum insured. Miss Q asked how much extra
this would be and was told it would cost an extra £6.80 per month. She asked if she could
drop the sum insured and pay around £40 per month with the Cover Booster. And the agent
checked and said if she dropped the sum insured to £140,000, Primary Cover with the
Serious Illness Cover Booster option would cost £40.72 per month. Miss Q agreed to go with
this option. The agent then went through numerous lifestyle and health questions with Miss
Q and  having done so - offered the policy on this basis. And Miss Q agreed to go ahead
with it.
Miss Q was diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in 2017 and made a claim
under the policy. Vitality refused the claim on the basis Miss Q didnt meet the requirements
for a pay-out under Severity level D under her policy. This was because to qualify for a pay-
out under this Severity level Miss Q needed a definite diagnosis of SLE and an inability to
perform at least one of the functional activity tests listed in the policy. Miss Q had a definite
diagnosis, but Vitality said she could perform all the functional activity tests. And because
Miss Q only has Primary Cover she only qualifies for a pay-out, if she has SLE at Severity
levels A to D. If she had Comprehensive Cover, she would have qualified for a pay-out at
Severity levels E-G, which are lower severity levels. 
Miss Q has made two separate complaints to us about her claim and shes had a final 
decision from myself on her more recent case and from another ombudsman on her 
previous case.
One of our investigators also considered this complaint about the sale of the policy and
initially suggested it should be upheld. Vitality didnt agree with his suggestion. But, Miss Q
agreed to put this complaint on hold and it was eventually closed, so she could pursue her
complaints about the refusal of the claim.
Miss Q recently asked us to re-open this complaint about the sale of her policy. She thinks
that the difference between Comprehensive and Primary Cover and how the Serious Illness
Cover Booster option worked wasnt explained properly to her. And she has said if it had
been shed have purchased a plan providing Comprehensive cover.
We agreed to re-open the complaint and the investigator issued a new assessment on it. In
this he said he didnt think the policy had been mis-sold to Miss Q, as the agent had
adequately explained the difference between Comprehensive and Primary Cover and how
the Serious Illness Cover Booster option worked. He also later said that he didnt think Miss
Q would have opted for Comprehensive Cover if she had understood more about how it
worked, as she had a budget of about £40 a month and Comprehensive Cover was £47.68
per month without the Serious Illness Cover Booster option.
Miss Q didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans
decision. I issued a provisional decision on 6 October 2021 and I provisionally decided the 
following:
The sales agent gave Miss Q the option to have a full review and recommendation, but Miss
Q decided against this. This means the policy was provided to Miss Q on a non-advised
basis. The contract was concluded over the telephone. And the rules covering the sale of
insurance policies in 2016 (The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS)),
describe this as a distance contract. And the policy is what ICOBS describes as a
Protection Policy.
This meant Vitality had to get Miss Qs explicit consent to receiving limited information over
the telephone. And the sales agent also needed to make sure she didnt provide information
over the telephone on some of the main characteristics of the policy and not others. It did,
however, mean that Vitality was able to provide a policy summary in a reasonable time after
Miss Q agree to go ahead with the policy over the telephone. And Vitalitys main
responsibility was to provide Miss Q with enough information about the policy in a clear fair a
not misleading way, so she could make an informed decision.
Ive listened to a recording of the telephone conversation between the sales agent and Miss
Q. And, whilst the agent did mention she would be providing limited information, she did not
gain Miss Qs explicit consent to being provided with this. And I think the sales agent should
have explained to Miss Q in more detail the difference between Primary and Comprehensive
Cover. I say this because she didnt mention the fact that the Comprehensive Cover means
a pay-out for some illnesses at lower severity levels and instead focused on the fact it
covered more illnesses. I think her explanation of the Serious Illness Cover Booster was
adequate, but this doesnt mean she provided enough information overall to enable Miss Q
to make a fully informed decision over the telephone.
However, Im not persuaded that if the sales agent had gone into more detail on the
difference between Primary and Comprehensive Cover, Miss Q would have opted for the
Comprehensive Cover. I say this because Miss Q clearly had a budget of around £40 per
month and was only willing to commit to paying this amount. This is demonstrated by the factthat she dropped the sum insured to get Primary Cover with the Serious Illness Cover
Booster at about £40 per month, rather than paying an extra £6.80 per month to get this with
the sum insured she had gone for originally. And I think its unlikely Miss Q would ever have
opted for Comprehensive Cover without the Serious Illness Cover Booster option, as it
seems she was most concerned about getting a pay-out of the full sum insured in the event
of a claim for the conditions actually covered. And, even at a sum insured of £140,000, it
seems Comprehensive Cover with the Booster would have cost closer to £50 per month,
which Miss Q would not have been willing to pay.
I appreciate Miss Q could have dropped the sum insured further, but shed already dropped
it by over £20,000 and I dont think shed have been willing to go further than this to get
Comprehensive Cover with the Cover Booster, as the level of cover also seems to have
been a significant consideration for her. And shed started the quotation process with a sum
insured in mind of over £160,000. And when she did get more detail on the difference
between Primary and Comprehensive Cover after agreeing to go ahead with the policy, by
way of a plan summary, she stuck with it as opposed to contacting Vitality to ask about
dropping the sum insured further so she could have Comprehensive Cover.
And I think its worth mentioning here for the sake of completeness that if Miss Q had gone
for Comprehensive Cover without the Cover Booster, it would have meant that for a definite
diagnosis of SLE, with no impairments as outlined in the policy, Miss Q would have only got
10% of the £140,000 sum insured, ie £14,000. Shed have also only got 25% of the sum
insured with this diagnosis and an inability to perform one of the functional activity tests.
Whereas with the Cover Booster she would get 100% of the sum insured if she had a
definite diagnosis and an inability to perform one of these tests.
So  in summary I think if the agent had gone into more detail on the difference between
Comprehensive and Primary Cover as she should have done, Miss Q would still have ended
up taking out the policy on the same basis as she did with the agents more limited
explanation.
Im also mindful of the fact that before even speaking to Vitalitys sales agent, Miss Q had
the opportunity to view a lot of information about the Serious Illness Cover available on
Vitalitys website.
Vitality has not been able to provide copies of the web pages Miss Q would have been able
to see before she spoke to its agent on the phone, but it has provided sales literature, which
it has said matches what was available for Miss Q to view online. And Im satisfied from what
Vitality has said that Miss Q would have had access to this information. This included a
leaflet explaining Serious Illness Cover. This leaflet explains that Serious Illness Cover
provides a pay-out following a claim for a serious illness based on the severity of the
condition. It also explains that Primary Cover covers over 100 conditions and
Comprehensive Cover covers over 170. The leaflet also explains that the Serious Illness
Cover Booster is an optional extra, which means that for some long-term conditions Vitality
will pay between 100 and 200% of the cover amount.
There was also an information sheet that Im satisfied would have been available to Miss Q
online. In my opinion, this clearly explains that with Comprehensive Serious Illness Cover all
the Severity levels A to G apply, whereas with Primary Cover only levels A to D apply. And I
think from this it is clear that if someone wants cover where they will receive a pay-out at an
earlier stage of their illness they would need to have Comprehensive Cover.
So, while Vitalitys sales agent could and should have done a better job, in deciding the fair
and reasonable outcome to this complaint, I do have to take into account the fact that Miss Q
also had the opportunity to see information about the policy before even speaking to theagent. And I dont think it is appropriate for me to ignore this and look at what happened in
the sales call in isolation. This is because the fact Miss Q had or could have viewed
information online also would have played a part in putting her in a position to make a fully
informed decision.
I am also mindful of the fact - as Ive already mentioned - that Miss Q was provided with a
Plan Summary after shed agreed to go ahead with the policy, which also explained how the
Severity levels for Primary and Comprehensive Cover worked in practice. Miss Q didnt
query the extent of the cover when she got this, which suggests she was happy with the
policy on the basis it had been set up. And it also adds weight to the view that she was put in
a position to make a fully informed decision overall. I appreciate Miss Q may not have
realised the full implications of what would happen if she got a progressive illness like SLE,
but this wouldnt have been a major consideration for her at this point, as she had no idea
this was the type of illness she was going to end up getting.
This all means that, despite my natural sympathy for Miss Qs position, I dont think its
appropriate for me to uphold her complaint about the sale of the policy by Vitality. 
I gave both parties until 20 October to respond to my provisional decision. Vitality has 
responded to say it has nothing further to add. Miss Q has responded, and from what shes 
said, I can see that she doesnt agree with what Ive provisionally decided. 
Miss Q has said that she would not have gone for a booster that pays out on diagnosis alone 
had she known it had terms and conditions. She has further explained that she didnt 
understand insurance terminology and  due to the complex nature of the Vitality policy -  
anyone would struggle to understand it, unless they were an insurance specialist. She has 
added that the policy document was the thickness of a large book and she thought as 
mentioned on the telephone that the only difference between Comprehensive and Primary 
Cover was that Comprehensive Cover covered more illnesses. And she feels it should have 
been explained to her that the Serious Illness Booster Cover didnt cover all illness and paid 
out on diagnosis alone. 
Ms Q also feels the policy is severely unfair for people suffering with systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE). She thinks the policy wording makes it impossible for the policyholder 
to receive a pay-out for it, as SLE is known for being intermittent, but the wording requires 
the symptoms and effects to be permanent.   
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Vitalitys sales agent should have done a 
better job of explaining the difference between Primary and Comprehensive Cover. But she 
did at least explain that Comprehensive Cover covers more illnesses, which is correct. And 
she also explained that the Serious Illness Cover Booster meant a pay-out of the full sum 
insured more often. She didnt say that the Serious Illness Booster Cover covered all 
illnesses and paid out on diagnosis alone. I appreciate Miss Q may have thought this is what 
the Serious Illness Cover Booster did, but I dont think this was because of anything the 
sales agent said. And I dont think it was because of the Plan Summary provided to Miss Q 
after she decided to go ahead with the policy or the information available for her to read 
online. 
So, I still think the sales agents explanation of the Serious Illness Cover Booster was 
adequate. She should also have explained the Comprehensive Cover meant a pay-out at lower severity levels for some illnesses, as well as covering more illnesses overall. But I 
dont think this would have altered Miss Qs decision to opt for the Primary Cover with the 
Serious Illness Cover Booster, as this fitted with her budget for the cover she wanted. And it 
did provide cover for over 100 illnesses and a pay-out of the full sum insured more often. 
And Miss Q was clearly concerned about receiving a pay-out of the full sum insured. And, if 
Miss Q did meet the requirements for a claim under the Primary Cover for SLE at the lowest 
level (Level D) she would receive the full sum insured. 
I appreciate Miss Q doesnt feel its going to be possible for her to meet the criteria for a valid 
claim. But I think it is possible she will at some point and further medical evidence from a 
treating doctor or a further Independent Medical Examination could establish this.
In summary, I still think that, even if Vitalitys sales agent had fully explained the difference 
between Primary and Comprehensive Cover, Miss Q would still have gone ahead with the 
policy on the same basis. And  bearing this in mind  along with the fact that information 
sent after the sale and available for Miss Q to view on line did make the difference clear, I 
dont think it is appropriate for me to uphold her complaint about the mis-sale of the policy by 
Vitality.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Qs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman