DRN-3837000
The complaint
Mr D complains that Metro Bank PLC registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr D says he wasnt involved in any fraudulent activity on the account. And that the marker 
is affecting his ability to access financial products. He wants the marker to be removed.
Metro Bank said it wouldnt be removing the marker. A payment of £980 into Mr Ds account 
on 3 January 2018 had been reported as fraudulent. And a withdrawal of £950 in cash had 
been made within a couple of hours of receipt of the payment at one of its stores. It had 
written on 13 January 2018 to tell Mr D that his account was being closed in seven days.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He explained that there was 
a high bar for adding the CIFAS marker. Mr D had told him that he kept all the details about 
the account including the card and PIN in an envelope and carried this in his school bag. 
And Mr D believed that this was stolen and used to carry out fraud on the account. There 
was no record of Mr D informing Metro Bank that hed lost those details. And Mr D had told 
him that he hadnt become aware of having lost these until around a year after the account 
was closed. Our adjudicator didnt find this plausible as Metro Bank had notified Mr D of the 
closure. Our adjudicator also noted that Mr D had told him that a further credit to the account 
for £1,000 on 4 January 2018 had nothing to do with him. While two cash point withdrawals 
each for £300 had been quickly made the rest of the funds seemed to be used for everyday 
expenditure. And this wasnt a typical pattern for a fraudster who would be looking to access 
funds as quickly as possible. Mr D didnt have any evidence to support his version of events.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said in summary that hed 
had the account since he was 13. And because he was still a child didnt think anything of 
the envelope going missing. He also stated that in contrast to what our adjudicators noted 
there wasnt a defining moment when I realised I did not have the envelope. He went on to 
state it was more that I didnt know 100% where it was, but I also didnt know for certain that 
Id lost it. What I know now is the last time I remember having the envelope, it was in my 
schoolbag and I didnt come across it again. Once he had received the letter from Metro 
bank I assumed at the time it was because I was overdrawn and he said looking back at 
his statements hed been overdrawn by £10.61 for a number of months before the 
unrecognised transactions took place.
He said of the disputed payments that the withdrawal of £950 couldnt have happened at a 
cashpoint and as this happened in a branch this is where my disgust at Metros conduct 
lies. He asked how someone who didnt look like him be able to take out the money and 
said this is an internal failing that facilitated fraud. Of the £1,000 credit he said hed lived 
some distance from London all his life up to then and had never been unaccompanied to 
central London where withdrawals were made. He insisted he was at school on those days 
and could obtain information from the school registry to prove this. Mr D has now provided a 
letter from his previous school showing that from 4 January to 17 January 2018 hed been at 
school for morning and afternoon registration. 
Mr D said that CCTV would show this wasnt him withdrawing money and obviously not a 
schoolboy. He didnt think that there was evidence hed been complicit, and Metro Bank 
hadnt asked for his explanation at the time. That would have alerted him and overcome his 
own naivety at not contacting Metro Bank about the account closure.
His mother has also provided a supportive statement saying that when she saw the closure 
letter she should have gone into a branch. She said that the impact of the marker added 
when he was just 15 or so is extremely punitive. He has been asked to prove it wasnt him 
making the payments, but Metro Bank hasnt proved it was him especially given the size of 
the payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I appreciate that in 2018 it didnt ask Mr D about what happened, although it notified him of 
the closure of the account. And I weigh that in considering his evidence and what hes now 
reasonably able to provide.
I find his explanation about the loss of the envelope difficult to assess as he says there was 
no defining moment of this. He either had the envelope or he didnt and doesnt seem to 
know when it was lost or when he realised that. He also says that the closure of the 
account didnt prompt him to realise that at the time.
Ive looked at his statements and it isnt right that hed been overdrawn for several months 
before this payment. Notably it seems that both in July 2017 and as late as November 2017 
a person (I understand to be his mother) had been sending him small credits and hed been 
using his card to make payments. I find this more reason for him to realise when he didnt 
have that card even if it seems to be right that he was overdrawn by the end of December 
2017.
In my view its reasonable to think that a fraudster in possession of all the details needed to 
use his account would do so as quickly as possible with the risk of detection at any time. 
That seems to make it unlikely the envelope was taken from a school bag during term as 
the fraudulent payment didnt credit until 3 January 2018. And the next school term started on 4 January 2018  the day after this. In addition, there were no funds in his account so I 
think it would be unusual for an opportunistic thief to decide to use his details in this way. 
Im satisfied money obtained fraudulently had been paid into his account. The question of 
the withdrawal being allowed has been raised. Ive no further evidence as to whether this 
was by Mr D (which Metro must have thought) or someone else able to impersonate him. 
And who would it seems have had the envelope with all his details. I think it would be a 
bold move for a fraudster to go into a branch. And CCTV even if available wouldnt resolve 
whether any third party involved was acting with Mr Ds authority or not.
I consider the possibility of him allowing someone else to use his account and benefitting 
from this especially given his evidence about when he was at school from 4 January 2018. 
And because as our adjudicator has said the further credit of £1,000 wasnt this time 
withdrawn as quickly as possible and there seemed to be day to day spending after that. 
Mr D would be equally responsible though for what a person hed allowed to use his 
account did.
He was 15 at the time and his mother seemed to be aware then of the closure of this 
account. And neither of them did anything about that, enquired further or dealt with what 
they believed to be a small debt which could potentially in itself cause Mr D problems. Im 
unclear if a closing statement was received on the account which would have shown all this 
activity. The copy of statement sheet 35 for January 2018 provided by Metro Bank 
seemed to be correctly addressed to Mr D. Overall I think that there was a reasonable 
opportunity for them to make enquiries even given his age then. And Im not clear that 
theyd have had other significant evidence at that point thats disadvantaged them given the 
timing of my assessment nearly five years later.
Having balanced all these factors Im satisfied that the most likely explanation is that Mr D 
was complicit in what happened which as I say could have involved him allowing someone 
else to use his account.
Metro Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr D received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Metro Bank needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion.
 
Having reviewed Mr Ds account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Metro Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr D received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Metro Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.- Metro Bank had grounds to believe that Mr D had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
In light of this I think it had grounds to close his account under the terms and conditions. I 
appreciate what Mr Ds said about the impact of the marker for him, but I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require Metro Bank to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman