DRN-1096419
The complaint
Mrs G says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs G applied for a credit card in 2005, and at the same time PPI was added to the account. 
Mrs G thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. In particular, the 
adjudicator thought that Mrs G had never paid anything towards the policy.
Mrs G's representatives disagree. They say Mrs G was entitled to significant sick pay, and 
that if the cost and benefits of the policy, and its optional nature, had been made clear, 
Mrs G wouldn't have bought the policy. So they've asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman.
The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, I'd tell the business to put the consumer back in the financial position they'd be in if 
they hadn't bought the policy. 
According to Halifax's records, this policy started in December 2005 and ended in May 2007. 
Halifax has sent us statements for this entire period. This shows that Mrs G never used this 
card. The balance was zero for the whole period. As the cost of the PPI was based on the 
amount Mrs G owed each month, this means she was charged nothing for the PPI. It follows 
that even if I concluded that something went wrong when Halifax sold Mrs G the PPI, I 
wouldn't tell it to pay Mrs G anything.
I've considered what Mrs G said in response to the adjudicator. I appreciate she feels 
strongly that Halifax treated her unfairly when it sold her the policy. But as I've concluded 
she never paid anything towards this policy, this doesn't affect my conclusions. Mrs G hasn't 
lost out. It wouldn't be appropriate for me to make an award.
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold Mrs G's complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman