DRN-4041939
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HLAS) gave an 
unsuitable recommendation to invest part of her portfolio into the Wood Income Focus Fund 
(WIFF) and failed in its duty of care.
What happened
Following a meeting in February 2019 at which Mr M attended on Mrs Ms behalf, in March 
2019 HLAS provided investment advice to Mr and Mrs M. This decision concerns Mrs M 
only. 
HLAS recommended disposing of an existing stocks and shares ISA portfolio of £367,098 
held with a third party and investing the proceeds into a diverse portfolio of managed 
investment funds, of which 10.5% was in the WIFF. Upon investment, Mrs M moved to an 
execution only service with Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Service (HLAM). 
When the WIFF was removed from the Wealth 50 list, Mrs M received a notification. Mrs M 
sold her holdings in WIFF for a loss in June 2019.
Mrs M maintains that it was unsuitable to recommend investment in WIFF and HLAS failed 
in its duty of care. Mrs M seeks compensation for his losses.
HLAS say that the recommendation to move to a portfolio of managed investment funds was 
in line with Mrs Ms objectives. HLAS did not provide ongoing advice and Mrs M made the 
decision to sell her WIFF holdings. Mrs M was notified of the decision to remove WIFF from 
the Wealth 50 (a best buy list of investment funds published by HLAM) following volatility 
after the suspension of another Woodford fund in June 2019.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He thought HLASs recommendation was in 
line with Mrs Ms objectives, moving to exposure to managed equities of around 75%.       
Mrs Ms exposure to WIFF, amounting to 10% of the portfolio, did not expose her to more 
risk than she wanted to take. HLAS did not provide any advice in June 2019 and Mrs Ms 
decision to sell WIFF holdings wasnt prompted by HLAS but by information in third party 
sources.
Mrs M does not agree. Mrs M points to negative press reviews of the fund manager in and 
around June 2019. Further, it is said on her behalf that risk tolerance is not relevant when 
considering the recommendation to include WIFF in the portfolio, the removal of the WIFF 
from the Wealth List was tardy, the decision to replace the fund manager and the decision by 
the new manager to replace the holdings in WIFF was indicative of the lack of suitability of 
the recommendation. Temporary suspension of the fund in October 2019 was also 
highlighted. 
As the parties do not agree the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is helpful to explain at the outset that HLAS were responsible for the initial advice to 
invest in WIFF. Once the investment was made, HLAS were not responsible for the 
investment decisions made by Mrs M. Mrs M elected to hold the investment on an execution 
only basis.
Ive considered Mrs Ms circumstances at the time advice was sought. Mrs M had given 
consent to be represented at the meeting with the adviser and Ive seen that a copy of the 
advice was sent for her attention. So, Im persuaded it is likely that the information recorded 
about her circumstances was accurate.
Mrs M had substantial funds in a stock and shares ISA and was looking to move to a diverse 
portfolio of collective investments, with the aim of achieving an income and some capital 
growth to support her retirement. It was said on Mrs Ms behalf that she was prepared to 
take more risk to gain higher returns, having a risk tolerance of 5 out of scale of 7, indicating 
a risk tolerance towards the higher end. Mrs M was looking to invest for the longer term. Its 
clear from the fact find questionnaire and suitability report that Mrs M had capacity to 
withstand losses. The overall recommendation moved Mrs Ms investments to a portfolio 
with 75-85% of funds in managed equities, in line with her objectives. On balance, I am 
persuaded that it is more likely than not that the recommendation was suitable for Mrs Ms 
needs taking into account Mrs Ms circumstances, attitude to risk, objectives and capacity for 
loss at the time.
Ive also considered that the WIFF formed only 10.5% of the overall recommended portfolio. 
The aim of the fund was to prove a higher level of income with capital growth, which was in 
line with Mrs Ms objectives. Im not persuaded 10.5% was an unsuitably large exposure to 
one fund given Mrs Ms overall portfolio. And Ive also taken into account that within the 
WIFF there was a breadth of investment, providing diversification and no guarantees as to 
performance were made. The level of risk exposure was within Mrs Ms tolerance and its 
important to highlight that WIFF was not exposed to the same liquidity issues that arose with 
another Woodford fund. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to discount the fact that 
Mrs M was prepared to take more risk to secure higher returns. 
Ive noted the points raised by Mrs M but it is not fair and reasonable to make an 
assessment with the benefit of hindsight. The matters relied upon by Mrs M, such as the 
suspension of WIFF in October 2019 and the later change in fund manager, took place 
several months after the advice to invest in WIFF was provided and after her decision to sell. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that HLAS did anything wrong in recommending investment of 
10.5% of the overall holdings into WIFF.
It is common ground that HLAS did not provide advice to sell the WIFF holdings in June 
2019. Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ms disappointment about the losses she sustained, ultimately, 
it was her decision to sell.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, but for the reasons given, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Sarah TozziOmbudsman