DRN-3201506
The complaint
Mr G complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) unfairly charged him for 
items he says werent delivered. 
What happened
Mr G has a credit agreement with SDFC which provides finance for goods he purchases 
from a specific retailer. 
He says that the facility was used to purchase a number of items online, in October 2020. In 
April 2021 Mr G told SDFC that he was being charged for items he hadnt ordered. He 
subsequently said that 17 items had been ordered, but he hadnt received them all.
SDFC didnt accept Mr Gs claim. It was satisfied that all of the items had been delivered to 
the address requested. 
Mr G referred a complaint about what had happened to this service. He said that he had not 
received all of the items ordered and also wasnt happy with the nature and tone of 
questions SDFC had asked him as part of its investigations.
Our investigator said that we can consider a complaint about the type of account Mr G held 
under section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But, an S75 claim is subject to 
certain requirements, which hadnt been met in this case. Overall, they found that SDFC had 
treated Mr G fairly in the way it handled and subsequently declined his claim.
Mr G didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision on it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider
to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
From what Mr G has said, it appears that he accepts that he ordered 17 items, but he says 
he only received three of them. Non receipt of items would be considered a breach of 
contract. The complaint Im therefore able to consider against SDFC, is whether it handled 
Mr Gs S75 claim about the retailers alleged breach of contract fairly. I can also consider 
whether it provided a reasonable level of service in handling that claim.
In order to have a valid claim under S75, certain requirements need to be met. One of those 
requirements is that the claim must relate to a single item to which the supplier has attached 
a cash price of over £100 but not more than £30,000.
In this case, Mr Gs claim relates to 17 individual items. Im satisfied that SDFC has 
demonstrated that each item had a cash price of less than £100. As a result, I think its clear 
that Mr Gs claim for individual items he says were not delivered, does not meet S75 
requirements. So, I think SDFC acted fairly by declining the claim.
I note that our investigator said that she had considered SDFC had demonstrated the goods 
were delivered, but I need not make a finding on that point given that Im satisfied S75 
doesnt apply. I also note that SDFC does not accept responsibility for non-delivery of items 
under the account terms and conditions.
Ive also carefully considered what Mr G has said about the service he received from SDFC 
in handling his claim. Even if I accept what Mr G has said about the questions he was asked 
and the way things were handled, I dont think that SDFC handled things unreasonably or 
provided a level of service which fell below the standard which could be reasonably 
expected.
Lastly, I note Mr Gs strength of feeling about his complaint. He may wish to seek 
independent advice about whether he can pursue a claim directly with the retailer should he 
want to.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman