DRN-2573491
The complaint
Mr C and Miss F have complained about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA). They are not 
happy that it turned down a claim under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C and Miss F were due to travel back from their trip abroad in September 2019, but their 
flight was cancelled due to air traffic control problems. So, they made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for the out of pocket expenses and other costs they incurred. But IPA 
turned down the claim as they werent covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
And so Mr C and Miss F complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint. Although she 
sympathised with Mr C and Miss Fs position she didnt think that IPA had done anything 
wrong. It was just unfortunate that the policy didnt cover the circumstances surrounding their 
claim and so she thought IPA hadnt acted unfairly. 
Mr C and Miss F didnt agree. They seem to accept that their claim wasnt covered by the 
policy. But felt that the policy had been mis-sold and that the details surrounding what they 
could and couldnt claim for were tucked away in the policy documentation. And as they 
didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr C and Miss F found 
themselves, I agree with our investigator that IPA havent acted unfairly, Ill explain why.
Mr C and Miss F were looking to recoup the additional costs they incurred when their flight 
was cancelled because of an air traffic control technical problem. Although they claimed 
some costs back from the airline they couldnt claim them all, so they looked to claim under 
their travel insurance policy.   
However, the terms and conditions under which Mr C and Miss F were entitled to make a 
claim are set out in the policy documentation and are quite restrictive. The terms and 
conditions explain the circumstances in which a claim will be met if a flight is cancelled 
before or after the scheduled time of departure as a result of any of the following events 
before going on to list a number of specific circumstances in which a claim would be 
successful. 
But Mr C and Miss Fs reason for the flight cancellation isnt listed and would need to be for 
the policy to meet the claim. There simply isnt any provision in the policy which would allow 
for a claim in the circumstances Mr C and Miss F found themselves in. Their flight was 
cancelled due to a system error or technical fault with the air traffic control system which isnt 
outlined in the policy. As such I cant ask IPA to pay the claim as it wouldnt be fair, and I 
have to be fair to both sides. 
It isnt the role of this service to tell an insurer what it should or shouldnt include in its 
policies. And, in this case its my role to look at whether IPA acted fairly and in line with the 
policy in declining the claim. Having considered everything Mr C, Miss F and IPA have 
provided I cant say IPA have acted unfairly in turning down the claim. 
Ultimately, Mr C and Miss F didnt meet the criteria for making a claim. And it seems that Mr 
C and Miss F accept this. Its unfortunate that their flight was cancelled and that they couldnt 
claim all their additional expenses back through the airline. But the additional costs incurred 
werent covered by their insurance policy. Whilst I have sympathy for Mr C and Miss F I cant 
see that IPA has done anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Finally, I do take Mr C and Miss Fs point that they feel the actual terms and conditions that 
IPA relied on in turning down the claim are tucked away in the policy documentation. But I 
think the explanation around what the policy will cover is clear and as they are aware the 
broker sold the policy and provided all the policy documentation. So the broker would be 
responsible for this and any allegation about the policy being mis-sold. I understand that Mr 
C and Miss F have complained about this separately, so I wont comment any further on this. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman