DRN-3744080
The complaint
Mr B, represented by Mrs B, complains about the settlement figure paid by esure Insurance 
Limited (esure) on his motor insurance policy when his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr B had motor insurance with esure. His car was stolen. It took a little while for esure to 
deal with the claim. Mr B was buying the car the car on finance and made two monthly 
payments of £669.12 each after the car was stolen. A third monthly payment was due before 
esure settled the claim. However Mr B cancelled his direct debit and didnt make this last 
payment, as he didnt want to pay for a car he no longer had. Esure got a settlement figure 
for the finance agreement from the finance company, which was based on Mr B making the 
last payment. Esure paid this amount to the finance company. Esure paid the difference 
between the market value of the car and the settlement figure to Mr B. But as Mr B hadnt 
actually paid the last instalment, esures payment to the finance company wasnt enough to 
pay off the finance agreement. The finance company asked Mr B to make up the difference. 
Mr B wasnt happy about this and complained to esure. Esure said Mr B wasnt actually out 
of pocket as the settlement figure would have been different had the finance company 
known he wasnt going to make the final payment. Esure said it had paid the market value of 
the car, mostly to the finance company but with a small amount that was over the settlement 
figure to Mr B, and this was the maximum amount payable under the terms of his policy. 
However esure acknowledged that it had taken too long to settle the claim, and paid Mr B 
£300 in recognition of this.
Mr B wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She said she didnt think Mr B was at any financial detriment due to 
esure taking longer to settle the claim. She said shed seen nothing to suggest that Mr B was 
out of pocket 
Mr B wasnt happy with what the investigator said so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr B wants esure to pay the amount of £669.12 which the finance company wants to recover 
from him. He also says esure agreed to refund the two monthly instalments he paid to the 
finance company after the car was stolen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs insurance policy documents from esure said:
Fire and theftWe wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, 
less the total excess payable.
If you have acquired your car through lease or contract hire, we will pay the lease or 
contract hire company either the market value of the car, or the amount required to settle the 
agreement, whichever is less.
Mr Bs claim was made in early October and settled in late December. He paid the October 
and November finance instalments after the car was stolen. He cancelled the direct debit 
and so the December instalment wasnt paid. However the finance company didnt know that 
Mr B wasnt going to pay the December instalment and so it gave esure a settlement figure 
for the finance agreement based on him paying it. 
The figures were as follows:
Monthly finance instalment payments £669.12
Market value of car £27,074 
Policy excess £450
Total amount agreed by esure to settle the claim and the maximum esure would pay 
under the terms of the policy (market value minus excess) £26,624
Settlement figure from finance company assuming December instalment paid 
£26,185.20
Amount to be paid to finance company £25,735.20 (amount needed to settle the 
finance agreement minus the excess)
Amount remaining to be paid to Mr B £888.80 (market value minus excess minus 
amount paid to finance company)
So the finance company were £669.12 short of their settlement figure as the December 
payment wasnt made. This is the amount the finance company wanted to recover from Mr 
B.
If the finance company had known Mr B wasnt going to pay the December instalment, the 
figures would have been: 
Monthly finance instalment payments £669.12
Market value of car £27,074
Settlement figure from finance company with no December payment £26,854.32 
(settlement figure quoted plus one months instalment payment)
Policy excess £450
Amount to be paid to finance company £26,404.32 (amount needed to settle the 
finance agreement minus the excess)
Amount remaining to be paid to Mr B £219.68 (market value minus excess minus 
amount paid to finance company)
So the amount paid to Mr B by esure would have been £669.12 less if the finance company 
had known he wasnt going to pay the December instalment of £669.12. He would have got 
£219.68 instead of £888.80. Similarly the figures would have been different if Mr B hadnt paid the October and 
November instalments as the settlement figure would have been higher and the market 
value minus the excess wouldnt have been enough to cover it. So in fact Mr B isnt out of 
pocket as if he hadnt paid the October and/or November instalment payments he would 
have had to pay something to the finance company to settle the finance agreement. And the 
amount he was actually paid by esure in effect included the December instalment payment.
Mr B says Mrs B was told by esure in a phone call that it would refund the October and 
November finance payments to him. He gave esure the date he thought this phone call had 
taken place, but esure could find no record of a call on this date. Esure said a call had taken 
place around this time but it hadnt been recorded. However esure said the call was with an 
experienced member of staff who would have known the correct advice to give and who 
didnt have the authority to refund the payments. In the absence of any other evidence I cant 
say that esure did agree to refund the payments.
Esure has accepted that it did take too long to deal with Mr Bs claim, and it has paid him 
£300 in recognition of this. In all the circumstances of the case I think esure has acted fairly 
and reasonably and in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint so I wont be asking esure 
Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman