DRN-3121479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the refund amount Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has 
offered in relation to their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an annual trip travel insurance policy with URV starting in October 
2019. And theyd intended to take several holidays abroad in 2020, including a cruise. 
Unfortunately, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs and Mrs S didnt go on any of their 
planned trips. Only one of the trips had been booked in advance. This was for August 2020, 
but it was ultimately cancelled by the provider and Mr and Mrs S received a refund of their 
deposits. 
In September 2020, Mr and Mrs S contacted URV and said they would not be renewing their 
policy. And said they should receive a refund of some kind relating to their existing policy, as 
theyd been unable to travel. 
URV said there was less than one month remaining on the policy at the point Mr and Mrs S 
got in touch. And it offered to refund the total premium paid, for one month of the policy.  
Mr and Mrs S complained to URV. URV maintained it had been correct not to offer any 
further refund. It said it had offered to refund one month of premiums, despite their being 
less than one month remaining on the policy. And it had not made an administration charge. 
And as there was less than one month remaining, URV said it had acted fairly in offering a 
refund based on the equivalent of one month remaining on the policy. 
Unhappy with URVs response, Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened, and said they didnt think URV had acted 
unfairly. 
URV made no further comments on the investigators view. However, Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed. In summary they said:
the option to cancel the policy within the 14 day cooling off period is of no relevance; 
they had aspired to take several trips during 2020, but only one of these was booked (an 
August 2020 trip booked in January 2020);
no trips were planned until 2020, but the policy was taken out in advance in October 
2019; and
it was impossible to book the other planned holidays due to the pandemic and the 
government restrictions, so the policy was inoperable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
And having reviewed this case, I think the offer URV has already made to Mr and Mrs S is 
fair in the circumstances. And Ill explain why. 
Ive carefully considered the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid19 
in the context of what is fair and reasonable. And whilst I accept there were government-
imposed travel restrictions in place for some of the policy period, I disagree that this means 
the policy was rendered inoperable.
Mr and Mrs S held an annual travel policy. And, unlike a single trip policy, they didnt have to 
tell the insurer which trips they would be taking or when. The insurer is effectively on risk for 
the entire policy year, in relation to any trips within the scope of the cover. 
Mr and Mrs S were unable to take any of their planned trips due to the pandemic, but they 
didnt know this when they took out the policy. And neither did URV. URV charged a 
premium based on its agreement to cover Mr and Mrs S for a full year for any trips within the 
scope of cover, taken within that period. And Mr and Mrs S had planned several trips. For 
me to say URV should refund the full premiums because Mr and Mrs S were unable to 
travel, would be to exercise the benefit of hindsight. And I dont think that would be fair or 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S have said there was no risk posed to URV by the trip they had booked for 
August 2020. The trip was ultimately cancelled by the provider and a refund given. However 
I disagree that this means URV wasnt on risk. It wasnt known, at the time Mr and Mrs S 
booked that holiday, that they would be unable to travel due to the pandemic, or that the 
provider would cancel the trip and provide a refund of the deposits. So URV was covering 
the risk of Mr and Mrs S needing to cancel their holiday for any of the reasons covered by 
their policy. To say URV was not on risk because the trip was cancelled, is again to exercise 
the benefit of hindsight. And although Mr and Mrs S received a refund from the provider for 
this cancelled trip, had this not been the case, they would have been able to submit a claim 
to URV for their losses. 
Im satisfied that since the start of the policy, URV was bearing the risk relating to any trips 
within the scope of cover. And the risk relating to cancellation of any future trips Mr and Mrs 
S may had booked to take during the remaining policy period, due to an event insured by the 
policy  for example illness or injury. And so I think its fair that URV should retain some 
premium for this. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) supplied with Mr and Mrs S policy, 
says the following about cancellation of the insurance contract outside of the 14 day cooling 
off period.  
Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14 day cooling off period, 
provided you have not made a claim on the policy (irrespective of whether you claim 
was successful or not) and you confirm in writing that there is no claim pending, in 
addition to a £15 administration charge, we will refund 5% of the total premium paid 
on your multi trip policy, for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from the 
date of cancellation, or for Single trip policies, we will refund 50% of the policy 
premium and any additional premium applied to your existing medical condition. These terms say URV will refund a percentage of the total premium for each full calendar 
month remaining on the policy at the point of cancellation. Mr and Mrs S contacted URV in 
September 2020, when there was less than one month remaining on the policy. So in line 
with the terms, they would not be entitled to any refund of premiums. 
However, URV has offered a refund equivalent to 1/12th of the total premium Mr and Mrs S 
paid. So effectively, one month of the premium. In offering to refund the premium for one full 
month, this is more than URV is required to do by the policy terms, which form the contract 
of insurance between it and Mrs and Mrs S. And it said it wouldnt apply the £15 
administration charge. So I think this shows it has acted fairly. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S will be very disappointed by my decision and I do recognise they 
were unable to travel for a period through no fault of their own. But having considered the 
circumstances of this case, I think the offer which URV has made to pay Mr and Mrs S 
£81.71, is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Union Reiseversicherung AG. 
If Mr and Mrs S have not yet accepted the offer of £81.71 and would like to do so, they 
should contact URV directly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman