DRN-3229351
The complaint
Mr P complains about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds decision 
not to cover his legal expenses insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr P has legal expenses insurance as part of his home insurance 
policy. In May 2021, he entered into a contract with a builder which provided that hed pay 
£25,000 for certain building works. In August 2021, the builder left the work unfinished.   
Mr P had paid the builder £20,000.     
In late August 2021, Mr P contacted DAS in order to report a claim. DAS declined Mr Ps 
claim. It relied on an exclusion in the policy, which Ill refer to in more detail below. Mr P 
complained to DAS about its decision, but DAS maintained its position. 
In October 2021, Mr P took county court proceedings against the builder. In those 
proceedings he said that hed engaged another builder and paid £8,500 plus £1,000 for 
materials, so the original builder owed him £9,500. Mr P said that he was only claiming 
£5,000 in order to limit court fees. I understand Mr P was awarded £5,000 and his claim 
fee.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that DAS had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr Ps claim against the policy. Mr P didnt agree with the 
investigator. He said, in summary:
The original contract was for £25,000 but his claim against the builder was for only 
£5,000, so its covered by the policy.
The exclusion on which DAS seeks to rely wasnt made clear in the policy. 
The policy wasnt suitable and was mis-sold to him. 
Mr P asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
Insured incidents
Contract disputes: A dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged agreement which 
You have entered into in a personal capacity for:
Buying or hiring in goods or services
[]
What is not covered
For the Contract Disputes section, DAS will not pay for any claim relating to the following:
Construction work on any land, or designing, converting or extending any building 
where the contract value exceeds £5,000 (including VAT).
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr P has very strong feelings about this matter. I 
trust that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central 
issue, that is, whether DAS treated him unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim. 
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint because I dont think that DAS treated him unfairly. I say 
that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the 
policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Mr Ps claim against the builder comes within the Contract disputes section of 
the policy, as its a dispute arising from an agreement for buying goods and 
services. But DAS is right to say that what happened is excluded from the cover. Ill 
explain why.
DAS relies on the exclusion in the policy which Ive set out above. The exclusion 
relates to claims relating to construction work where the contract value is more 
than £5,000. Ive seen the contract between Mr P and the builder. The contract 
value was £25,000. So, DAS is entitled to rely on the exclusion Ive referred to and 
I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. 
Mr P says that his claim against the builder was for £5,000, so the exclusion 
doesnt apply. Im afraid I dont agree. The fact that Mr Ps claim was for £5,000 
doesnt mean that DAS cant fairly rely on the exclusion. Thats because Mr Ps 
claim relates to a contract for construction where the contract value is more than 
£5,000. So, the value of Mr Ps claim against the builder isnt the central issue 
here: the determining factor is the value of the original contract between Mr P and 
the builder.Mr P says that the exclusion on which DAS seeks to rely wasnt made clear in the 
policy. The legal expenses cover was part of Mr Ps home insurance policy. Its not 
possible for DAS to highlight every exclusion. I dont think that the exclusion is 
necessarily significant or unusual. It relates to a small part of the overall policy. It 
isnt uncommon for policies like this one to include a similar limit. Mr P was 
provided with a copy of the policy document and I think it was for him to satisfy 
himself about the extent of the legal expenses cover. 
DAS didnt sell Mr P the policy, so its not obliged to ensure that it was suitable for 
his needs. But it did have a duty to provide Mr P with information thats clear, fair, 
and not misleading, so that he could decide whether the policy was suitable. I think 
DAS did that here. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that DAS treated Mr P unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman