DRN-3203523
The complaint
Mr R complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday Loans) 
charged too much interest on his loan, while he was on a debt management plan.
What happened
Mr R took out a loan with Everyday Loans in October 2018 for a term of 36 months and he 
borrowed £3,300. The monthly repayments for the loan were around £210 and the interest 
rate was set at around 64%. The total repayable amount for the loan, including interest, was 
around £7,630.
In early 2020, Mr R told Everyday Loans he had entered a debt management plan. Everyday 
Loans agreed to a reduced monthly repayment of around £96 and a reduced interest charge 
of around 43%. The term of the loan was increased as the monthly repayments had 
reduced.
After 12 months, Mr Rs account with Everyday Loans was reviewed and his monthly 
repayments were reduced further to around £85 and the interest charged was also reduced 
to around 20%.
Mr R complained to Everyday Loans as he says, over 12 months, he made repayments of 
around £850, but due to the interest charged, he says his balance has only reduced by 
around £130. He wanted Everyday Loans to stop or freeze interest accruing on his balance.
Everyday Loans explained to Mr R that his balance on his account is reducing as payments 
are being made. But they say that as it was agreed for lower repayments to be made, it has 
been reducing at a slower rate.
Mr R, unhappy with Everyday Loans response, referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator said a business doesnt have to reduce or freeze interest or charges payable 
when someone enters a debt management plan, but in this instance Everyday Loans had 
done so on two occasions. She also explained that while the amount owed has reduced, it 
has done so at a slower rate due to not paying as much back on a monthly basis.
Mr R asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman. He believes the amount of 
interest being paid compared to how the balance is decreasing is unfair. And so it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Everyday Loans had a duty to treat Mr R positively and sympathetically once it became 
aware he was experiencing financial difficulties. For example, it might:
Consider reasonable affordable repayment proposals made by their customer.
Reduce or write-off interest and/or charges, in full or in part.
Reschedule or consolidate whats owed onto terms easier for their customer, for 
example reducing monthly payments.
Mr R told Everyday Loans he had entered a debt management plan in early 2020. Everyday 
Loans subsequently reduced Mr Rs monthly repayments and made a reduction in the 
interest charged. Around 12 months later, Everyday Loans reviewed Mr Rs circumstances 
and agreed to a further reduction in monthly repayments, alongside a further reduction in the 
interest being charged. As a result of both reductions in monthly repayments, it meant that 
the term of Mr Rs original loan has increased.
Im satisfied with Everyday Loans actions as I can see they did consider repayment 
proposals put forward by Mr R to help support the debt management plan he was on. This 
meant Everyday Loans reduced the interest charges accruing on his account as well as 
allowing a reduction in monthly repayments to help support Mr R.
Mr R complains that due to interest being charged, the balance owed to Everyday Loans has 
only reduced by a small amount since entering the debt management plan. I can see that 
while the balance owed has reduced only slightly, this is due to smaller amounts being 
repaid monthly than originally planned. 
Normally, rescheduling a loan to pay smaller amounts over a longer term could mean that a 
customer pays more for the loan than their original terms. However, Everyday Loans has 
said as a gesture of goodwill, Mr Rs reschedule will be done on the basis that he would not 
pay more than his original total repayable. I think this is fair.
Mr R also complains as he feels Everyday Loans should stop the interest on his account as 
it is making his financial situation worse. A business doesnt have to stop charging interest 
even if someone is on a debt management plan. But they do have an obligation to act 
positively and sympathetically if they are aware that their customer is experiencing financial 
difficulties. In this instance, Everyday Loans agreed to reduce the interest charged when the 
plan was in place. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Im pleased Mr R has had the benefit of a debt management plan to help him get back on 
track with his finances. But I dont think it is fair to require Everyday Loans to stop interest 
charges indefinitely or while he is on a plan.
In these circumstances I cant say Everyday Loans needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman