DRN-3850051
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Pi Financial Ltd to transfer the benefits from his
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension
(SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and this has caused a financial
loss.
What happened
Mr R has been represented by a professional representative throughout his complaint. But
for ease, Ill only refer to Mr R in this decision.
Mr R approached Pi Financial in early 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs.
Pi Financial completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs circumstances and
objectives. The information showed the following about Mr R;
He was 55 years old, married and in good health.
He had a mortgage on his home with around £120,000 outstanding.
He was earning a salary of around £30,000. And had a joint monthly income of
£2,850 with his wife. Their monthly outgoings totalled £2,403.
He had unsecured debts of around £25,000 held under an interest-free debt
management plan. He was paying around £114 per month towards the plan.
His employer had moved from a DB pension scheme to a defined contribution
scheme which he was a member of. His DB scheme had a transfer value of around
£388,000.
His main motivator to move his pension was that he had deep concerns about the DB
scheme. It was in deficit and many members had left the scheme already.
His secondary motivator was to pay off debts to reduce his outgoings. He also
wanted to reduce his mortgage as he could reduce the balance by 10% each year
without penalty.
Pi Financial also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to investment risk, which it
deemed to be cautious.
On 24 Jul 2017, Pi Financial advised Mr R to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and
invest the proceeds in the cautious fund of Mercantile Invest portfolio. The suitability report
said the reasons for this recommendation were that it met Mr Rs wish to transfer away from
the DB scheme. It also gave the flexibility for Mr R to repay his debts and reduce his
mortgage by £12,000 per annum.
Mr R complained in 2021 to Pi Financial about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said
Pi Financial should not have advised him to transfer out of his DB scheme. It wasnt in line
with his attitude to risk and they ought to have known he was likely to be financially
disadvantaged by the transfer. Mr R pointed out that hed paid a fee of £5,300 for the
transfer advice and 0.5% on-going fees.
Pi Financial didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said Mr Rs funds were invested in a
cautious portfolio which was in line with his attitude to risk. They said theyd discussed with
Mr R the guarantees hed be giving up by leaving the DB scheme but that he was most
concerned about the security of the existing pension fund. And Mr R was also able to clear
some of his debts by transferring which was one of his objectives. Pi Financial also said their
fees were disclosed to Mr R prior to the advice in a fee agreement that hed signed. They
said their fee was a set fee regardless of whether the advice was to transfer or not.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. 
I sent Mr R and Pi Financial a provisional decision on this complaint. I said that I didnt think 
Pi Financial had given Mr R suitable advice. I thought that if theyd done so, Mr R would 
have remained in the DB scheme. Ive copied the findings from my provisional decision, 
which forms part of this decision, below.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pi Financial's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Im minded to uphold the
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Pi Financial
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in
Mr Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was
in his best interests.
Financial viability
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service waspublishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when
the advice was given in this case.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at the
normal retirement age of the scheme (60) was 9.66% per year. Or 4.29% at 65 which was
Mr Rs proposed retirement age. This compares with the discount rate of 3% per year for 4
years to retirement in this case. The schemes normal retirement age was 60, so I think that
provides the most relevant comparison on a like for like basis.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
There would be little point in Mr R giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here,
given the critical yield was 9.66%, I think Mr R was likely to receive benefits of a substantially
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his
cautious attitude to risk.
The TVAS recorded that Mr Rs estimated income at age 65 from the DB scheme was
£24,385. And the DB scheme was likely to provide inflationary linked increases in payment
for the rest of Mr Rs life. However, Pi Financials cashflow models showed that if Mr R took
a level income of just £19,200, his funds would be depleted by age 87. While Pi Financial did
say in the suitability report that the critical yield was not an achievable return, their comment
lacked any prominence in the report and they failed to demonstrate just how much worse off
financially Mr R was likely to be.
If achieving higher overall benefits was Mr Rs objective, then a transfer out of the DB
scheme wasnt in his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration
when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Pi Financial said Mr Rs main objective was to have control over his funds as he was
extremely concerned about how his funds were being looked after and the ability to grow in
the future.
I think Mr Rs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr R wasnt an
experienced investor and I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to
manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for
Mr R  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
In the fact find Pi Financial recorded that Mr R thought his DB scheme was in a funding
deficit of around £30/40 million and many of its members had left.
In the suitability report Pi Financial wrote that the DB scheme had a funding deficit of £85.6
million in March 2013. Its unclear where Pi Financial got this information from, as theres no
evidence on the file as to where this figure came from or what enquiries Pi Financial made to
find out what the deficit was at the time of the advice. But Pi Financial said there was a plan
in place to reduce the deficit and the employer was paying in money each year to do so.
They also said the transfer value hadnt been affected by the deficit of funds.Its unclear to me if Pi Financial overstated the funding deficit of Mr Rs pension plan in the
suitability report. But I dont doubt that Mr R had concerns hearing that his scheme was in
deficit and other members had left it.
However, it was Pi Financials role to explain and reassure Mr R that there were protections
in place through the pension protection fund (PPF) which would have provided him with
certain benefits had his scheme not been able to meet its liabilities.
While the PPF was mentioned in the suitability report, the statements about it were generic
in nature. And while accurate, they didnt give Mr R specific figures allowing him to compare
the benefits under the PPF with moving his funds to the SIPP. As Pi Financial say Mr Rs
main motivator for the transfer was his concerns about the security of his funds, this
information was vital to allow him to make an informed decision. I would have expected to
see Pi Financial clearly demonstrate to Mr R what the critical yield was to match the benefits
he would receive under the PPF. But this information wasnt included.
Pi Financial have sent us the TVAS reports which show even if Mr Rs DB scheme entered
the PPF, the critical yield required (at age 60) to match the DB scheme was 9.64% if all
benefits were taken as a pension and 8.8% if Mr R took a reduced pension and lump sum.
This demonstrates that Mr R was unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to
him through the PPF if he transferred out to a SIPP. Yet this information wasnt included in
the suitability report, so Mr R was unable to make an informed decision about just how much
worse off hed be in the SIPP even if his scheme entered the PPF.
I think Pi Financial should have explained that the scheme being in deficit was not as
concerning as Mr R initially thought. And I dont think Pi Financial have demonstrated that it
was in Mr Rs best interest to transfer his pension on the basis that he was concerned about
the funding of his DB scheme.
Flexibility
Pi Financial recorded that Mr R wanted to access his tax-free cash to repay his debts. But
Im satisfied Mr Rs debts were being managed and were affordable. I say that because Pi
Financial conducted an income and expenditure analysis which showed Mr R had a surplus
of funds each month of £597. And his debts were held in a debt management plan in which
the interest was waived. So, there appeared to be no pressing need to reduce his debt.
Likewise Pi Financial recorded that by transferring his pension Mr R could reduce the
outstanding balance of his mortgage by £12,000 per year without penalty. The suitability
report says Mr Rs mortgage was an interest only mortgage with repayments of £375 a
month. This was inconsistent with the fact find and Mr R has since confirmed, with evidence
of his mortgage statements, that it was a repayment mortgage with repayments of around
£1200 a month.
At the time of the advice, Mr Rs mortgage had a term of around 8 years. So, the balance
was already reducing in time for his retirement, and Pi Financial had shown the repayments
were affordable. While reducing the balance of the mortgage may have been attractive to
Mr R. I dont think Pi Financial demonstrated how this overrode the guarantees hed receive
in retirement through the DB scheme. And Mr Rs objective of being mortgage free by
retirement was already being achieved through his repayment mortgage.
Pi Financial also failed to demonstrate what affect their suggestion of drawing down £16,000
a year in order to repay £12,000 of Mr Rs mortgage would have on his available funds at
retirement. Their cash flow models didnt cater for this scenario which is odd considering thiswas Pi Financials recommendation. So, Mr R wasnt able to see how drawing down this sum
was likely to affect his available income in retirement and how long his funds would last. The
suitability report didnt consider what Mr Rs likely income needs in retirement would be
either. So Pi Financial were unable to say with any certainty whether their recommendation
would meet Mr Rs income needs in retirement  the main purpose of a pension.
I can appreciate that Mr R may have been keen to clear his debts. But there doesnt seem to
be a need for Mr R to have done that immediately as his debts were being managed under
an affordable plan. And the debts could have been cleared in less than five years time once
the lump sum from the DB scheme was received.
Even if Mr Rs desire was so great to clear his debt, he could have done so by taking early
retirement through the scheme. Pi Financial wrote in the suitability report that the TVAS
report states there is no lump sum currently available under the paid-up scheme but this
comment appears to be incorrect. The scheme had supplied estimates of Mr Rs benefits
including if he retired early in 2017 (at age 55). The DB scheme gave several options of how
Mr R could take the benefits from his DB scheme early, including an option where the tax-
free lump sum exceeded £65,000. These figures were likely to increase if Mr R remained in
the DB scheme until its normal retirement age of 60 which was less than 5 years away at
that time.
I dont think Pi Financial have demonstrated that clearing Mr Rs debts and drawing money
down to repay his mortgage was in his best interest. They failed to fairly compare that with
the option available to him of taking his existing benefits early. Mr R didnt seem to have a
pressing need to clear these debts, so Pi failed to demonstrate why this made sacrificing his
guaranteed benefits in retirement in his best interests.
Suitability of investments
Mr Rs complaint indicates he was concerned with the funds that Pi Financial chose for his
investments. However, as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of
the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr R, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability
of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr R should have been advised to
remain in the DB scheme so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had
been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and the chance to clear his debts on offer through a
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Pi Financial
wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr R shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and to move away from the scheme that he
perceived to be in trouble wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB
scheme.
So, I think Pi Financial shouldve advised Mr R to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Pi
Financial's advice.Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Pi Financials advice. I say this because Mr R
was an inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to risk and this pension accounted for
the majority of Mr Rs retirement provision. So, if Pi Financial had provided him with clear
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought
out and was paying for, clearly explained to him why it wasnt suitable for him or in his best
interests. If Pi Financial had explained the deficit was not as concerning as Mr R thought and
he could meet his objectives of paying off his debt without risking his guaranteed pension,
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr R would have insisted on
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Pi Financial should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice,
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Mr R accepted my provisional decision and made no further submissions for me to consider. 
Pi Financial provided further commentary to my provisional decision. In summary they said;
The DB schemes deficit was evidenced in a report from 2013 which theyve sent us. 
Due to his concerns about the funding, the DB scheme was causing Mr R a lot of 
worry. So, he would have found a way to leave the scheme with or without their help.
Although Mr Rs debts were affordable, he was still being caused stress by having to 
update the companies involved.
Mr Rs income needs were discussed, and his target income was £1,600 per month. 
Although he could live on £500 a month. And the information around the mortgage 
repayments had come from Mr R himself.
The cash flow analysis showed Mr R could still maintain his lifestyle by transferring.
Now that both parties have responded to my provisional decision, the complaint has been 
passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings and redress I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Pi Financial have provided me with the deficit report from Mr Rs DB scheme. This shows 
that in 2013, the scheme had a deficit of £85.6 million. But the report suggested plans were 
in place to have met the deficit in funding by 2025 through extra contributions from the 
employers. Pi Financial also pointed this out in their suitability report. 
Pi Financials advice was mainly focused on Mr Rs concerns about his DB scheme. And I 
have no doubt that when Mr R approached Pi Financial he was concerned. Hed clearly 
thought about transferring away from a pension scheme that he considered to be in a precarious position. But just because Mr R thought it was a good idea didnt mean that Pi 
Financial had to help him do what he thought he needed  it was Pi Financials role to 
determine what was suitable and in Mr Rs best interests.
I dont think Pi Financials suitability report did much to ally Mr Rs fears about his DB 
scheme. Pi Financial didnt point out that Mr Rs employer had a legal responsibility to 
ensure the deficit was repaid so that scheme members were paid their benefits. And Ive 
seen no information from the time of the advice that the DB scheme had concerns about 
being able to pay its members. Pi Financial had to contact the DB scheme in order to carry 
out the transfer. But they didnt appear to make any attempts to get an up-to-date figure on 
the schemes attempt to reduce its deficit, which may have been helpful to Mr R when 
making his decision.  
Pi Financial say it was Mr R who told them 1000 members had already left the scheme. But 
Pi Financial didnt explain to Mr R that it wasnt necessarily a bad thing if members had left. 
It would reduce the employers liabilities and may mean they were more likely to be able to 
pay the benefits to those who remained members. In any case, as Ive said, the PPF offered 
valuable protections to Mr R if his scheme couldnt meet their commitments.
Pi Financial provided cash flow analysis which they say showed that even if Mr Rs funds 
returned 2% (net) each year, hed have an income of £1,600 a month to last him to age 87. 
So, they say this satisfied his income requirements in retirement. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, this analysis failed to take into account the £12,000 a year Pi Financial 
had suggested Mr R was able to pay off his mortgage over the subsequent years. This 
would have substantially reduced his pension funds by the point he wished to draw an 
income. Without this kind of analysis, Mr R was unable to see if he was at risk of running out 
of funds in later life. So, Mr R was unable to make an informed decision. 
I appreciate Mr R would have been concerned about his debts. However, they werent 
interest bearing and the DB scheme provided him with a lump sum which he could have 
used to pay off his debts in less than five years time. Had Pi Financial explained this fully to 
Mr R, I think they could have demonstrated it was in his best interest overall to continue  
meeting his debt management plan, which was affordable at the time, until he could access 
his full DB scheme benefits. 
Mr R had a cautious attitude to risk. Which meant he was very unlikely to even match let 
alone exceed the benefits in his DB scheme by transferring even if the scheme entered the 
PPF. As I said in my provisional decision, Pi Financials report lacked clear analysis of just 
how much worse off Mr R would be by transferring, especially if the scheme entered the 
PPF. As his advisors, it was Pi Financials role to reassure Mr R that his DB schemes 
benefits were secure, even if the scheme did have a deficit. Pi Financial claim that Mr R was 
so set on leaving that they couldnt have persuaded him otherwise. But I disagree.
 
Mr R was inexperienced and sought professional advice. Had they clearly explained to Mr R 
why transferring wasnt suitable and the protections already in place if his DB scheme 
needed them, I think its likely he would have accepted their advice and remained in the 
scheme.  
For the reasons Ive given in this and my provisional decision, I dont think Pi Financial 
clearly demonstrated it was in Mr Rs best interests to transfer away from his DB scheme. 
In light of the above, I uphold this complaint and direct Pi Financial to compensate Mr R for 
the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have
remained in the occupational scheme. Pi Financial must therefore undertake a redress
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
Pi Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow forincome tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date
Pi Financial receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
Pi Financial to pay Mr R.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Pi Financial should give Mr R a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect Pi Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Pi Financial to pay Mr R the compensation
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Pi
Financial to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Pi Financial
to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend
that Pi Financial pays Mr R the balance. I additionally recommend any interest
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Pi Financial. My
recommendation is not binding on Pi Financial. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Pi Financial Ltd must put things right as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman