DRN-4374570
The complaint
Mrs B complains because BUPA Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under her private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B is insured under a group private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA and
provided through her employer.
In March 2023, Mrs B contacted BUPA to ask whether it would cover a claim for a
denervation procedure. BUPA said the claim wouldnt be covered, as it considered Mrs Bs
condition to be chronic.
Unhappy, Mrs B complained. BUPA issued a final response letter in May 2023 saying that
the policy which Mrs B was insured under excluded treatment for chronic conditions and for
the temporary relief of symptoms. BUPA said it had already paid for 3 treatments of
injections in a certain region for Mrs B in the past and it applied a 3-treatment limit per
lifetime, and not per policy.
Mrs B subsequently brought the matter to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think BUPA had
unreasonably declined Mrs Bs claim. Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so
the complaint was referred to me. I made my provisional decision about Mrs Bs complaint in 
September 2023. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator say that insurers must handle claims promptly and
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
making my decision about Mrs Bs complaint.
This policy excludes chronic conditions, which are defined in the policy as a condition with
one of a list of defined characteristics. The policy covers unexpected, acute symptoms of
chronic conditions in certain circumstances. The policy also excludes treatment for the
temporary relief of symptoms or for the ongoing management of a condition.
The policy doesnt specifically state that BUPA will only cover 3 treatments of injections in a
certain area. But I dont think it needs to. The 3 treatment limit forms part of BUPAs internal
criteria for deciding whether it considers a condition to be chronic. BUPA is entitled to set
and apply these internal criteria, as long as it does so fairly and treats customers in the same
situation in the same way.
Ive seen a copy of BUPAs internal criteria and Im satisfied that it has applied these fairly to
Mrs B. She has had at least three treatments of injections in a particular area in the past, so I
think BUPA is reasonably entitled to consider the condition as now being chronic. Ive seen
no medical evidence to suggest that the claim which Mrs B was seeking to make arose from
an unexpected acute symptom of her condition. In any event, Im not satisfied based on the
information Ive seen that Mrs B would meet BUPAs internal criteria for a claim for
denervation to be paid anyway.
Mrs Bs policy also doesnt refer to any treatment limit being applicable per lifetime rather
than per policy. But, again, I dont think it needs to. Im satisfied that BUPA is entitled to
apply the treatment limit to Mrs B as the insured individual, regardless of whether the
previous claims were made under a former policy.
This means I dont think BUPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mrs Bs
claim.
Mrs Bs enquiry with BUPA in March 2023 involved her being transferred to a number of
different queues and took what I consider to be an excessive amount of time. BUPA has
apologised to Mrs B for this and Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances,
so I wont be directing BUPA to do anything further.
BUPA replied to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mrs B 
questioned why Id issued a provisional decision and said her arguments had been ignored 
and dismissed, but that she wouldnt be responding to the content of my provisional 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules require us to issue a provisional decision  instead of proceeding straight to final 
decision  in certain circumstances. One of these situations is if the ombudsman is reaching 
the same outcome as our investigator but for different reasons, as was the case here. Ive 
taken all of Mrs Bs arguments  as well as BUPAs  into account when deciding what I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. As neither BUPA nor Mrs B 
have provided any new information about the merits of this complaint, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman