DRN-3003446
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) underpaid his incentive for 
switching accounts. He says he switched two accounts, but only received one payment.  
What happened
Mr S is a partner in a business that runs two practices. He says each practice operates as 
separate businesses and each have their own premises, bank accounts and tax accounts. 
He says theyre owned 50/50 as a partnership with his business partner, Mr V. Ill refer to the 
partnership as S and V.
In June 2019, Mr S was approached by his banking relationship manager and offered an 
incentive payment to switch his business accounts. Mr S says he entered his account details 
into the switching website (entering each account number separately as the website invited) 
and was offered around £6,000 per account number.
Mr S agreed to the switch, but only received one incentive payment of £6,000. Mr S 
complained. After looking into the matter, RBS issued its final response on 22 July 2020. It 
said the incentive was offered for each legal entity, not each account, and that the incentive 
had been paid correctly because the legal entity that had switched was S and V.
Mr S didnt agree, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought RBSs 
process could have been clearer and awarded Mr S £150 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the confusion. But he thought RBS had applied the correct criteria 
and paid the correct incentive, so he didnt ask RBS to pay a further incentive.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed been misled, that he was told hed be paid two incentives 
when he entered his details into the switching website, that hed emailed the relationship 
manager to confirm the two incentives and wasnt corrected and that he had made the 
decision to switch based on receiving approximately £12,000, not £6,000.
Because no agreement could be reached, Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr S has submitted, and I can see why he thought hed be 
receiving two incentive payments. When Mr Ss banking relationship manager approached 
him, he told Mr S to put each of Mr Ss current account details into the switching website. 
When Mr S later agreed to accept the terms of the switch, he emailed the relationship 
manager and said we cannot pass up the offer of over £6,000 per practice to switch. 
The relationship manager didnt reply to say Mr S would only be receiving one payment.
In essence, Mr S says he was led to believe hed receive two incentive payments, that he 
wasnt told there would only be one until after the switch, and that he wouldnt have 
proceeded with the switch, had he been told he would only receive one.
Ive also looked at the available evidence RBS has sent in, to demonstrate the terms of the 
offer. Ive seen a screenshot of the website in question that says what happens if a 
customers business has multiple accounts, or if the customer has multiple businesses. It 
goes on to say that each business is only eligible to receive one switching offer.
Ive also seen a screenshot from elsewhere on the website that further explains what 
happens if a customer has more than one business current account. It says Each business 
is only eligible to receive one offer. To qualify you need to apply to switch your primary 
business current account.
RBS hasnt been able to provide anything to show that the website defined what was meant 
by each business, or that made it clear to Mr S what incentive he would receive. It did 
explain that incentives were paid for each legal entity in its final response letter, but that was 
of course after the event.
Given what Ive said above about what information was available to Mr S before he 
switched, I understand why Mr S believed he would receive an incentive fee for each 
practice he transferred. And I think that misunderstanding could have been avoided if RBS 
clarified to Mr S that it meant each legal entity before he agreed to switch. RBS missed a 
clear opportunity to clarify this when Mr S emailed the relationship manager saying he 
couldnt pass up two incentive payments.
However, I am satisfied that RBS didnt intend to award Mr S two incentive payments. It is 
not in dispute that the legal entity in question here is S and V. Mr S accepts that and it is not 
a controversial point. And, while I accept the language RBS used when describing the offer 
to Mr S caused confusion, Im satisfied RBS only intended to award one incentive payment 
per legal entity, and not per practice.
The business here is S and V and S and V owns two practices. The qualifying criteria was 
for the primary business current account to be switched, and Im persuaded this meant the S 
and Vs primary current account.
While I accept RBS could have explained matters more clearly to Mr S, I dont consider 
RBSs failings in that regard entitle Mr S to two incentive payments. A failure to correct Mr 
Ss understanding doesnt bind RBS to an offer it hadnt made.
With all that being said, I do consider there to have been failings here on the part of RBS. So 
Ive thought about what I think it should do to put matters right for Mr S. Mr S says he 
wouldnt have completed the switch, had he known he would only receive around £6,000. 
And I can see from RBSs notes that hed declined switching offers in the past.
However, even if I were to accept that Mr S would have chosen to avoid the trouble of 
switching accounts had he known the true position, I cant reasonably ask RBS to pay 
greater compensation. Our service can make awards for the trouble and upset a partnership 
is put to as a result of a banks errors. Mr S says that the position he would have been in, 
had RBS clarified that he would only receive one incentive payment, was that he wouldnt 
have switched at all.
And, while Mr S has had to go to the trouble of switching two bank accounts, he has 
received approximately £6,000 as a result. And, having looked at what Mr S has told our 
service, Im not persuaded that he experienced a degree of distress and inconvenience that would justify a payment in excess of the money he has already received, plus the additional 
£150 RBS has agreed to pay.
I understand Mr S feels strongly about his complaint. And that this isnt the answer he was 
hoping for. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont accept he should have been paid 
two incentive payments.   
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC must pay S and V £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S and V to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman