DRN-3192851
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a curtailment claim
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs W booked a multi-centre holiday. They were due to travel
between 1 March and 8 April 2020. They took out an annual travel insurance policy on 9
January 2020. Mr and Mrs W flew abroad as planned on 1 March 2020 and were travelling
through a country Ill call N.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic.
Subsequently, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO  formerly Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but
essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-ranging
restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. This government
announcement included an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential
reasons. Ns government also issued a stay-at-home order on 24 March 2020, followed by
a national lockdown which began on 26 March 2020.
Mr and Mrs W say their travel provider told them to look into cutting short their trip and
returning to the UK early. They tried to get in touch with Great Lakes but werent able to get
through and their questions werent answered. Ultimately, their travel agent arranged a new
return flight and Mr and Mrs W departed N on 28 March 2020. They arrived back in the UK
on 29 March 2020. They made a claim for the additional costs theyd incurred as a result of
cutting short their trip.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said the curtailment section of the policy didnt cover
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and with the service it had provided.
So they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged
that the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs Ws situation. But she noted that the policy
specifically excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. So she
concluded that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have been covered if theyd continued with their trip
and they wouldnt have been covered for cancelling it either. She didnt think this was a fair
and reasonable position for Mr and Mrs W to have been left in. So she recommended that
Great Lakes should reassess Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ws claim. I 
said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether
Great Lakes treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs W found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was
purchased in January 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs W are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy says that Great Lakes will pay for a policyholders unused curtailment
costs if they have to cut short their trip because of one of a list of specific insured events.
The Cutting Short your Trip section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy says Great Lakes will pay
such costs if a trip is curtailed for one of the following reasons:
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion or any
person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or advisory
capacity).
c) complications of pregnancy of you or a travelling companion.
d) you being unable to continue your trip, as detailed in your travel itinerary, due to loss or
theft of your passport, or that of a travelling companion.
e) your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable, due to
fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees, riot or civil
unrest, malicious damage, burst pipes, impact by aircraft, the Police requesting your
presence following a burglary or attempted burglary.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt cut short for any of the above reasons.
This means their claim isnt covered under the Cutting Short your Trip section of their
policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ws insurance policy. But in this
case, I dont think they held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found
themselves in. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W feel Great Lakes should pay their claim under the
Catastrophe cover provided by the policy. Ive thought about this. This section of the policy
says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the table of benefits for the cost you pay, or
agree to pay overseas, for similar travel expenses and accommodation to allow you to
continue with your holiday or journey. We will only do this if you cannot reach or cannot
live in your booked accommodation because of a fire, flood, earthquake, storm, lightning,
explosion, hurricane or a major outbreak of an infectious disease. (Bold is my emphasis).
In this case, Mr and Mrs W didnt incur travel or accommodation expenses to allow them to
continue their holiday  they cut their holiday short. So I dont think this section of the policy
applies to the circumstances of their claim.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ws policy wouldnt have provided
cover if theyd travelled against FCDO advice. She thought this left Mr and Mrs W in an
unfair position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had
clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating toclaims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might
think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms
and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Great
Lakes to do so here.
I say that because the Cutting Short your Trip section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy includes a
specific list of things Great Lakes doesnt cover. This list includes the following term:
prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the
booked trip due to Government action.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Ws claim. But
on 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23
March 2020, the UK government had imposed lockdown, which meant travel out of the local
area was severely restricted. Subsequently, on 24 March 2020, restrictions were imposed in
N and it entered into full lockdown 48 hours later. Travel restrictions remained in place in
both N and the UK for the duration of Mr and Mrs Ws planned holiday dates.
I think then that a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and
government restrictions both in N and the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some
degree on Mr and Mrs Ws decision to cut short their trip.
So not only are the reasons for the curtailment of Mr and Mrs Ws holiday not covered as
listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ws position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket.
But overall, Im not planning to direct Great Lakes to pay their claim.
Its clear Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy with the service they received from Great Lakes.
From the information Ive seen, it seems that contact was attempted to the medical
assistance team  which is unlikely to have been in a position to deal with Mr and Mrs Ws
queries. And I think it wouldve been appropriate for them to have been directed to the
claims team if they had been able to get through. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think
Great Lakes unreasonably delayed the assessment of the claim. And Id also reassure Mr
and Mrs W that the amendments Great Lakes went on to make to its policies only applied to
policies taken out on or after 16 March 2020 for trips commencing on, or after 17 July 2020.
So these amendments didnt affect either Great Lakes or our assessment of the claim. This
means that I dont currently think Great Lakes needs to pay Mr and Mrs W any
compensation for the way it handled their claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Great Lakes didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with my provisional decision and Ive summarised their response:
Theyd paid around £800 for a Deluxe policy and they considered that the scales 
had been weighted in favour of Great Lakes in interpreting the cover the policy 
provided.
The Cutting short your Trip section applies to travellers who cut short their trip for 
personal reasons and where travel routes and accommodation remain viable.
But the Catastrophe section deals with the interruption of a holiday because of 
reasons which arent associated with a traveller. Its designed to give cover in the event that travel routes and accommodation arent viable. In Mr and Mrs Ws case, 
there was no viable option to continue with their trip. But their trip hadnt been 
curtailed at this point.  And they had incurred some additional travel and 
accommodation expenses, as they had to stay somewhere while they completed 
their trip.
They felt their trip had ended when they boarded the flight back to the UK. However, 
their journey hadnt ended until they got home. Theyd incurred costs while waiting to 
find out if their trip could continue to another country.
Their trip hadnt been curtailed for personal reasons  theyd been unable to continue 
with it because multiple occupancies had shut down. When itd become apparent that 
flights were being cancelled and the other country wouldnt allow entry, their travel 
provider had found a trip which would allow them to continue their journey home.
The customer service issue isnt a minor point and hadnt been adequately explained. 
The policy schedule provided the emergency helpline as a useful number. Theyd 
tried to call several times over three days and theyd have been happy to have been 
redirected to the correct department. But the calls were never answered and theyd 
needed help in an emergency situation. They felt Great Lakes had failed in its duty of 
care.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I still think it was fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Mr and Mrs W for their detailed response to my provisional decision. Id 
like to reassure them that while Ive summarised their points, Ive read and considered them 
carefully. And Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs W took out a Deluxe policy which did provide a higher level of 
cover than the essentials or classic covers. However, it remains the case that no travel 
insurance contract will cover every possible eventuality and all insurers obligations are 
necessarily limited by the policy terms and conditions. So even though Mr and Mrs W took 
out a higher level of cover and I appreciate they paid a higher premium for it, it isnt the case 
that all claims will be paid in any situation.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs W feel strongly that their claim should be assessed under the 
catastrophe section of the policy, rather than the curtailment section. But I still think its fair 
for Great Lakes to conclude that both Mr and Mrs Ws holiday and journey were cut short. I 
say that because Mr and Mrs W returned to the UK earlier than theyd planned to. 
Catastrophe cover is designed to allow travellers to continue with a holiday or a journey in 
the event of a defined, insured event occurring, by covering their additional travel or 
accommodation costs. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W did have to change some of their plans before their travel agent 
arranged their early return flight home and there was a potential to travel to another country. 
But ultimately, Mr and Mrs Ws holiday was cut short and the evidence presented by the 
travel agent relates to those curtailment costs. Indeed, some of the evidence is titled: 
Curtailment Information. Ive noted too that the travel agents letter says:It was therefore imperative to repatriate you from (N) as quickly as possible and we had to 
curtail your trip arrangements
I know that there were a number of changes prior to repatriation, howeverthese did not 
incur extra charges to yourselves
It isnt clear then that Mr and Mrs W did incur additional travel or accommodation costs while 
they remained in N. (Although I appreciate they had to pay for new return flights back to the 
UK once their plans had been cut short).Even if Im wrong on this point though, given Mr and 
Mrs W returned home earlier than planned, and that their travel agent also considered the 
holiday to have been curtailed, I still find that it was reasonable for Great Lakes to assess 
the claim under the curtailment section of cover. 
As Ive set out above, the curtailment section of the policy doesnt cover the circumstances 
of Mr and Mrs Ws claim. And as I think the curtailment section specifically excludes claims 
which arise between of prohibitive regulations of any government, I dont find it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes to step away from a strict interpretation of the 
contract in these circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W also remain unhappy with the service they received from Great Lakes. I do 
appreciate that they called an emergency number which was listed on the policy documents. 
I also understand that they were likely very concerned about the developing situation and 
whether or not they would be covered. I dont doubt how frustrating it mustve been when 
their calls werent answered. 
But I need to consider whether any failings in the service led to Mr and Mrs W losing out. 
And in this case, I dont think it did. Thats because even if the emergency assistance line 
had answered the call, as Ive said, I think its likely theyd have directed Mr and Mrs W to 
the claims team. I dont think the claims team wouldve been in a position to give Mr and Mrs 
W a definitive answer on whether or not the claim would be covered at that point. Great 
Lakes wouldve most likely needed to assess all of the evidence before making a claims 
decision. But even if it had, given the FCDO advice to return home and the subsequent 
lockdown in N, I dont think Mr and Mrs W wouldve been in a position to do anything 
differently. I think, on balance, theyd still have had to curtail their trip. So I cant fairly find 
here that Great Lakes caused Mr and Mrs W to lose out. And so I dont think it needs to pay 
Mr and Mrs W any compensation.
Overall, I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ws position. I appreciate it was a worrying 
situation and that theyve been left out of pocket for reasons outside of their control. But as 
Ive set out above, I dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to turn down their claim. And, in 
these circumstances, I dont find that Great Lakes needs to pay any compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman