DRN-2089736
The complaint
Mr C complains that Stagemount Ltd, trading as Quid Market (QM), gave him three loans 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr C took out three loans with QM and details of these are shown below. The loans were 
repayable by two to three monthly repayments. Loan 3 hasnt been repaid.
Loan 
numberDate 
openedDate repaid Loan 
amountMonthly repayment 
amount
1. 14/9/2018 10/12/2018 £300 £147.75
2. 21/12/2018 8/2/2019 £300 £192.08
3. 12/2/2019 Unpaid £300 £147.21
Mr C said that hed taken out one loan to pay another and the loans were not affordable. 
QM said that its creditworthiness checks were proportionate and its decision to approve the 
loan applications was responsible and based upon information available at the time.  
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that QM had enough information about 
his financial situation and his credit file clearly showed that he had nine other payday loans 
from nine different loan providers. Even though QM knew Mr C had financial difficulties, it 
decided to lend to him. Mr C referred to QMs final response letter and said the lender had 
made its own credit file on him showing entries which werent correct. He also said that his 
expenses werent shown correctly on the final response letter. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to QM on 12 August 2020.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that the Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mr C took out his loans. 
The relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all 
loans QM needed to check that Mr C could afford to meet his repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This meant Mr C being able to meet his repayments out of his normal income 
without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks QM needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr C would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
Id said that in general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, 
for example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more 
detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
Id noted that QM had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr C. It had asked him for 
details of his income and expenditure. Mr C had declared his monthly income as between 
£1,184 and £1,266. I could see that Mr Cs total declared expenditure was between £815 
and £975 on QMs loan information documents. 
QM had provided this service with a copy of its credit checks and Id referred to these in my 
decision. 
Mr C had provided this service with a copy of his credit report. I could see that there were 
numerous short term loans on that report. 
Id thought about whether QMs checks were proportionate for Loans 1 and 2. Id noted Mr C 
needed to make three monthly repayments of £147.75 to repay Loan 1 and two monthly 
repayments of £192.08 to repay Loan 2. I could see that the repayments were relatively 
moderate compared to Mr Cs income.  
Id noted that QMs credit checks before Loans 1 and 2 showed that Mr C had ten active 
accounts before Loan 1 and 13 active accounts before Loan 2. There were three defaulted 
accounts from 2015 and a county court judgement from early 2016. There were no defaulted 
accounts in the previous 12 months. I didnt think it was unreasonable for QM to have been 
interested in Mr Cs more recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether the 
loans were affordable. 
QMs credit checks before Loan 1 showed the two unsecured loans and one payday loan 
referred to in QMs final response letter. The checks also showed a recently opened credit 
card, but it had a zero balance. Overall, I didnt think these checks should have caused 
concerns to QM. 
Id also noted from Mr Cs credit report that hed taken out a payday loan two days earlier 
with a repayment amount of £174. But I was aware that when a lender carried out a credit 
check, the information it saw wasnt necessarily up to date. So, I could see that QM wouldnt 
have been aware of this loan. Generally, the information a consumer might see, when they 
requested a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender 
might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, So, this might explain any differences between the information provided by 
QMs credit check to it and the information seen by Mr C in his credit report. I thought that the checks QM carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. And 
given Mr Cs repayment amounts for Loan 1 and that this was his first loan with the lender, I 
didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for QM to have asked him for the amount of 
information that would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  And I 
didnt think the repayment amounts on Loan 1 were so large that its obvious they wouldve 
caused Mr C financial difficulty. So, I didnt think QM had acted unreasonably in providing  
Mr C with Loan 1.
QMs credit checks before Loan 2 showed the two unsecured loans and one payday loan 
referred to in QMs final response letter. But theyd also showed another two payday loans 
and a further unsecured loan. The checks also showed that Mr Cs recently opened credit 
card was nearly at its credit limit. Overall, I could see that Mr Cs other borrowing might have 
suggested to QM that his finances were under pressure. So, I thought this should have 
prompted QM to do some additional checks such as asking Mr C for more information about 
his short term borrowing. 
Id reviewed Mr Cs credit report to see what better checks would have shown QM. I could 
see that the loans described as an advance against income (ie payday loan) in QMs credit 
checks had already been repaid before Loan 2. QM would also have become aware that the 
loans described in the credit checks as unsecured loans were short term loans and that only 
two of these remained unpaid. I had seen these two loans on Mr Cs credit report but 
couldnt see that he had any other short term loans at the time of taking out Loan 2. I didnt 
think that these two loans would have been enough to lead the lender to conclude that Mr C 
was facing problems managing his money. So, I didnt think QM was wrong to give Loan 2 to 
Mr C.
Mr C took out Loan 3 just four days after repaying Loan 2 and the loan amount was again 
£300. By that time, I would have expected QM to be alert to the possibility that Mr C might 
be experiencing financial problems, although I could see that the repayment amounts might 
still have appeared relatively moderate compared to Mr Cs disposable income. 
But Id carefully reviewed QMs credit checks before the loan. These showed that the 
number of Mr Cs active credit accounts had increased to 16 accounts of which 18 had been 
opened in the previous six months. Id thought the higher number of active accounts might 
have caused QM some concerns. I could see that there were five outstanding advances 
against income (ie payday loans) and around three outstanding instalment loan accounts 
(described as unsecured loans) which required repayment over a period of twelve months or 
less. QM would also have seen that Mr C had exceeded the credit limit on his credit card in 
the previous two months. 
Although QM didnt need to do full checks when Loan 3 was arranged, it did need to act on 
the information it had.  I thought that the extent of Mr Cs other short term borrowing should 
have put QM on notice that he was having serious problems managing his money. As such 
there was a real risk that Mr C wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay Loan 3. So as a 
responsible lender, I didnt think QM should have given Loan 3 to Mr C. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr C or QM my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part about Loan 3 and say that QM should put things 
right as shown below. If as seemed likely there remained an outstanding balance for Mr C to 
pay, Id also reminded QM to deal with him positively and sympathetically in working with 
him to come to a suitable repayment plan if he was still experiencing financial difficulties.
What QM should doIf QM has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 3 it should buy it back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If QM isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
1. QM should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on Loan 
3, and treat any repayments made by Mr C on Loan 3 as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on Loan 3. If reworking Mr Cs loan account as Ive directed 
results in Mr C effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed, 
then QM should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement*. 
2. If reworking Mr Cs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then QM 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C. QM shouldnt pursue any 
outstanding balance made up of principal it has already written-off.
3. QM should remove any adverse entries about Loan 3 from Mr Cs credit file.
*HMRC requires QM to take off tax from this interest. If Mr C asks QM for a certificate 
showing how much tax QM has taken off, it should provide this. If QM intends to use the 
refund to reduce an amount Mr C owes, it must do this after tax.
QM responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr C responded to say, in summary, that QM hadnt done enough checks. He said that his 
income wasnt enough to make all the repayments that he had at the time, he was asking for 
more loans and in bigger amounts to be able to repay them all, and the frequency of the 
applications had increased. His credit report indicated that he had two defaulted accounts 
and a CCJ. QM should have asked him for further information about how he managed these 
defaulted accounts, CCJ, and other loan payments. And it should have asked to see his 
bank statements. Mr C provided a spreadsheet with all his credit payment details shown on it 
and his bank statements from around the time of the loans. Mr C also said that he had 
another loan complaint upheld by this service. With so many payday loans given to him 
irresponsibly by multiple lenders, his life was really difficult.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Im sorry to read about Mr Cs health problems and financial difficulties. 
Ive reviewed Mr Cs spreadsheet and bank statements. 
With regard to Loan 1, for the reasons set out above, I think that QMs checks before 
agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. And I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for QM 
to have asked him for the amount of information that would have been needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. I appreciate that Mr C has referred to his financial difficulties 
before Loan 1. But that wasnt something he told QM about when he asked for his loans. So, 
unless Mr C had disclosed his financial difficulties, I cant say that QM would have found out 
about them with the proportionate checks it did before Loan 1 which I think were fair.I note that Mr C has referred to his defaulted accounts and a county court judgement (CCJ) 
and that QM was aware of these from its credit checks. But given the length of time since the 
defaulted accounts and CCJ were made, I think that QM might have reasonably thought that 
Mr Cs finances had moved on from whatever situation had caused the defaulted accounts 
and CCJ to be made. And I also note that Mr Cs repayments were reducing the defaulted 
loan amounts. There had also been no defaulted accounts or CCJs in the previous 12 
months. As Id said above, I dont think it was unreasonable for QM to have been interested 
in Mr Cs more recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether the loans were 
affordable. 
With regard to Loan 2, as Id said above, I thought it would have been proportionate for QM 
to gather more information about Mr Cs other short term borrowing. Ive carefully checked 
Mr Cs bank statements to see whether these provide any further information about Mr Cs 
other short term loans prior to Loan 2 that I hadnt already seen in Mr Cs credit report. I 
could see from the bank statements and Mr Cs credit report that Mr C had repaid four short 
term loans in the eleven days prior to applying for Loan 2. Mr C had also taken out two 
further loans on the same day hed applied for Loan 2, but these may have been taken out 
after Loan 2 and werent shown on QMs credit checks. 
Overall I dont think the extent of Mr Cs outstanding short term borrowing Id seen at the 
time of his application for Loan 2 was such that it should have put QM on notice that Mr C 
was having problems managing his money. So, I still cant say that if QM had completed 
sufficient checks, it would have found that Mr C couldnt afford to repay Loan 2 sustainably. 
So, I still dont think QM was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mr C, although I realise this isnt the 
answer Mr C had hoped for. 
Ive not seen anything in Mr Cs bank statements to alter my provisional decision about  
Loan 3.
Mr C has also referred to another decision of this service in which his complaint was upheld. 
But its important to remember that every case we deal with is unique and treated on its own 
merits. So, it wouldnt be helpful to view decisions made in Mr Cs other case as any sort of 
precedent. 
So, having considered Mr Cs further evidence, I see no reason to alter the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require 
QM to pay Mr C some compensation and take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Stagemount Ltd, trading as Quid Market, to take the following steps: -
If QM has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 3 it should buy it back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If QM isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
1. QM should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on 
Loan 3, and treat any repayments made by Mr C on Loan 3 as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on Loan 3. If reworking Mr Cs loan account as 
Ive directed results in Mr C effectively having made payments above the original 
capital borrowed, then QM should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date of settlement*. 2. If reworking Mr Cs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
QM should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C. QM shouldnt 
pursue any outstanding balance made up of principal it has already written-off.
3.  QM should remove any adverse entries about Loan 3 from Mr Cs credit file.
*HMRC requires QM to take off tax from this interest. If Mr C asks QM for a certificate 
showing how much tax QM has taken off, it should provide this. If QM intends to use the 
refund to reduce an amount Mr C owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman