DRN-1702662
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1992 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mr M and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc 
(trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
They complain they didnt know PPI had been added to their mortgage account.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr M and Mrs M disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
The mortgage only covered Mr M, so sometimes I will only refer to him. Although I will refer 
to Mr M and Mrs M where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms and Mrs Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Santander should have made Mr M and Mrs M aware they had a choice in buying the policy. 
They say they were not aware the policy had been added to their mortgage.
Neither Santander nor Mr M and Mrs M have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont 
think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 28 years ago. But it does mean I 
have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Santander produced a sample of the PPI application forms which it said Mr M and Mrs M 
were most likely to have seen around the time of the sale. So as there was a separate 
application form for PPI with a separate direct debit mandate, I think its likely the optional 
nature would have been made clear as a consumer could decline to complete the form - and 
Mr M and Mrs M havent told me anything which makes me think Santander didnt follow its 
normal process here. I also noted the policy was tailored to cover Mr M only - so I think their 
primary concern was that only Mr Ms salary needed PPI support which means they probably 
were aware it had been added to the mortgage account. So overall, I think its more likely 
Santander made it clear to them they had a choice about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it 
to cover Mr M, although I can understand why they may not remember that now.
Santander says it cant say whether the sale was advised or non-advised, so it has assumed 
it was an advised sale which means the PPI information had to be clear enough for Mr M and Mrs M to make an informed decision and the policy had to be suitable for their needs. 
So I will also continue on the basis it was an advised sale as this creates a higher test level 
for Santander.
I think the policy probably was suitable for Mr M because he was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and he wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mr M says he would have received employee benefits, had savings, shares and 
other insurance. But the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 36 months for accident 
and sickness and 12 months for unemployment cover. This would have been in addition to 
and for longer than his employee benefits and would have saved his other incomes for other 
expenses and other insurance events. The mortgage was a long term financial commitment 
secured on their home, so I think having the security that their mortgage repayments would 
be made if Mr M was unable to work would have been important to them. So I dont think Mr 
Ms employee benefits and other incomes made the policy unsuitable.
Mr M said he could rely on his wifes income. I do understand the point, but he may not have 
been able to rely on this at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this makes the 
policy unsuitable.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Santander gave Mr M and 
Mrs M about the PPI about the cost, benefits and exclusions wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But having decided they chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover for Mr M. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. So I think they most likely had enough 
information about the cost, benefits and the exclusions at the time of the sale and I think its 
unlikely that more information would have put them off from buying it.
Mr M said the PPI was only sold to him because of the commission the seller would get. The 
FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Santander said Mr Ms and Mrs Ms mortgage was taken out in 1992 and ended in 2008. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here. So Santander doesnt need 
to refund any of the commission Mr M and Mrs M paid for the PPI they had with their 
mortgage. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr M and Mrs M. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
said and about what Santander said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold their complaint.Due to the current circumstances and postal restrictions in our office, I have sent this 
decision by email to Mr M and Mrs M and not by letter as requested. 
My final decision
 I do not uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman