DRN-3290839
The complaint
Miss E complains that Funding Circle Ltd failed to carry out enough due diligence to ensure 
a company she lent to was creditworthy. She says that, because of this, Funding Circle 
incorrectly risk-rated the loan. 
What happened
Miss E held a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer-to-peer lending platform. It 
was an automated account where loan parts were bought and sold on behalf of Miss E 
based on a set criteria  including risk profile. Miss Es account had a balanced risk profile  
meaning she could be allocated loans across the full range of risk bands (A+ to E rated 
loans).
Miss E was allocated a loan in a business I shall refer to as Company A in April 2018 which 
was in the C risk band. Company A stopped making loan repayments in December 2018 and 
the loan defaulted in March 2019.
Miss E complained to Funding Circle in July 2021. She said Funding Circle failed in the way 
it carried out due diligence on the borrower before allowing her to invest in the loan. 
Specifically, she raised concerns over Funding Circle using Company As accounts that were 
over a year old, as she said it wouldnt have been able to accurately assess and price risk 
without more up to date accounts. 
She also had concerns that Funding Circle had risk-rated the loan as in the C band. She 
said the Delphi Score (an analytical tool designed to highlight the strength, performance and 
ultimately the creditworthiness of each company in a single score) was 15 out of 100 which 
she said meant the loan should have been given a higher risk rating than Funding Circle 
assigned to the loan. 
Miss E also queried the categorisation of the business nature of the loan. She said Company 
A was categorised as Transport and Logistics whereas it was listed on Companies House 
as an Information Technology Consultancy. 
Miss E also said Funding Circle had failed to conduct ongoing loan management as 
Company A failed to use the borrowed funds as stipulated in the promotional material.
Funding Circle didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said that no issues were identified 
throughout the underwriting and funding process of the loan. With regards to due diligence it 
said its credit analytics team have developed a risk model built on a complex structure that 
analyses a very large range of data. Much of the information sourced is from credit agencies 
and data suppliers, and the information supplied by the borrower is then used to support this. 
Miss E didnt accept the response, so referred her to complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, he said:
He obtained the financial information and the accounts Funding Circle gathered from 
Company A in order to carry out its due diligence. This included accounts for the year 
ending 28 February 2017, bank statements, as well as a personal guarantee from the 
director of Company A prior to approving the loan.
He was satisfied that there was nothing within the financial documentation which 
would indicate that there were any issues with the borrower or that it was 
inappropriate for the loan to be acquired on Miss Es account. He didnt think Funding 
Circle acted outside of how it described the function of the account.
He noted Miss Es comments that Funding Circle should have obtained more recent 
accounts. But at the time of the loan being approved, the accounts for the year 
ending 28 February 2018 had not yet been filed with Companies House and werent 
due until 30 November 2018. Therefore, had Funding Circle obtained these accounts 
from Company A, it would not have been able to carry out any verification and so it 
was reasonable for it to use the latest accounts that had been filed i.e. account 
ending 28 February 2017. 
Hed also considered the bank statements obtained and saw nothing within them that 
would lead him to say that Funding Circle failed to act in the best interest of all 
parties when the loan was made available on its platform.
He acknowledged Miss Es concerns regarding the difference in risk assessment but 
explained that the Delphi risk doesnt dictate the risk band Funding Circle assigns to 
loans on its platform.
Whilst Funding Circles own model utilises information from the Delphi Score, it also 
uses detailed financials provided by the applicant, full accounts, bank account 
statements, as well as historical data of loan performance and applications over 
several years of lending exclusively to small businesses. 
The categorisation of the business nature, in his view, wouldnt have made a 
difference to whether or not the loan would have been allocated to her, as this was 
decided by the risk rating assigned to the loan and her chosen level of risk.
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators findings. She referred to extracts from the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) guidance papers throughout her 
response to highlight Funding Circles failings. She said it wasnt enough that Funding Circle 
simply collected the financial data. Instead it ought to have analysed this to the extent that it 
understood the difference between the C band assigned to the loan and the comparable  
Delphi Score. 
She also highlighted extracts from Funding Circles website about requirements for 
borrowers applying for loans. These include that management accounts may be requested, 
depending on the age of the most recently filed accounts. She questioned how old filed 
accounts had to be before Funding Circle should ask for management accounts. She said 
the published information on Funding Circles website gave her the right to believe that 
accounts as old as the ones used by Funding Circle to approve the loan would be 
supplemented by more up to date management accounts.
She also said the business nature of the loan being incorrectly categorised as Transport 
and Logistics was relevant as it was part of the promotional material. She also said that an 
incorrect categorisation could have led to Funding Circle making an unfair comparison to a 
similar business when completing its due diligence on Company As finances. 
Miss E also said Funding Circle didnt carry out ongoing loan management, as it ought to 
have known that Company A didnt use the money lent for its given purpose. She said shed 
looked at the 2019 accounts and these showed no sign of any assets being purchased, even 
after ten months of loan being given. As such, she felt she should be compensated the loss 
she suffered  around £75.As Miss E didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope Miss E doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each submission 
or every point she has raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to do that, but rather to 
explain my findings on the key issues. The crux of Miss Es complaint is about the due 
diligence Funding Circle undertook before allocating a loan to her peer-to-peer lending 
account. Essentially, she believes failings in the due diligence led to her being allocated a 
loan that was incorrectly risk-rated.
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Funding 
Circle. Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are 
set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are: 
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCAs consultation papers on loan-based and investment-
based crowdfunding platforms  including the refences to the due diligence expectations 
placed on platforms. 
As explained above, the loan subject to this complaint was added to Miss Es account as 
part of the automated loan allocation process. This means she didnt select the loan after 
reviewing a promotion  so Im not considering whether she was provided with misleading 
information before deciding whether to invest. But rather whether Funding Circle acted in her 
best interests by allowing the loan to be available for allocation to her based on the selected 
investment criteria for her account. This included the due diligence it completed before 
allowing her to invest.Miss E has raised concerns about the use of the year ending 28 February 2017 accounts by 
Funding Circle as part of its due diligence. She says that it should have obtained more up to 
date management accounts and by not doing this it was negligent to investors to give the 
loan until Company A produced up to date accounts. She believes obtaining more up to date 
accounts would have either changed the risk level of the loan or led to it not being accepted 
 and ultimately led to it not being allocated to her account. Shes also made references to 
information on Funding Circles website that indicates that it may also request management 
accounts from borrowers, depending on the age of the most recently filed / formally prepared 
accounts. Funding Circle has explained that it used the the most recent accounts filed at 
Companies House  which was for the year ending 28 February 2017. It also said it obtained 
further credit related information which meant it used up to date financial information to allow 
it to ascertain Company As current levels of affordability before it accepted the loan. I dont 
agree that it would be fair to say Funding Circle has been negligent by using the 2017 
accounts as part of its due diligence. Its correct that the accounts it obtained were 13 
months old by the time the loan was accepted - but these were the most up to date filed 
accounts. The 2018 accounts werent filed with Companies House until December 2018. So, 
I think the approach taken was reasonable when considering Funding Circles obligations to 
investors. I say this because the 2017 accounts also werent the only information Funding 
Circle relied on before accepting the loan. 
Funding Circle has provided this service with the evidence it collated including further up to 
date credit and financial statements on the borrower before accepting the loan and making it 
available on the platform. I have considered the points Miss Es makes about the information 
from Funding Circles website about obtaining management accounts. This information isnt 
produced for investors but is aimed to provide information to potential borrowers on the 
platform. So it doesnt directly relate to Funding Circles obligations towards investors. It also 
only says management accounts may be requested. But in any case, I dont think the 
references to the possibility of requesting management accounts means Funding Circle has 
failed to act in Miss Es best interest by not requesting them as part of its due diligence of 
this loan. 
Miss E has also raised concerns about the risk rating of the loan. As explained, Funding 
Circle uses its own creditworthiness checks to assign risk bands to loans. The fact a loan 
has failed doesnt mean the risk band assigned was incorrect. I do acknowledge Miss Es 
concerns that this particular loan should have had a higher band than the C rating it was 
assigned  especially considering the Delphi Score suggests it should be higher. But from 
what Ive seen, I cant say Funding Circle has clearly made an error in this respect. Although 
the Delphi Score is considered within Funding Circles overall assessment of a potential 
borrower, its ultimately independent of the risk band assigned by Funding Circle, and so I 
dont think the comparison between the two is helpful here. Even if it could be argued that 
the risk band should have been higher, I dont think it makes a difference to whether the loan 
would have been assigned to Miss Es account. I say this because the balanced lending 
approach she selected allowed for all risk rated loans to be accepted. So even if this loan 
had been given a higher risk rating, it would likely have still resulted in Miss E being 
allocated the loan. I appreciate a higher risk rating would have possibly meant she would 
have received a higher rate of interest. However, making a finding that the risk band should 
have been higher wouldnt lead me to say Miss E should be compensated for her entire loss 
on the loan. I say this as the loss would be the difference in the interest she received and 
ought to have received throughout the seven months Company A made loan repayments.  
However, Im not persuaded Funding Circle incorrectly assigned the risk band to the loan.
I also understand that Miss E has raised concerns that the loan wasnt used for the purpose 
stated on Funding Circles website  for Company A to purchase equipment and a company 
van. Miss E says Company As accounts for the year ending 28 February 2019 show that no 
equipment had been purchased. I think it is worth noting, I havent seen information which determines this assumption is correct. But regardless, I cant see that any guarantees for 
when equipment and a company van would be purchased. Im also aware that Funding 
Circle says it checks the loan purpose is not a use it doesnt accept and also the purpose is 
consistent with the nature of the business. It says the borrower for this loan satisfied both of 
these checks and so I dont think it needed to do anything further. 
As Miss E didnt self-select this loan, Im satisfied it cant be said she relied on the 
information she now highlights about the purpose of the loan before investing. Ive 
considered the information Miss E has referred to in the FCAs consultation paper. In my 
view this guidance is more relevant when a consumer has been enticed into a loan because 
of the information in the promotional material. I say this because there is a heightened need 
to ensure claims in the promotion are clear to allow investors to make an informed choice 
before making an investment decision. But with this loan, it cant be said Miss E has suffered 
detriment because she didnt rely on information about the purpose of the loan when 
investing.
So, in this situation the specific loan purpose doesnt play a significant part of the basis for 
how loans were selected for accounts. Equally, I dont think the business nature of the loan 
was relevant either. I understand Miss E says an incorrect categorisation could have led to 
Funding Circle making an unfair comparison to a similar business when completing its due 
diligence on Company As finances. Whilst I appreciate Companies House lists Company A 
as an Information Technology Consultancy, Funding Circle has explained that the nature of 
the loan was categorised as Transport and Logistics due to the purpose of the loan being 
for buying equipment and a company van. As such, I dont agree that the nature of the loan 
was incorrectly categorised. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that failings by Funding Circle have led to Miss E 
being assigned a loan she shouldnt have been.   
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman