DRN-3488228
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland PLC t/a Halifax (Halifax) declined to refund payments 
on his debit card he says he didnt make.
What happened
At 22:48 on 12 May 2021, Mr As Halifax debit card was used to withdraw £480 from an 
ATM. A further withdrawal of £500 was made on 13 May 2021 at 00:16, before two further 
card payments of £140 and £195.10 were made later than morning. Mr A called Halifax on 
13 May 2021 to report his card as lost. He said his balance was lower than he expected and 
he lodged a claim for reimbursement of the transactions.
Halifax declined Mr As claim and issued its final response letter on 19 May 2021. It said the 
first disputed transaction took place within a minute or the last transaction Mr A says he 
made, that the transactions were spread over several days, without any balance enquiries in 
between. And that there was no point of compromise for Mr As PIN.
Mr A didnt accept Halifaxs findings, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. Among other things, he said the account had 
been dormant until shortly before May 2021, that there was no point of compromise for Mr 
As PIN, and that the nature of the transactions suggested they were carried out by someone 
who had knowledge of the account balance and daily ATM withdrawal limit.
Mr A said his card must have been stolen at an ATM, and that a scammer must have seen 
him enter his PIN. He asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Simply put, if Im to uphold Mr As complaint, I have to be persuaded that, on balance, its 
more likely than not that Mr A didnt authorise the transactions in question. 
The transactions Mr A disputes were all made using Mr As genuine card and PIN. So, if they 
werent carried out by Mr A, that means someone else would have had to obtain Mr As 
physical card and know his PIN. So, Ive looked to see if that could have happened.
When our investigator first spoke to Mr A, he said someone might have seen him enter his 
PIN in the bar he was in that night. But Ive looked at Mr As statement and there are no 
transactions in a bar that evening. The last transaction Mr A says he made before the 
disputed transactions was a £20 ATM withdrawal at 22:48 on 12 May 21. The last time his 
card was used prior to that was at 18:29, some four hours before the first disputed 
transaction. So, it seems unlikely that anyone would have seen Mr As PIN and/or taken his 
card before 22:48.
Mr A did say that he was with some girls at the ATM when he withdrew the £20. And that 
someone might have seen his PIN and taken his card then. And I accept its possible that 
happened. Mr A said he was intoxicated, and it seems that he may have been distracted, so 
its possible his card was taken after he withdrew the £20. And Halifax has provided an audit 
report that shows a balance enquiry immediately before the £20 was withdrawn, so its also 
possible that someone would have observed Mr As PIN, balance, and taken his card at that 
time.
And, while Halifax suggested the transactions dont fit a typical fraud pattern, I dont 
necessarily agree. Ive shown above how a third party could have known Mr As balance, 
and a £500 daily ATM limit is common, so its not surprising on the face of it that that exact 
amount was withdrawn on two consecutive days. And a typical fraudster might look to 
maximise his gain quickly, which ties in with the two ATM withdrawals spaced closely 
together, as well as the continued spend the following morning. 
Further, I note that further transactions were attempted but rejected the following day, in 
decreasing amounts. Which again fits with a typical fraud pattern I might expect to see.
In light of all of the above, this is a finely poised case. However, Im not persuaded that, on 
the balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that Mr A didnt authorise the 
transactions in question. Ill explain why.
Halifax has told our service Mr As card would have needed to be taken before the £20 cash 
was dispensed. And Mr A told our service hed put his card in his pocket after the 
withdrawal. So, if Mr As card was taken at that point, it would have had to be taken after Mr 
A had entered his PIN, withdrawn the cash and returned his card to his pocket. 
Halifaxs audit report shows there were 51 seconds between the £20 and £480 being 
dispensed. So, if Mr A didnt carry out the withdrawal himself, the fraudster would have had 
to have seen Mr As PIN, taken his card from his pocket, entered it into the ATM and 
withdrawn the exact amount remaining on his daily limit. And, with the exception of seeing 
the PIN, all of that would have had to have happened in 51 seconds. And while that is 
possible, given the timings I dont think thats more likely than not to have happened.
It's also unusual that Mr As account balance was at an all-time high on the day of the 
alleged fraud, having not been used much previously. And, although attempted transactions 
continued the next day, there were no further attempts after Mr A had reported his card lost, 
which I might expect to see as part of a typical fraud pattern. And while this all could be 
explained in the context of fraud against Mr A, in the circumstances of this particular case, 
and on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Mr A didnt authorise the transactions 
in dispute. So I wont ask Halifax to reimburse Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold his case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman