DRN-4264837
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money she lost to 
an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms R fell victim to an investment scam in April 2022 after she 
was contacted by a broker Terra Markets (the scammer). 
She was encouraged to invest, and accounts were opened in her name with several 
cryptocurrency platforms and electronic money institutions such as Wise and Revolut, which 
she was told were needed for trading. Ms R then made several payments from her Halifax 
account to her Wise and Revolut accounts between 29 April 2022 and 21 May 2022, 
including around £14,000 being spent on her Halifax credit card. The funds sent to Ms Rs 
accounts were then transferred on again to cryptocurrency accounts in her name, before 
finally being sent to the scammer.
As part of the scam, Ms R says that the brokers applied for loans on her behalf from several 
lenders, including a £37,000 loan with Halifax, which she objected to, but said that cash then 
started being deposited into her accounts. Ms R started to cancel all the other loans that she 
received emails about, but the Halifax loan was paid into her account and subsequently paid 
to the scammers. 
Ms R later realised she had been scammed and reported the fraud to Halifax, but it refused 
to refund the money she lost and said she would also be liable to repay the loan she had 
taken out. Unhappy with this, Ms R referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. She didnt think there was anything more 
Halifax could have done to prevent the scam, as Ms R did not give honest answers when it 
called her to discuss the payments. She also didnt think it was unfair for Ms R to be held 
liable for the loan given she knew it was being taken out in her name. Ms R disagreed, so 
the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Did Halifax do enough to prevent Ms Rs loss to the scam?
It isnt in dispute that Ms R authorised the disputed payments she made from her Halifax 
account and credit card as part of the scam (where her funds were subsequently transferred 
on again before reaching the scammer). The payments were requested using her legitimate 
security credentials provided by Halifax, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Ms R from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
Its common ground that some of the payments Ms R made were considered unusual for her 
account as they were automatically blocked and prompted interventions via phone from 
Halifax. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the 
circumstances with its interventions. 
Having listened to the call recordings, I dont think there was anything more Halifax could 
have done to prevent the scam in this instance, as Ms R failed to provide honest answers to 
the questions she was being asked. On the call it had with her on 20 May 2022 for example, 
Halifax asked Ms R the reason for the payment she was making as well as the loan she had 
taken out, to which she said it was for house renovations. She said that plans with her 
original builders had fallen through, but that she had since found new builders and so was 
going to proceed with using the loan for its intended purpose.
Halifax asked Ms R if anyone had helped her take out the loan and if it was her own 
decision, to which she said it was, and that no one had helped her. This was despite her 
having confirmed that the scammer told her to take out the loan. Halifax also asked if anyone 
had asked Ms R to lie to the bank or download remote access software, to which she said 
they hadnt, despite this being the precise scenario she was caught up in. 
I appreciate that Ms R wasnt forthcoming with the true nature of the payments because she 
had been coached by the scammer to lie to the bank. However, Im satisfied Halifax asked 
the right sorts of questions and gave her enough opportunity to be honest and reveal what 
was happening, e.g. by asking her whether anyone had asked her to take out the loan or to 
lie to the bank. It was based upon the answers she gave that Halifax was satisfied the 
payments were not likely being made as part of a scam. And there was little to suggest that 
she was nervous or unsure about what she was saying. If she had answered the questions 
accurately and said she was in contact with a third-party broker who was telling her to take 
out loans and lie to the bank, then I accept it would have been incumbent on Halifax to 
maintain suspicion and warn her that she was being scammed. But seeing as Ms R was not 
forthcoming with these details, I dont think there was any failing on Halifaxs part to probe 
any further.
So, overall, Im not persuaded Halifax could have done anything more to have prevented 
Ms Rs loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely she would have continued to provide 
false information in order to make the payments. The same would also apply to the credit 
card payments she made because, although they would have appeared suspicious and 
ought to have prompted their own intervention, Im not persuaded she would have been 
honest about what the payments were for in any event.
As such, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold the bank liable for failing to 
prevent the scam.
Recovery
Ive also thought about whether Halifax could have done anything more to recover the funds 
after the fraud was reported. However, in terms of the faster payments, they were made to accounts in Ms Rs own name, and we know they were swiftly transferred on again to the 
scammer. So, there would have been no prospect of Halifax being able to recover the funds 
from the receiving accounts in these circumstances. 
Similarly, in terms of the card payments, there wouldve also been no prospect of a 
successful chargeback claim being made given that Ms R had paid money to accounts in her 
own name. So, I dont think there was anything more Halifax could have done to try and 
recover the funds she lost in these circumstances. 
In terms of the credit card payments, Ive also considered whether Ms R would have any 
recourse to recover the funds she lost under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 
1974. However, in order for a valid section 75 claim to be made, there must be an 
agreement between the debtor, creditor and supplier. In this instance, the supplier was the 
scammer (Terra Markets) but Ms R didnt pay them directly; she sent the money to her own 
Wise account before sending it on again to the scammer. As such, there is no direct 
agreement with the supplier for a valid section 75 claim to be made for either breach of 
contract or misrepresentation, so Im afraid Ms R would have no recourse here either. 
Has Halifax acted fairly by holding Ms R liable to repay the loan?
As part of the scam, Ms R says the fraudster took out several loans in her name on her 
device via remote access software. This included a £37,000 loan with Halifax, and Ms R is 
unhappy that shes being held liable for this debt. Ive therefore considered whether its fair 
and reasonable for Halifax to expect her to pay this back, or if it should write the debt off. 
Section 83 of the CCA 1974 sets out that a person wont be held liable for a debt if it was 
taken out by another person who wasnt acting as their agent. So, Ive considered the extent 
to which Ms R was involved in the loan application with Halifax, and whether she ought 
reasonably to have known that she had received the proceeds of a loan into her account. 
When the loan was being applied for, Ms R says screen was moving very quickly, and that 
she couldnt keep up with what the scammer was doing on her computer. However, she was 
nonetheless aware they were taking out a loan in her name, and says she also gave 
information for them to be able to complete the loan application, as she was concerned she 
would lose her investment profits if she didnt cooperate.
I can see that Ms R spoke to Halifax about the loan during a call she had with it on 15 May 
2022. I appreciate that, during this call, she said she wanted to return the loan proceeds 
because she was no longer having renovations carried out on her property and felt the 
builder may have been a scammer. Halifax said it would put her through to the loan 
department to discuss returning the loan, but it appears that the line was disconnected 
before this could happen. 
However, when Ms R later spoke to Halifax again on 20 May 2022, she then confirmed she 
wanted to keep the loan as she had found a new builder and was going to proceed with the 
renovation works. 
I understand Ms R thought she could cancel the loans later, which for some she was able to 
do so. But it appears she didnt stop the scammer from applying for the Halifax loan on her 
behalf, and she didnt pursue her original request to return the money, so I dont think it 
could reasonably be said that she didnt consent to it. Therefore, Im not persuaded Section 
83 of the CCA 1974 would have the effect of absolving Ms R of any liability for the debt in 
such circumstances, as the scammer can effectively be treated as having acted as her 
agent. And given she later confirmed to Halifax that she wanted to keep the loan (albeit for 
reasons that were not true) Im satisfied she was aware of it, including how much it was for. So, when Ms R received the £37,000 into her account, she would have known it was the 
proceeds of a loan, which she would need to pay back with interest. But instead of returning 
the funds to Halifax, Ms R transferred the loan proceeds to another account in her name, 
where the funds were subsequently lost to the scammer, so Im satisfied she can fairly be 
held liable for repaying it.  
Im also satisfied Halifax undertook reasonable credit checks to ensure the loan was 
affordable for Ms R at the time it was applied for. As a result, taking everything into account, 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask the bank to write off the debt in these 
circumstances. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms R, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of such a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Halifax has acted 
unfairly, so I wont be asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman