DRN-2837264
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that his motor insurance policy with One Call Insurance Services Limited
(One Call) didnt renew as he excepted. Mr D was stopped and later prosecuted by the
police for driving without insurance.
Any reference to One Call includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr D was sent a motor insurance policy (the policy) renewal invitation by
One Call. The policy was due to renew on 1 June 2020.
Mr D was later stopped by police and says he had to arrange insurance or his car wouldve
been impounded. Mr D was later prosecuted by the police for driving without a valid
insurance policy and has an upcoming court date.
Mr D complained to One Call about the policy not renewing. They looked into his complaint
but didnt uphold it. In their final response letter dated 20 September 2020, they stated that
theyd tried to take payment as intended for the policy renewal, but payment was declined.
They say they tried to contact Mr D a number of times to make him aware - without success.
Mr D remained unhappy with One Calls response and referred his complaint to our service
for an independent review. Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended
that it be upheld. She found that it was possible Mr D didnt receive the notifications from
One Call that his policy hadnt renewed but that they couldve followed up. She
recommended that One Call provide Mr D with a letter of indemnity and pay him £250 for
any embarrassment caused.
One Call didnt accept our investigators assessment, so the complaint has been passed to
me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 11 May 2021. Both parties confirmed 
receiving it. One Call by automated email response and Mr D also let us know by email. 
Shortly afterwards, One Call let our service know they had recently been having issues 
receiving emails - so I arranged for our investigator to resend my intended findings to One 
Call, with an extension to the time they had to respond. As they still havent responded Im 
now issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have responded with any further evidence or comments, but Im satisfied 
theyve both received the provisional decision and had an opportunity to respond, I see no 
reasonable reason to deviate from my intended findings. 
Ive included a copy of the relevant parts of my provisional decision below as they form the 
basis for my findings in this, my final decision.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When coming to my decision here, my key considerations are:
Has One Call correctly acted inline with the policy terms when renewing this policy?
      And;
Has One call treated Mr D fairly and reasonably overall?
My starting point are the policy terms - specifically the sections relevant to renewals and
taking payment.
Under the section headed What Happens at Renewal, the policy terms set out:
We will send out your new renewal terms at least 21 days before renewal for all
policies.
This has happened correctly, as Mr D was sent a letter dated 7 May 2020 inviting him to
renew his policy. The new premium for the year was given and the letter stated:
Next Steps
To make life easier we will automatically renew your policy for you so sit back and
relax while we do the hard work.
The payment will be taken from your debit/ credit card or Pay Pal account used last
year up to five days before your renewal date.
If you do not wish to renew this policy please contact us via live chat at
www.onecallinsurance.co.uk before the renewal date. Alternatively you can write to
us at the address found at the top of this letter.
Page two of the letter went further and said that the payment would be taken from Mr Ds
card (ending **76) five days prior to the renewal date and said:
.Please ensure the payment details on file are correct and sufficient funds are
available as your policy will not renew if this payment fails. If your card has expired in
the last 12 months you do not need to call us, your account provider will have
updated the details on our system.
Mr D didnt contact One Call to cancel the renewal, so One Call tried to take payment as
intended. So far, Im satisfied that everything had happened as it should have.
However, the issues here began when One Call say payment was declined. One Call have
later said the declined reason was because the card had expired. I will return to this point
later in my decision - as its particularly relevant to this complaint.
One Call say they followed their normal process after the declined payment and attempted to
contact Mr D to make him aware that theyd been unable to take payment and that his policy
hadnt renewed. They say they tried to call Mr D on 1 June to discuss, but there was no
answer. Whist its positive that One Call tried to contact Mr D by phone, Ive noted thatneither party has said a voicemail was left to arrange a call back. This wouldve been
stronger evidence that Mr D was made aware that his policy hadnt renewed.
Ive also noted that One Call told Mr D in a live chat that they held two numbers on file for
him, but it seems only a single call was made to one of the numbers.
One Call also say that an email and text message were sent stating that payment had been
declined. Mr D has said he has no record of a text message being received. Hes also
provided a screenshot of his messages from around that time and theres no record of the
message from One Call. However, in the interest of fairness to both parties here, I accept
that its very easy to delete a message and it wouldnt show.
Ive also noted that although One Call have shown us their internal system note suggesting a
message was sent, theyve only shown us a generic example of what wouldve been sent
rather than a record of what was sent to Mr D. On balance, I think a message probably was
sent to Mr D, but I think its possible that - for whatever technological reason, he didnt
receive it.
Likewise with the email - it probably was sent. Although Mr D says he didnt receive it and
has since searched his records, its commonly known that many emails can go into spam or
junk folders and can be missed by customers.
I havent ignored the argument that Mr D should reasonably have been aware that his policy
didnt renew when he hadnt received written confirmation from One Call. But I dont find
Mr Ds explanation irrational or illogical. Hes said that with the renewal happening around
the time of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, he assumed there was some disruption to
normal business operations. Its generally accepted that many businesses had switched to
staff working remotely post March 2020 and many offices remained closed.
However, on balance, I still think that One Call couldve made a better effort to make Mr D
aware that the policy didnt renew. They are the experts in the relationship with Mr D here
and will know the possible consequences for a driver if stopped by the police and found to
be driving without a valid insurance policy. I find that a voicemail or follow up calls to Mr D
when they knew he hadnt responded to their previous communication attempts wouldnt
have been unreasonable and potentially prevented the situation that Mr D now finds himself
in.
The failed payment
Next, Ill move onto why payment wasnt taken - as there are number of inconsistencies.
One Call have said that payment was declined as Mr Ds payment card was expired.
However Im not persuaded by this explanation. I say this because Mr D has provided a
photo of the card ending **76 and it doesnt expire until 2022. Therefore, the explanation that
the decline was because of the card being expired isnt plausible.
Mr D has also been proactive and contacted the third-party card issuer - business 2 for the
purpose of my decision. Business 2 have said:
.There has been no payment requested for One call insurance on your
account,[bold for emphasis by ombudsman] it is clear that no payments have
debited your account.
I would like to make you aware that if a payment is requested and there are any
fraud suspicions, this would show on your account notes.There are no notes on your account regarding any potential fraudulent payments
therefore; on this occasion it is clear that the payment was not requested by
One call insurance [bold for emphasis by ombudsman].
Therefore, Im reasonably satisfied that the issue with payment not being taken wasnt down
to Mr Ds card or account.
The policy terms on payment
This policy refers to debt recovery and what happens if a payment due isnt made. In
summary, I find that One Call havent followed their own process here when the initial
payment was unable to be taken. I say this because the terms state:
If for any reason, you default on a payment (instalment or account balance after
cancellation) or any other non-payment of a balance to a member of the One Call
Group, and after several reminders you do not pay the debt [bold for emphasis by
ombudsman], we will exercise any Continuous Payment Authority. If the payment is
still not recovered, we will then refer the matter to our debt recovery department. You
will have to pay, as well as the debt, a fee of £25.00 once the first letter has been
sent to you.
If you still do not contact them, a further £27.00 will be added to your balance for their
second attempt to contact you. The third letter will incur a further £52.00 charge. It is
in your interest to pay instalments or balances on the agreed dates to avoid this sort
of outcome. If the default persists, the debt recovery department will refer this onto
our solicitors who may apply to the courts to recover this from you..
In my opinion, One Call clearly set out their process for recovering a debt - but in this case
they havent followed it. On this point I find that they havent acted in line with the policy
terms and have treated Mr D unfairly. Things didnt happen as they should have and it
seems likely to me that had the correct process been followed, then One Call wouldve made
further attempts to contact Mr D and arrange payment as he wanted the policy to renew.
Summary
I currently intend to uphold this complaint. I find that One Call havent acted inline with the
policy terms or treated Mr D fairly or reasonably when handling his insurance renewal.
Aside from what Ive found to be an inaccurate explanation about the declined payment
reason - as the card wasnt expired, better attempts couldve been made to let Mr D know
that he was no longer insured. In all likelihood, if things had happened as they should have
here, it seems more likely than not to me that Mr D wouldve avoided the situation he now
finds himself in with being prosecuted.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint. I find that One Call havent acted inline with the policy terms or 
treated Mr D fairly or reasonably when handling his insurance renewal.
Aside from what Ive found to be an inaccurate explanation about the declined payment
reason - as the card wasnt expired, better attempts couldve been made to let Mr D know
that he was no longer insured. 
In all likelihood, if things had happened as they should have here, it seems more likely than 
not to me that Mr D wouldve avoided the situation he now finds himself in with being 
prosecuted.I direct One Call Insurance Services Limited to:
Pay Mr D £250 for any trouble, upset or embarrassment their failings have since
caused him.
Provide Mr D with a letter of indemnity urgently and, at the latest, by 20 June
2021 to help him defend any prosecution. My intended findings are separate to the
case the courts will consider shortly.
In the event that the letter of indemnity isnt successful in helping Mr D defend his
prosecution, I also direct One Call Insurance Services Limited to pay any fine levied
on Mr D and to cover any premium increases that could arise out of having penalty
points applied to his license for driving without a valid insurance policy for the next 5
years.
If the letter of indemnity is successful in helping Mr D defend the prosecution, then
this specific part of my direction isnt applicable
One Call Insurance Services Limited should, if it hasnt already done so, ensure that
any policy cancelation is corrected and not recorded on Mr Ds record and any
relevant insurance databases where its recorded - including the Claims and
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). This is to ensure there are no adverse effects for
Mr D moving forward.*
*This part of my direction relates to the policy that shouldve renewed on 1 June 2020. I understand that
Mr D, after being stopped by the police, may have taken out a new, separate policy with One Call
Insurance Services Limited that was later cancelled by him in late 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct One Call Insurance Services 
Limited to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman