DRN-3880536
Complaint
Miss S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
her. 
Background
During the period between April 2022 and June 2022, Miss S TSB account received 37 
payments totalling around £601 from another of TSBs customers who Ill refer to as X. TSB 
was subsequently contacted by X who said that theyd been scammed into making these 
payments to Miss S account. TSB reviewed Miss S account and as a result of its 
investigation, it decided to close Miss S account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Miss S complained to TSB. TSB looked at Miss S complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss S 
remained dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss S concerns. She didnt think that TSB had done 
enough to show that Miss S was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Miss S. TSB didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that TSB has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss S is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that TSB must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Miss S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
TSB also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss S allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss S complaint, I need to decide whether I think TSB had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss S account and that she was complicit in 
this. Its important to note TSB had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it 
to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, it is clear that TSB was contacted by one of its customers saying 
that theyd been scammed into making a number of payments into Miss S account. So I can 
understand why TSB had concerns about the usage on Miss S account. However, as Ive 
already explained, this in itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention marker against a 
customer. TSB also has to produce sufficient evidence to show Miss S was complicit in 
fraud. And I dont think that it has done that here.
Miss S has explained that the payments in question were from someone whom she met 
online, whom she was talking to regularly and was planning to meet. However, she wasnt 
able to find the time to do so because of her family commitments. And after an argument 
over meeting X, they blocked her messages which prevented her getting in contact. Our 
adjudicator found Miss S version of events plausible and she thought that TSB didnt have 
enough to show that Miss S dishonestly obtained the funds from X. 
TSB has referred to the fact that Miss S asked X for funds saying that she didnt have money 
to buy food and pay for transport when it could see that she had money in her accounts. Ive 
looked at the statements provided. And while its fair to say that Miss S was never down to a 
zero balance, I think its somewhat overstating matters to say that she was ever in 
possession of significant funds. And while TSB has referred to Miss S account activity its 
clear that similar amounts were going back to her current account around the times she was 
making transfers to her savings account. Furthermore, the messages provided suggest that 
X was sometimes sending funds to Miss S unprompted.   
TSB says that X went overdrawn as a result of sending Miss S all of their funds and that 
once they told her that they couldnt send anything more Miss S blocked their messages and 
ceased all contact. But it hasnt provided anything to support this. I accept that X might have 
gone overdrawn. However, the messages provided do not clearly confirm that Miss S 
stopped communicating with X because of this or because he refused to send further funds, 
in the way that TSB appears to be suggesting.     
As Ive explained, it is TSBs responsibility to demonstrate that Miss S was knowingly 
engaged in fraudulent activity, it isnt for Miss S to have to disprove this. And I think that TSB 
has failed to do that here. TSB needs to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it 
could report the matter to the police. In other words, in this case, a reasonable suspicion that 
Miss S obtained the funds in question fraudulently. 
Having considered everything provided, I dont think it has done that here. The information 
provided show that X was sending Miss S funds, which isnt in dispute and which Miss S 
hasnt ever denied. And its just as, if not more likely that X reported being a victim of fraud 
because they later regretted sending the funds than it is that Miss S never intended to meet 
them at the outset.   
 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that TSB had sufficient evidence to 
meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Miss S. In my view, the evidence and 
arguments TSB has supplied isnt enough to clearly show that Miss S was deliberately 
dishonest. As this is the case, I think that it was unfair for TSB to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im upholding Miss S complaint and TSB needs to remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Miss S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss S complaint. TSB Bank plc should 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Miss S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman