DRN-3488010
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Citibank UK Limited didnt promptly update her portfolio when shares 
she held were subject to a stock split.
What happened
Mrs S has an advisory portfolio with Citibank. She had a holding of shares I will refer to as 
T. In early August 2020 T announced a five for one stock split to take effect on 31 August 
2020 (a bank holiday in the UK). Mrs S says she wanted to sell her shares on 1 September 
when the price was nearing US$500, but she couldnt because Citibank didnt update her 
portfolio until 4 September. She sold her shares on 23 September, at a lower price than she 
would have received on 1 September, and she wants Citibank to compensate her for the 
price difference.
Citibank said its standard timeframe for processing stock splits is the trade date, plus three 
working days (T+3). It apologised that Mrs S wasnt made aware of this timeframe. It also 
apologised for the time it took to provide a final response to Mrs Ss complaint and offered 
her £100 for the inconvenience this caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded the 
timeframe was consistent with the time required to settle a transaction and the industry 
norm. She thought Citibanks offer of £100 was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of the advisory service, Mrs Ss shares were held by Citibanks custodian in a 
nominee name. When the stock split happened, Citibank couldnt update Mrs Ss account 
until the custodian had recorded Mrs Ss entitlement. Because of the pooled nature of the 
holdings, its normal for this process to take up to three working days. Citibanks terms and 
conditions dont specify this timeframe  and its apologised for Mrs S not being made aware 
of it. But I dont find the timeframe unreasonable and it is consistent with the industry norm. 
Im satisfied that Citibank updated Mrs Ss portfolio in its T+3 timescale, taking into account 
the bank holiday and weekend. For that reason, I dont find Citibank is obliged to 
compensate Mrs S for the price she would have received if shed been able to sell her 
holding of T shares on 1 September.
Citibank apologised for the delay in providing its final response to Mrs Ss complaint. It 
offered her £100 in recognition of the inconvenience the delay caused her. I consider this to 
be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Citibank UK Limited should pay Mrs S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman