DRN-3965191
The complaint
Mr T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has not handled fairly a 
claim he brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ts case on 4 October 2022 which covered the 
background in detail, so I wont narrate everything that has happened in this final decision. In 
brief summary:
Mr T purchased a television (TV) in July 2020 at auction from a private seller on a 
well-known online marketplace. He paid £1,550 for the TV, on his Barclays credit 
card, and the payment was processed via a payment facilitator, P.
Mr T found the TV was damaged on delivery and wasnt working. He raised a dispute 
via the marketplaces internal disputes programme which was ultimately 
unsuccessful. He also explored whether the TV could be repaired and commissioned 
a report from the manufacturer to this end, which cost him £350.
After being unsuccessful in his dispute via the marketplace, Mr T involved Barclays 
and sought to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA. The bank told Mr T it 
couldnt take his claim further due to the involvement of P in the transaction (it said 
doing so broke the debtor-creditor-supplier  DCS  agreement which needed to be 
in place for it to be liable). It did, however, attempt to obtain a refund via the 
chargeback process. This was unsuccessful.
Mr T was unhappy with how Barclays had dealt with things and complained. His 
complaint ended up being referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the matter. She made 
further enquiries about Ps role in the purchase, and came to the conclusion that it 
had been involved in a way which did not break the DCS agreement. She also 
concluded the TV had been damaged in transit, meaning it didnt meet its advertised 
description. There had therefore been a breach of contract for which Barclays could 
be held liable under section 75.
There was some back and forth, but in the end our investigator recommended 
Barclays cover the cost of repairing the TV, the cost of the manufacturers report, 
plus compensatory interest and £100 compensation. Communications broke down 
between all parties however, which meant the case was passed to me to decide.
I then issued a provisional decision. I could summarise my provisional findings as follows:
There were a number of matters which were not in dispute. Firstly, it wasnt disputed 
that the chargeback process had failed and there was little more Barclays could have 
done to obtain a refund via that route. Secondly, it wasnt disputed any longer that 
there was a valid DCS agreement which would allow Mr T to hold Barclays liable for 
breaches of contract or misrepresentations by the seller of the TV. I noted our 
investigators analysis that P had acted as a payment processor, and that this meant 
the DCS agreement was valid, was in line with relevant case law on the subject. 
Finally, it was not disputed that the TV had been damaged during the process of 
delivery to Mr T, rather than it becoming damaged after it had come into his 
possession.
I considered what legislation would apply to Mr Ts purchase. The evidence 
suggested he had bought the TV from a private seller rather than a trader, so the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) didnt apply. Instead, the applicable law was the 
Sale of Goods Act 1979 (SGA). 
The effect of the SGA was that it was an implied term of the contract of sale that the 
TV would match any description given to it by the seller. The seller has described the 
TV as being in full working order but when Mr T had received it, it was broken. On the 
face of it, there had therefore been a breach of contract by the seller unless 
responsibility for damage during delivery fell on Mr T. The SGA didnt make any 
specific provision for who would be responsible for goods being damaged in the 
course of delivery, but this didnt matter because it was apparent Mr T and the seller 
had agreed that the seller would be responsible for such damage. Both would have 
needed to sign up to the marketplaces user agreement, which made it clear that 
sellers agreed to take responsibility for damage in transit.
Mr T could hold Barclays liable for the sellers breach of contract in supplying him 
with the broken TV, under section 75 of the CCA. So this left the question of what an 
appropriate remedy would look like.
I noted that ordinarily Mr T would be able to claim damages for the breach of 
contract, or terminate the contract and recover the money hed paid. The latter wasnt 
possible as Mr T couldnt return the TV as he had arranged for it to be disposed of, 
so the appropriate remedy would be damages. This would normally be calculated 
based on either the cost of repair or the difference in value between what had been 
contracted for and what had actually been received. It would also be reasonable to 
include in any award the cost to Mr T of proving the defects (i.e. the cost of the report 
from the manufacturer).
I noted the cost of repairs was uncertain. The manufacturer had indicated it could be 
less, or much more, than a figure of £636 it had suggested in its report. Given the TV 
had been disposed of and would not be repaired, I thought it fairer if the redress 
represented the difference in value. Given the TV had been purchased at auction, 
and a price achieved at auction is a good indicator of market value, I considered the 
£1,550 Mr T had agreed to pay for it was its value at the time, as advertised. It was 
less easy to work out how much it would have been worth in a broken state. After 
carrying out research on the same marketplace Mr T had used, I estimated the TV in 
a broken state would have been worth about £600, making the difference in value 
£950.
I observed that requiring Barclays to pay £950 to Mr T for a TV which had cost him 
£1,550 and which he no longer possessed, did seem to leave him out of pocket. 
However, it had ultimately been his decision to dispose of it without being paid for it, 
and that wasnt something I thought it would be reasonable to hold the seller or 
Barclays for.
I therefore said that I was minded to conclude Barclays had not acted fairly in declining 
Mr Ts section 75 claim, and that I intended to direct Barclays to pay Mr T £950 plus 
compensatory interest in respect of the damage to the TV, £350 plus compensatory interest to cover the cost of the manufacturers report, and £100 compensation. 
I invited both parties to the complaint to let me have any further evidence or arguments they 
wanted me to consider. Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr T appeared broadly 
to agree with parts of the provisional decision but did not think the level of compensation was 
in the right place. I think it would be fair to say, in summary, that his view was that he had 
been put to considerable inconvenience and had to expend a lot of effort in making his case, 
and things had taken far too long to resolve.
The case has now been returned to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There appears to be no fundamental disagreement now on whether, and to what extent, 
Barclays is liable under section 75 of the CCA for the seller supplying Mr T with a TV which 
was damaged on delivery. At the very least, neither side has developed any new arguments 
and so I make no change to my findings on this point.
I will note here, that between me issuing my provisional decision and coming to write this 
final decision, I became aware of a recent court judgment which appeared to be relevant to 
the question of Barclays potential liability under section 75 of the CCA. Having now had the 
opportunity to consider this judgment carefully, and noting that Barclays has also not sought 
to challenge my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from those findings.
This means I find that Barclays should have honoured Mr Ts section 75 claim in respect of 
the supply of the TV, for the same reasons and in the same way outlined in my summarised 
provisional findings.
On the matter of compensation for Mr Ts non-financial loss, I do understand Mr Ts point 
that the whole saga of buying the TV and all the problems which followed, has been very 
protracted. After suffering the initial disappointment of receiving a broken TV, hes been 
through the marketplaces disputes process, dealt with the manufacturer, unsuccessfully 
claimed against Barclays, and then waited a long time for a decision from this service. 
The main point I would make is that Barclays is not responsible for all of those things  its 
mistake was to decline to honour the section 75 claim. Im unable to hold it responsible for 
delays which were caused by other parties, or any potential unfair decision or misleading 
communication from the marketplace. Barclays initial decision to decline Mr Ts claim was 
not obviously wrong based on the evidence it had at the time. Further investigation by our 
case handler uncovered more information about the way the transaction was processed, and 
this revealed that the claim should have been honoured.
In light of the above, my decision is not to increase the amount of compensation I will award 
for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above (including the summary of my provisional decision), I 
uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to take the following actions:
1) Pay Mr T £950 in respect of the damage to the TV.2) Pay Mr T £350 to reimburse him for the report he commissioned from the TV 
manufacturer. 
3) Pay 8% simple interest per year* on the above amounts, for 1) calculated from the 
date the broken TV was received (20 July 2020), for 2) calculated from the date of 
the payment (understood to be 12 August 2020).
4) Pay Mr T £100 compensation to the extent that it has not already done so.
*If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much tax its taken off. It should also 
give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr T has questioned the deduction of tax as outlined above. It is not for me to decide what 
Mr Ts tax liability is, but the bank may be legally required to deduct tax from the interest 
element of his compensation and remit this directly to HM Revenue & Customs. Mr T may 
find our guidance on tax on compensation helpful1, as well as the relevant guidance from the 
tax authorities.2
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman
1 https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/tax (retrieved 24 March 2023)
2 https://www.gov.uk/hmrc-internal-manuals/savings-and-investment-manual/saim9115 (retrieved 24 
March 2023)