DRN-2806292
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank Plc sold his Barclaycard debt to a company, P, which he 
believes is profiting from the transaction.    
What happened
Mr T had a Barclaycard but was struggling to make payments in line with the agreed terms. 
In August 2016, when Mr T owed around £10,500 on the card account, Barclays issued a 
default notice. After that, Mr T was able to make regular monthly payments  albeit of less 
than the minimum due under the card agreement  through a debt charity. 
In July 2019 Barclays sold the debt to a third party, which Ill call P. Mr T complained about 
that. He says he does not believe in the circumstances that it was right to sell the debt to a 
company seeking to make a profit from it. 
Mr T referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator appreciated that the sale of the debt might have been upsetting 
for Mr T, but did not thin that Barclays had done anything wrong in doing so. 
Mr T did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has provided us with a copy of the Barclaycard Terms and Conditions. They allow 
Barclays to transfer its rights and duties under the credit card agreement at any time and 
without having to tell the customer. Those terms appear to date from January 2020 (before 
the transfer in this case), but this is a very common term and I think it very likely an identical 
or very similar term applied in July 2019.  
I understand that Mr T feels strongly that Barclays should not have sold the debt and in 
particular that it should not have been sold so that P could make a profit from it. He says that 
it was probably sold, along with other debts, for a fraction of the amount owed, meaning that 
P would benefit if it recovered more than it had paid. It is quite likely that this is what 
happened; P will have calculated what it should pay based on what it thinks it can recover. It 
will make a loss on some loans and a profit on others. 
I appreciate that Mr T thinks this arrangement is unethical and that I should conclude 
therefore that Barclays should not have sold his debt to P. It is however not for me to say 
that Barclays should prevent P from making a profit  any more than I am in a position to 
stop Barclays from seeking to make a profit from its credit card business. 
The rights and duties that P bought from Barclays are of course the same as the banks 
rights and duties. Mr Ts own rights and duties have not changed as a result of the sale and 
his position is not affected by any ability P may have to make a profit.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank Plc to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman