DRN-2942896
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva presented incorrect fund values on their online platform. Mr D 
says that the values showed a higher fund growth than was actually the case which affected 
his decisions on whether to re-invest his fund elsewhere.
What happened
Mr D held assets in a personal pension plan with Aviva. Aviva provided the pension wrapper 
and Mr Ds pension was invested through a Discretionary Managed Portfolio Service 
(DMPS). The DMPS invested in a range of asset classes and investment funds to diversify 
the portfolio. The funds were managed on Mr Ds behalf by that portfolio manager.
Aviva provided an online platform that showed the performance of Mr Ds investment 
portfolio. In January 2018 Aviva migrated Mr Ds pension information to a new online 
platform service. 
In January 2019 Mr D became aware that his online platform was showing incorrect 
performance information. The platform was showing that hed achieved a higher percentage 
level of returns than was actually the case. Mr D brought this to the attention of his 
independent financial adviser (IFA) who made a complaint to Aviva on Mr Ds behalf.
Aviva admitted that there was a mistake with the way that the year by year returns were 
being shown on the platform. They explained that the issue had been caused by a sale of 
funds from 2016 having been entered incorrectly as a withdrawal when the information was 
migrated in January 2018.
The issue took until August 2019 to fix. Aviva apologised for the error and the delay in 
correcting it and offered Mr D £250 in compensation for the trouble it had caused him.
Mr D wasnt happy with Avivas response and brought his complaint to our service. He didnt 
think that Avivas response addressed the fact that hed been denied the opportunity to move 
his fund to a better performing one because he couldnt easily see his funds performance. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He could see that Aviva had done 
something wrong. But thought that their offer of compensation was fair. He said that Mr D 
was receiving independent financial advice which had consistently recommended the Aviva 
platform since 2013. So didnt think the advice would have changed in the time that the 
percentage return was showing incorrectly. So he didnt agree that the mistake meant Mr D 
missed the opportunity to move to a better performing fund.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view, so this complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr D felt let down by the service he received from Aviva and he has moved 
his pension to a different platform as a result. I know hell be disappointed that Im not 
upholding his complaint for similar reasons to our investigator. Ill explain my reasons as 
follows.
In this case, the fact of Avivas mistake is not in dispute. So it wont fall to me to decide if 
they did something wrong. I need to decide the impact of that mistake and what they should 
do to put it right.
Even though Aviva had acknowledged their error I still need to explain what I think went 
wrong because it has a bearing on how it affected Mr D. Avivas pension platform allowed 
Mr D and his adviser to access an online portal to monitor the pensions performance. Mr Ds 
IFA wasnt engaged to do this routinely though. Mr D had his pension fund managed by a 
DMPS. And it was their job to manage the investments and manage the funds performance.
The error on Mr Ds account was a result of incorrectly entered information when Aviva 
migrated information from its old online portal to a new one in January 2018. From 2013 until 
that date, the online portal would have indicated percentage growth figures in line with the 
funds growth. After that date there were six different fund transactions (totalling £105,270) 
that were incorrectly entered as withdrawals from Mr Ds pension.
The investment values on the online portal were still correct. And the total fund value was 
correct. But the screen that showed the annual growth was incorrect. It calculated the growth 
as if £105,270 had come out as withdrawals in 2016. This had the effect of portraying a 
percentage fund growth figure significantly higher than it actually was.
Ive considered what impact this would have had. Mr D wasnt making investment decisions 
within his pension. Hed followed advice from an IFA. And that advice had put the investment 
decisions into the hands of a DMPS. I would expect the DMPS to have been considering the 
performance of the investment choices within the fund. And not to have been side-tracked by 
the fact the growth percentage looked inflated.
The impact of Avivas mistake was that Mr D couldnt readily tell what the percentage growth 
was on his fund. He said that he didnt check this often. But he had a right to be able to see 
what the overall performance figure was and expect it to be correct. But the fact that it was 
so obviously wrong meant that Mr D never believed the figure he was looking at was his 
actual return. The fund value he could see was always correct. As were the individual fund 
values. Although I can see that Mr D would have been concerned by the indicated 
withdrawals that he knew hed never made from the pension. In this case Mr D suffered no 
financial loss. And it had no impact on the DPMSs ability to effectively manage the 
investments for Mr D. 
Mr D received advice from his IFA in February 2018 regarding a further investment into a 
pension. And the advice he received was to put the additional sum into his Aviva pension. 
The recommendation was to continue investing by using the DMPS. The intention was for 
capital growth in the long term. So Im not convinced that Mr D would have acted 
independently of the financial advice hed received in February 2018 and moved this 
investment if a lower fund growth figure was shown on the online platform. But he was 
inconvenienced by the error. And more so by the fact that it took Aviva too long to rectify 
their mistake.
Aviva have apologised for the mistake. And it offered Mr D £250 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the mistake and time taken to fix it. Which I understand Mr D 
declined. Having considered the impact the mistake had on Mr D, I think that compensation of £250 is in line with what I would recommend in these circumstances. So I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything more than pay the £250 compensation that they already offered.
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman