DRN-1804213
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the overdraft charges that Lloyds Bank Plc applied to her account. 
She wants a proportion of the charges refunding.
What happened
Mrs C opened a bank account with Lloyds in August 2009. She was given an overdraft 
facility and said her limit was increased in increments until it reached £3000 in 2010.
Over the years Mrs C said she incurred overdraft charges and fees on a regular basis, which 
became unaffordable. She said these charges contributed to financial hardship as she had 
to borrow money from other sources, such as payday lenders, to make payments to her 
account.  And, in October 2013, Mrs C entered into a Debt Management Plan (DMP) with a 
debt charity. The DMP included what Mrs C owed Lloyds. In January 2014, Mrs Cs account 
was closed with a debit balance of just over £3000. 
On 23 September 2019 Mrs C complained to Lloyds that the overdraft charges which had 
been applied to her account were unfair and unreasonable. She asked it to refund those 
charges. But Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint because it said the charges and fees were 
in line with the terms of conditions of her bank account and were applied fairly. It did, 
however, offer waive and refund some fees in 2013 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to her complaint Mrs C referred it to our service. As 
Mrs C had complained to Lloyds on 23 September 2019 our investigator reviewed the 
charges applied to Mrs Cs account after 23 September 2013. Having done so they didnt 
think Lloyds had done anything wrong. They said it was entitled to apply the charges it had 
done and that it had acted in line with the account terms and conditions. But Mrs C 
disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs C experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint and I appreciate the reason why shes brought it to our service.
My role is to assess whether I think Lloyds made a mistake, or treated Mrs C unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she and 
Lloyds have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs C will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
The crux of this complaint is whether Lloyds acted unfairly in applying overdraft charges to 
her account. She wants a proportion of the charges refunding. Some of these charges date 
back to 2010. However, Ive already issued a separate decision, which explains why our 
service cant consider any charges that were imposed prior to September 2013.An overdraft is money thats borrowed from the bank. So, its reasonable and usual for the 
bank to charge a fee where a facility like this is used. I realise that Mrs C thinks that the 
charges here were excessive. But as our investigator explained there was a Supreme Court 
ruling in 2009 which means the amount of charges cant be challenged on the grounds 
theyre too high. 
Like our investigator, I can consider whether the charges that were applied to Mrs Cs 
account were applied in line with the terms and conditions of her account. So Ill address 
whether I think they were.
Ive considered what the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs account say about overdraft 
charges and fees. Having done so, Im satisfied that the information Lloyds provided in its 
terms and conditions was clear, transparent and explained in plain and intelligible language. 
The terms clearly outline the fees Lloyds can charge for the use of an overdraft facility. It 
follows that I think Mrs C ought to have known the circumstances in which she would have 
incurred a fee.
Having seen the status of the account, I can see it remained overdrawn from September 
2013 until January 2014, when Mrs Cs account was closed. So, Lloyds was entitled to apply 
overdraft fees for the period where Mrs C was using this facility. Theres no evidence that the 
charges were applied outside of the accounts terms and conditions. So, I cant fairly 
conclude Lloyds did anything wrong in applying these fees to Mrs Cs account.
Mrs C said the fees she incurred added to her financial burden. But, while I sympathise with 
her, theres no evidence she made Lloyds aware that she was experiencing financial 
difficulties while it was applying charges to her account. And I havent seen enough evidence 
to persuade me that Lloyds should have been aware that she was experiencing financial 
hardship from the way in which she was conducting her account.  
Had Lloyds been aware that Mrs C was in financial difficulties, best practice suggests it 
should have treated her positively and sympathetically. But this wouldnt necessarily have 
meant charges would have been waived or refunded. 
I can see Lloyds refunded a number of charges that were applied to Mrs Cs account in 
2013. Id add that this was a gesture of goodwill on Lloyds part. It wasnt obliged to refund 
those fees and its not something that I wouldve told it to do. I say this because I havent 
seen any evidence that these charges werent applied in line with Mrs Cs account terms. In 
refunding a proportion of Mrs Cs charges, Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly towards her. And 
Im not persuaded it could have done any more to assist her afterwards because, in January 
2014, her account was closed. 
Ive considered all the points Mrs C has made and I appreciate the reasons why she brought 
this complaint to our service. But I think Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. So Im not going to ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman