DRN-3132955
The complaint
Mrs F complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) mis-sold her 
a free-standing additional voluntary contributions policy (FSAVC). 
Mrs F is represented in bringing this complaint. But, for ease of reference, all comments and 
actions will be noted as Mrs Fs.
What happened
Mrs F took advice from Prudential around October 1997, primarily about how she might 
generate extra income for her retirement. She was age 54 at the time and was expected to 
retire between the ages of about 60-65. 
Prudential noted that Mrs F had recently become eligible to join the NHS pension scheme 
through her employment and had become a member of that scheme on 1 September 1997. 
Before that, shed been contributing about £160 a month (gross) into a personal pension with 
Prudential. But due to changes in pension legislation, she was no longer able to contribute to 
the personal pension. 
In a handwritten note within a fact find document dated October 1997, the adviser noted 
hed given Mrs F a leaflet explaining the key features of AVCs (which were employer 
schemes) and FSAVCs, and that hed explained the differences in charges. The adviser 
indicated that Mrs F had opted for a Prudential FSAVC because of portability and because 
she had an existing Prudential pension. 
Prudential recommended that Mrs F switched her personal pension into an FSAVC and 
contribute to that plan at a rate of £90 a month over a term of six years. Mrs F accepted 
Prudentials recommendation. It looks like her contributions started around January 1998.
Mrs F complained to Prudential in early 2021 that the advice she received wasnt suitable 
and that the adviser hadnt taken all of the steps shed have expected. 
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. Amongst other things it said:
According to the fact-find, the adviser made Mrs F aware of the in-house AVC 
through her employers scheme and the difference in charges between an AVC and 
FSAVC. The adviser also noted hed given Mrs F a leaflet which also explained the 
key differences between the two options and the differences in charges. And the 
leaflet itself said that the charges for an FSAVC can be more expensive.
Prudential was satisfied it had explained the option of paying into the employers in 
house AVC. It said its advisers could only give advice about Prudential products, so 
couldnt have advised about options to buy added years within the employers 
scheme. And, as Mrs F had recently joined the employers scheme, shed likely have 
been made aware of the option to buy added years via that route. So, Prudential felt 
Mrs F had been given the opportunity to obtain further information about that before 
taking out the FSAVC. 
Mrs F brought the complaint to our service and said that there was no real evidence to 
demonstrate that her attention had been drawn to the in house alternatives in any detail, 
especially the difference in charges between an FSAVC and an AVC. One of our 
investigators looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that overall Mrs F was 
treated fairly by Prudential and was given sufficient information to decide whether shed like 
to proceed with the FSAVC or discuss other options with her employer. 
Mrs F didn't accept the investigators assessment. Amongst other things she said there was 
no evidence of the advisor explaining the likelihood of lower charges within the in house 
AVC. Or the differences, generally, between in house AVCs and an FSAVC. Mrs F didnt 
feel shed been able to make an informed choice. 
As Mrs F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to say at the outset that the adviser wasnt able to actively recommend 
products offered by other providers, including those available within the employers in 
house pension scheme. Thats because, as a tied adviser, employed by Prudential, he 
could only recommend Prudentials products.
Thats not to say that Prudential didnt have other important obligations though. The 
regulator set out a number of responsibilities for tied advisers. Whilst they couldnt actively 
recommend in house options, they would have known they were available and were 
expected to inform the consumer that there were other options, as well as those offered by 
Prudential. Theyd also be expected to refer to their generic benefits. For instance, money 
purchase AVCs often had lower charges than an FSAVC. And its often the case that within 
an in house scheme an employer would match or top up the amount the consumer 
contributed themselves.
The regulator issued an important regulatory update (RU20) in May 1996. This wasnt the 
regulator setting entirely new requirements, it was essentially restating rules that already 
existed. In simple terms the regulator made clear that tied advisers couldnt recommend an 
FSAVC until they had drawn the customers attention to any in house alternatives (enabling 
them to then seek further information from their employer if they wished to), or without 
discussing the generic differences between both schemes. In other words, it wasnt enough 
to simply give the consumer a leaflet. 
And I think this is where the key dispute arises. Mrs F has argued, through her 
representative, that there was insufficient discussion to draw her attention to the general 
differences between the in house scheme and the FSAVC, especially when it came to the 
lower charges applicable to the AVC. In contrast, Prudential feels it met its regulatory 
obligations.  
Where the evidence is contradictory, as it is here, I need to make a decision about what I 
think is most likely to have happened. And after considering the available evidence very 
carefully, on balance, Im satisfied that Prudential did enough to meet the regulators 
expectations. Ill explain why.
Ive been given some, but not all of the documents Id typically expect to see when financial 
advice has been given. For instance, theres a fact-find document within which Prudential 
recorded certain information relating to Mrs Fs personal circumstances together with her 
investment aims. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs F disputed the accuracy of 
what was recorded. But I havent been given a copy of a suitability letter that typically follows 
a fact find. This would generally outline a summary of the discussions that have taken place 
along with any recommendations made. Naturally, the absence of this document makes it 
more difficult to say exactly what happened in Mrs Fs case.
According to what has been noted, the adviser said hed given Mrs F a leaflet explaining the 
differences between an in house AVC and an FSAVC and had explained the differences in charges. Bearing in mind that a fact find is generally a contemporaneous record of what 
happened at the time, it seems more likely than not that some form of discussion took place 
at the time of the advice.
So, Ive thought about what format that discussion is likely to have followed. As it happened 
at the same time that Mrs F was given a leaflet (a copy of which Ive seen) I think its 
reasonable to conclude that the discussion likely covered, in general terms, the differences 
between AVCs and FSAVCs, following a similar format to the leaflet. 
I can see that the leaflet sets out a number of key differences between FSAVC and AVCs 
under a heading Additional Voluntary Contributions  some important features. Those 
include:
Since 1989, any employer who offers an in house occupational pension scheme also has to 
provide an AVC facility, so, if you are a member of your employers pension scheme, you will 
also be eligible to make contributions to the in house AVC facility. Information on any in 
house scheme will be available from your employer or pension scheme trustees.
Alternatively, you may choose to make contributions to a free standing AVC plan (FSAVC). 
Your reasoning for making AVCs is likely to be the same in either case but there are some 
important points to consider before you decide which product to commit yourself to. 
As in house AVC contributions are deducted from your gross pay by your employer and 
sent directly to the AVC provider you automatically receive tax relief at your highest marginal 
rate. Whereas contributions to an FSAVC are sent by you to the provider and so are made 
net only of basic rate tax. You would need to claim back any higher rate tax from the Inland 
Revenue through your annual tax return.
Some employers offer to match a scheme members contributions to an in house AVC with 
extra contributions to the occupational scheme. If this is the case it is unlikely that you would 
be better off with an FSAVC.
Some in house AVC schemes offer additional benefits such as life cover which would require 
extra contributions with an FSAVC. 
So, as Im satisfied that a discussion took place and that its likely to have followed the 
format of the leaflet, I think Prudential would have made Mrs F aware that an in house AVC 
scheme existed. I can also see that, on her application form, when indicating the level of 
contribution she wished to make to the FSAVC, Mrs F appears to have indicated that she 
was aware her employer offered a similar scheme to the one shed chosen to invest in. And, 
as she met with Prudential fairly soon after shed joined her employers pension scheme, it 
seems likely shed also have received information about making additional contributions 
upon joining the scheme. Taking those things together, I think Mrs F would have been aware 
of the existence of an in house option. And, given what the leaflet says, it seems likely to 
me that, during the discussion, Prudential would have told Mrs F she could obtain further 
information from her employer if she wanted it. So, I think it was open to her to seek further 
details if she thought it necessary. Based on what Ive seen here, I think Prudential met at 
least two of the requirements set out in RU20.
The leaflet then goes on to say the following about charges:
It is difficult to be specific with regard to the differences in costs between AVCs and 
FSAVCs as product structures vary considerably. The cost of running your AVC or FSAVC is 
important as it will affect your final benefits, however you should take into account other 
factors such as the funds you are investing in and the financial strength of your provider to 
be able to select the appropriate investments that make up these funds in the case of with 
profits plans. In many cases the employer bears some, or all of the administrative costs 
whereas in the case of an FSAVC these costs are borne by the customer.
AndDue to the close link between an in house AVC facility and the main occupational pension 
scheme the benefits of both schemes have to be taken at the same time, which is usually 
the normal retirement date of your employers scheme. In the case of an FSAVC you could 
on leaving the main company pension scheme draw your benefits at any time between 50 
and 75, irrespective of when the main scheme benefits are paid.
As Im satisfied Prudential discussed the leaflet, it seems likely it would have said it was 
difficult to explain the actual difference in charges due to the different product structures. But 
it does say quite clearly that in many cases the employer bears some, or all of the 
administrative costs whereas in the case of an FSAVC these costs are borne by the 
customer. So, again, it seems likely that during the discussion, Prudential would have told 
Mrs F that unlike an in house AVC, shed be responsible for meeting the costs associated 
with an FSAVC. And, as the FSAVC attracted costs and the in house AVC didnt, I think 
Mrs F ought to have been aware that the costs associated with the AVC were likely to be 
lower. Overall, I think Prudential did enough to explain the generic differences between the 
in house option and the FSAVC. Mrs F also signed a declaration to say that shed received 
key information about the FSAVC and had been made aware of its risks. And by 
approaching her employer, Mrs F would have had access to more information about its in 
house scheme, including the option to buy added years.
On balance, Im satisfied overall that Prudential met its regulatory obligations under RU20. 
And given her circumstances and needs at the time, I cant say that its advice was 
unsuitable for Mrs F.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman