DRN-1831873
The complaint
Mr Ms unhappy with the valuation CIS General Insurance Limited has made of his car in a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ms policy says CIS will settle the claim by repairing the car or paying him its 
market value at the time of loss. 
Here the engineers report shows the car was extensively damaged and beyond 
economic repair. As a result, I think CIS decision to settle the claim on a total loss 
basis and pay Mr M its market value was reasonable. The market value is the 
amount he couldve sold the car for at a dealership before it was damaged. But that 
sum isnt necessarily the same amount that he bought the car for or the cost to him of 
actually replacing it
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various trade guides valuations and we 
will also look at any other evidence produced including adverts. But I place most 
weight on the values in the main trade guides as theyre based on likely selling prices 
rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices are by their very nature averages and variations in actual figures 
may occur from place to place. Nevertheless, I think its fair and reasonable to use 
them to assess CIS offer. 
In this case CIS valuation of £2,940 is the highest of a number of trade guide 
valuations and above the average of all of them. I therefore think this valuation is fair. 
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling and 
frustration, I think CIS has acted fairly and within the terms of the policy. And I dont 
think I can reasonably require it to increase its valuation as Mr M would like.
Mr M has also raised several other issues about the way CIS has dealt with him, but I 
cannot consider them in this complaint. If he remains unhappy, he will need to 
contact CIS about them in the first instance. 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about CIS General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman