DRN-1678266
The complaint
Ms S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) contacted her about an 
account she wasnt aware of.
What happened
Ms S contacted this service and said shed received a letter from NatWests Debt 
Management department about an account she knew nothing about. She said she had two 
outstanding loans with NatWest but that shed been contacted about a third outstanding 
account which she didnt know existed. She asked to see the account opening paperwork for 
this account and evidence of the debt. 
In relation to the accounts she was aware of, Ms S said these had been merged into one 
account. She said shed been paying off the debt by monthly instalments since around 2009. 
She requested statements from 2009 to date to show payments shed made and the amount 
outstanding. Ms S also said that, in 2012, shed complained to NatWest about payment 
protection insurance (PPI). That complaint was upheld by this service and it was decided 
that she was entitled to some redress. But Ms S said the redress hadnt ever been paid. 
Our investigator put these queries to NatWest, who confirmed that Ms S held three 
accounts: a loan account, an overdrawn current account and a savings account. They said 
all three accounts were with their Recoveries Department, which had amalgamated the 
outstanding loan balance and the overdraft, which they viewed as one debt of around 
£8,900. The savings account was in credit by a small amount, which NatWest transferred to 
the current account where it was offset against the overdrawn balance. To avoid any further 
confusion around the three accounts, NatWest closed the savings account in February 2020, 
leaving just the loan and overdrawn current account in place. These are currently with a 
collections agency (which Ill refer to as Z) which has been appointed by NatWest.
NatWest said they no longer have the original account opening paperwork due to the 
amount of time which has passed. And they no longer hold statements going back to 2009, 
but they said they could provide statements from 2010 onwards. NatWest ordered these for 
Ms S but she didnt receive them, so our investigator sent the transaction lists for the 
accounts to her instead. 
As to the PPI, NatWest confirmed that the redress hadnt been paid. They calculated the 
amount of the redress at around £5,700 and applied this to Ms Ss outstanding debt in 
February 2020. This left an outstanding balance of around £3,100 in total. 
Our investigator didnt think NatWest needed to do anything more, as she thought theyd 
acted fairly. She didnt consider the delay in paying the PPI redress, as thats being looked at 
under a separate complaint reference.  
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. She says NatWest have treated her badly by not paying the PPI redress 
for all this time. And she doesnt think its fair that, now it has been paid, its been offset 
against the outstanding balance. Ms S says she would like to use part of the PPI redress to pay off some of the debt. But she thinks it would be a fair outcome for her to keep the rest 
and for NatWest to write off the remaining balance as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this situation has caused her over several years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Ms S feels very strongly about the time its taken for the PPI redress to be paid. But 
thats being looked at separately under a different complaint reference, so Im not making a 
decision about that here.
In relation to the third account Ms S was contacted about, Ive seen three letters which 
NatWests Debt Management department sent to her in December 2019. They each referred 
to a different account number and said that account had been passed to their new collection 
agent, Z. The letters said that Z would contact Ms S to discuss repayment options. So Ms S 
received three letters about three different accounts and the letters indicated that all three 
accounts had outstanding balances.
Looking at the account numbers on each of the letters, I find that they related to the loan 
account, the overdrawn current account and the savings account respectively. Im satisfied 
that these are all accounts held by Ms S. 
I can understand that the letter about the savings account could have caused some 
confusion. Thats because the account was in credit  yet the letter referred to repayment 
options and appointment of a collections agency. But I dont think the letter caused any 
significant detriment to Ms S.  Thats because NatWest werent actually seeking to recover 
any payments from her in relation to that account. Theyve acknowledged that it was in 
credit. And theyve now moved the balance across to the current account and closed the 
savings account. So there wont be any need to send further letters about this account, and 
further confusion can be avoided.
NatWest dont have the account opening paperwork for Ms Ss accounts, due to the amount 
of time which has passed. But Im satisfied that Ms S held these three accounts at the time 
NatWest wrote to her. From the information available, I note that the loan account was 
opened in 2005 and the current account was opened in 1998. The last approved increase to 
the overdraft limit was in 2007. From the information available, Im satisfied that Ms S was 
aware of the loan and the overdraft.
NatWest have explained that, where a customer owes money on more than one account, 
their Recoveries department combines the outstanding balances and pursues them as one 
debt. So the loan and the overdraft have been merged in that sense. But NatWest have 
explained that both accounts do still exist separately in order to receive credits. So its 
possible that letters may be sent out (possibly by the collection agents) referring to one or 
both of the original account numbers. Its possible thats caused some confusion here. But 
Im satisfied that the letters Ive seen relate to the loan account, the overdrawn current 
account and the savings account held by Ms S. I havent seen any letters referring to any 
other accounts.
I havent seen the account opening date for the savings account. But theres no suggestion 
of any debt being due in relation to that account - it was in credit and has now been closed. 
When our investigator considered the complaint, NatWest were experiencing some issues 
with their systems which meant they werent able to re-send the statements Ms S has asked for. Im satisfied that theyve recently re-ordered the statements from 2010 onwards with the 
aim of sending them out to Ms S. But NatWest say they cant guarantee theyll be able to 
retrieve the statements. Hopefully they can be sent to Ms S. But in the meantime, shes been 
provided with transaction lists which show payments into the accounts and the outstanding 
balance. I think thats reasonable, so Im not going to direct NatWest to do any more in this 
respect.
The PPI redress has now been offset against the loan and overdraft debt. Ms S is unhappy 
about it being used in this way. But the final decision in the PPI complaint said it was 
reasonable for the payment to be offset against the debt. So, as that issue has already been 
decided by this service, Im not going to look at it again here.
Ms S would like the remainder of the debt to be written off, in order to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience shes experienced. I realise she feels strongly about this. But Im not 
going to ask NatWest to write off the remaining balance. As I explained above, in making this 
decision Im not looking into any delay in paying the PPI redress. And, taking the issues of 
this complaint into account, I havent seen anything which makes me think it would be a fair 
outcome for NatWest to write off the balance, given that Ms S has had the benefit of the 
money the loan and overdraft provided.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman