DRN-2765026
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a mobile phone handset supplied on credit by Tesco Mobile Limited 
was defective, as were its replacements.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs C took out an interest-free credit sale agreement for a mobile phone 
handset. Under the agreement she was to make 36 monthly payments of £21.99. At the 
same time, she took out a separate airtime contract; that is not the subject of the complaint. 
In or about October 2019 Mrs Cs husband contacted Tesco Mobile to say that she was 
having difficulty with the handset. Tesco Mobile agreed to replace the handset with a more 
up-to-date version, as a software update was to be made available shortly. The replacement 
handset was ordered before the first handset was returned. When it was returned, Tesco 
Mobile said it was unable to find any fault with it. 
Initially, it appeared that the replacement handset was working, but in January 2020 Mrs C 
reported that it was no longer functioning as it should. Tesco Mobile offered, and Mrs C 
accepted, one months credit pending the software update. 
Mrs Cs husband contacted Tesco Mobile again in February 2020 to say that the expected 
software had not been received and that the handset was still not functioning properly. 
Tesco Mobile agreed to provide a further replacement  this time from a different 
manufacturer. Again, this was sent to Mrs C before the first replacement handset was 
returned. 
In March 2020 Mr C contacted Tesco Mobile again to say that the speaker on his wifes 
second replacement handset was not working properly. Tesco Mobile said that the first 
replacement had not been returned, so a further replacement could not be provided. When 
the first replacement was returned, the second replacement handset was out of stock, so 
Tesco Mobile provided a more expensive version. When the second replacement was 
returned, Tesco Mobile said it could find no fault with it. 
In May 2020 Mr C again reported that his wife was having difficulty with her handset  the 
third replacement and the fourth in total since November 2018. Tesco Mobile said that the 
handset would need to be returned for inspection and repair or replacement. Mrs C referred 
the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but was not persuaded that any of 
the handsets was defective. She thought that Tesco Mobile had treated Mrs C fairly. Mrs C 
did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there was an implied term in the contract between Mrs 
C and Tesco Mobile that the goods supplied under that contract  that is, the handset  
would be of satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in 
all the circumstances.   
Tesco Mobile says that, when it received the initial handset back, it found no fault with it. I 
accept of course that its own inspection was not independent, but it had already agreed to a 
replacement. It found no fault with any of the replacement handsets either  once they were 
returned. 
Mrs C did not arrange for an independent inspection of any of the handsets. That is 
understandable of course. Since Tesco Mobile agreed to replacements, there was no reason 
for her to do so. It does mean however that the evidence of their condition and functionality 
is less complete than it might otherwise have been. 
In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to make a finding that the initial handset was 
defective at the point of supply. And, since each replacement handset was of a higher 
specification than the previous one (and accordingly more expensive), I would need to make 
a finding too that all three replacements  that is, four handsets in total  were not of 
satisfactory quality. That is not impossible, of course, but I think it most unlikely. And, as I 
say, Tesco Mobiles own investigations did not suggest there was anything wrong with any of 
the handsets that were returned to it.
In the circumstances, I do not believe I can fairly conclude that Tesco Mobile supplied 
handsets that were not of satisfactory quality or that it treated Mrs C unfairly.             
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Tesco Mobile Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman