DRN-3042842
The complaint
Ms D has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)) has dealt with a claim she made under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
Background
In 2015 Ms D entered into an agreement for the supply and installation of a solar panel 
system from a company called Solar & Green.  The system was paid for by a loan arranged 
with BPF.
Under s.75 a finance company can be held responsible for misrepresentations or breaches 
of contract to the same extent as the supplier of goods or services. Solar & Green is no 
longer trading so Ms D has made a claim to BPF.
Ms D made a previous claim to BPF in 2016 about the mis-sale of the system.  That 
complaint was referred to this Service for consideration but was not upheld, and Ms D was 
referred to the insurer which provided the insurance backed guarantee.
In 2019 Ms D made a second complaint raising new concerns.  She explained that the 
system had stopped working and the way it was installed failed to protect from nuisance 
caused by pigeons. 
BPF said it would review the complaint but needed further information from Ms D to do so.  
As the complaint wasnt resolved Ms D referred her concerns to this Service for review.
One of our investigators started looking into the complaint and Ms D provided some of the 
information needed to BPF.  It offered her £250 to compensate for what it acknowledged 
was poor service.  It also made an offer to pay for the replacement of the system inverter 
and review Ms Ds Feed-in Tariff (FiT) statements to calculate whether the system 
performed as promised by Solar & Green.
BPFs offer didnt accept responsibility for the issue Ms D had raised about the pigeons. It 
did obtain quotes for the measures that could be taken to improve the situation  but both 
would cost around £3,000 and be payable by Ms D.
Ms D provided further evidence about what was provided to her by Solar & Green as part of 
the sales process.  The evidence included an email which set out details of the different 
types of guarantee.  Our investigator concluded that the email didnt say anything about 
pigeon proofing measures  and said she couldnt conclude that point had been 
misrepresented. The investigator also considered what was standard industry practice and 
noted pigeon proofing was not commonly included.
Ms D provided BPF with details of her FiT tariff statements and it was able to calculate its 
offer of compensation. It also confirmed that it would reimburse the cost of replacing the 
inverter if Ms D provided evidence of this  but it understood the cost had been £144. It 
remained of the position that it was not liable for the pigeon problems Ms D is experiencing.
Overall, the investigator felt that the offer made by BPF was fair and reasonable and in line 
with what our Service would usually recommend in such complaints.
Ms D didnt accept the offer.  As no agreement could be reached the complaint has now 
been passed to me to review everything afresh and decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator.
For there to be a valid claim under s.75, an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
must exist.  Im satisfied that exists here, and as BPF has accepted the claim I wont expand 
further. The key issue for me to decide is whether the offer made by BPF to resolve Ms Ds 
claim is fair and reasonable.  
Self-funding offer
Ms D says that she was told the financial benefits generated by the solar panel system 
would cover the cost of servicing the loan with BPF and effecting make the system self-
funding.
In the course of our Service dealing with the complaint Ms D has provided copies of her FiT 
statements which enabled BPF to calculate the loss it says she suffered.  That calculation is 
based upon the likely energy savings and FiT income Ms D would receive over the loan 
term, compared to the cost of the loan.  The approach taken by BPF to calculate the loss 
was in line with what our Service would direct in similar complaints.
In 2019 BPF made an offer to pay compensation to Ms D to reflect the loss it had calculated.  
Its offer was to include compensatory interest of 8% simple per year to be added at the date 
of settlement.
Im satisfied this approach is fair and reasonable and puts Ms D in the position she would 
have been in had the system performed as was represented to her by Solar & Green.
Inverter
Ms D had experienced problems with her inverter and had to arrange for it to be replaced.  
BPF agreed to reimburse the costs Ms D had incurred in doing this  and had requested 
proof of those costs.
In early 2020 BPF contacted this Service and explained that it understood Ms D had paid 
£144 by way of contribution towards the cost of the inverter  with most of the cost being 
paid under an Insurance Backed Guarantee. On that basis, it agreed to reimburse Ms D 
without proof of her payment.
Overall, I think what BPF has offered in this regard is fair and reasonable.  If Ms D confirm 
that she paid £144 towards the inverter she just needs to confirm that to BPF and it will 
reimburse her.  But if she says that the cost to her was higher than £144, then she shall 
need to provide proof of that cost to BPF and it should refund that amount to her.
Pigeon-proofingIm aware that a central issue forming part of Ms Ds complaint is the distress shes 
experienced from pigeons nesting on her roof under the solar panels.  She would like BPF to 
do something about this issue.
Ive not seen any evidence to show that Solar & Green had told Ms D that the system would 
include pigeon proofing  so I cant reasonably say there was any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract in that regard.  As a result, Im unable to ask BPF to do anything as it 
doesnt have any responsibility for this issue under s.75.
Im aware that our investigator shared information with Ms D about potential options to deal 
with the pigeons and proofing her solar panels. I wont repeat them here  but I do 
appreciate that they would incur considerable cost for Ms D.
Summary
As explained above, Im satisfied the offer BPF has made to Ms D is fair  but it will need to 
refresh its calculation to the date of settlement if Ms D accepts this decision.
I realise Ms D may be disappointed with my conclusions about the pigeon issues shes 
experienced, but I must assure her that Ive considered everything impartially, afresh and in 
full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ds complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance).
To put things right it should follow the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman