DRN-2281952
The complaint
Miss C feels TSB Bank plc (TSB) used unclear wording on its credit card statements about 
interest free periods, and this led to her paying interest unfairly.
Miss C was charged interest that she would like refunded.
What happened
Miss C found the wording in her credit card statements about how the interest free period 
worked on her credit card account unclear and was charged interest that she was not 
expecting as a result.
She complained to TSB who felt that the wording was clear and that it hadnt done anything 
wrong.
Miss C brought her case to this service. Our investigator felt the wording in TSBs literature 
was clear and that TSB had dealt with Miss Cs account in line with its terms and conditions, 
and the wording on the credit card statement.
Miss C was unhappy with this, and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C feels that the wording on TSBs credit card statements is unclear, so she didnt 
understand the payments she needed to make to avoid paying interest. As a result, she paid 
£44.15 in interest.
I understand that this can be difficult to understand and have looked at the wording and 
information on the statements to see if they make things clear.
I can see that on the front of the statement it has a section that outlines your next months 
estimated interest should you only pay the minimum payment. The account information 
section on the statement shows the interest rate that is charged on different types of 
transactions. The statements show the account balance, and the due date for payment on 
the first page.
The key explanation is set out in the summary box section. This gives two important pieces 
of information.
Maximum 56 days for purchases if you pay the full balance on your previous and current 
statement on time
 You will not pay interest on new purchases if you pay the full balance shown on your 
previous and current statement on time.
Miss C says she thought this meant that she had 56 days from the date of a purchase to 
make payment and avoid paying interest.
While I can understand that Miss C focused on the reference to 56 days, in my view its clear 
that this is a maximum period and not a fixed period. And that it requires payment of the full 
balance on the previous and current statement on time. Essentially, Miss C would have to 
clear the full balance on her credit card each month in order to avoid being charged interest 
on her purchases. I think the statement shows the information needed to work out what 
needs to be paid, and by when, so as to avoid interest charges.
 
Miss C mentions that she wasnt sure when or if she would be paid by her employer as a 
result of the pandemic, and that this was another reason that she didnt pay earlier. While I 
understand that Covid has caused uncertainty in many ways, if Miss C thought she might 
face difficulties she could have contacted TSB early on to explain her situation.  That said, 
this wouldnt necessarily have prevented any interest charges accruing. So, while I can 
appreciate the factors that led Miss C to delay making payment, I dont consider they 
indicate any unfairness on TSBs part.
Taking all of this into account, I wont be asking TSB to refund the interest charged.
I understand that Miss C will be disappointed by this and feels that the information isnt clear. 
Miss C has suggested that a calculator would be helpful. While customers suggestions can 
be helpful, I cant tell TSB to do this, but mention it so that they can consider it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman