DRN-3968972
The complaint
Miss H complains that Marsh Finance Ltd irresponsibly approved a hire purchase agreement 
that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In October 2016 Miss H took out a hire purchase agreement with Marsh to finance the 
purchase of a used car. The agreement was for £11,465 over five years, with monthly 
repayments of £188 over 59 months and a final monthly payment of £198.
Miss H said she could never afford the agreement. She said she had a lot of doorstep and 
payday loans at the time she entered into the agreement. She said the car dealer told her to 
give false figures so that shed get the finance.
Marsh said theyd reviewed Miss Hs credit file and pay slips at the time of the application. 
They said theyd calculated that Miss Hs monthly net pay at the time was approximately 
£1,130. They said that at the time they considered the lending to be affordable if the monthly 
payment was less than 21% of the net income. They calculated 21% to be £237, and 
because the monthly payments were £188, they said the lending was affordable.
They said they hadnt relied on the information supplied via the dealer when making the 
assessment. They said theyd relied on the information obtained from Miss Hs credit file and 
her pay statements when deciding the lending was affordable.
Miss H said the pay statement shed supplied, and that Marsh had relied on, was for a 
seasonal job from March to October each year. She said this pay statement included 
overtime that she didnt always get, and holiday pay as it was her final pay for that season.
Unhappy with Marshs response, Miss H brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He felt that the checks Marsh did to assess 
whether or not the agreement was affordable were not sufficient. He said Marsh shouldve 
found out more about Miss Hs actual expenditure. 
He said that if they had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks they would most 
likely have found that the repayment was affordable. He based this on the information 
obtained from Miss Hs bank statements from the time of application and her credit report.
He said that Miss H has stated that she had a number of doorstep loans and payday loans in 
place at the time. Our investigator said that these werent visible on the bank statements and 
werent recorded on the credit file. And because Miss H hadnt declared them he couldnt 
say that Marsh had done anything wrong by agreeing to provide the finance. 
He was also satisfied that Marsh had acted fairly because it had confirmed with Miss H in 
writing and in a telephone call that she understood the terms of the agreement and that it 
was affordable.
Miss H disagreed, and the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss H was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Marsh lent to Miss H. It 
required Marsh to lend responsibly. Its rules and guidance are found in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), available online. The rules required them to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
The rules dont set out what Marsh needed to do to carry out an appropriate assessment or 
how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. Whats proportionate would 
depend on a number of factors including the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation  amongst other factors.
The rules require their checks to be borrower-focussed. Its not an assessment of the risk to 
Marsh of them not getting their money back: its the risk to the borrower, in this case Miss H 
of getting into financial difficulty as a result of the decision to lend.
When considering Miss Hs complaint, I have considered the following questions:
did Marsh complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss 
Hs application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the agreement in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Reasonable and proportionate checks 
Marsh said that they considered a credit report, a recent pay statement provided by Miss H, 
and a bank statement. Having reviewed this information, they said they made a decision to 
lend as it showed that Miss H had sufficient disposable income.
But Id have expected them to consider Miss Hs outgoings. I say this because she was 
making a significant commitment. She was entering into a five year agreement, requiring her 
to pay £188 every month. I also note that the credit report showed two active loans  but 
there was nothing to show how much her payments on these loans were.I think Marsh should have sought further information about the impact of these existing 
financial commitments on Miss Hs disposable income, and her living costs, to confirm 
whether or not she could have taken on this financial commitment, for a five year period.
So Im not satisfied that Marsh carried out a proportionate affordability check.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss H would have been able 
to sustainably repay the agreement?
I cant say what information and evidence Marsh would have asked for or received 
had they carried out a reasonable and proportionate affordability assessment. However, as I 
have said above, I do think they should have asked Miss H more about her expenditure.
So Ive considered what I think they would likely have discovered had they done so.
Miss H has provided us with bank statements from 2016. This gives me a brief 
summary of her income and her committed monthly expenditure, and provides the type of 
information that Marsh would likely have discovered had they carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks.
The statement shows income from Miss Hs employer. This matches the information Marsh 
used when they considered her application.
The statements also show outgoings to two lenders  these are for £30 and £10 per month. 
So, based on this information, I think it would have been reasonable for Marsh to make the 
decision to lend to Miss H.
The statements dont show any living expenses. Miss H told Marsh she was living with her 
parents, so it would have been reasonable for them to accept this was the case. The bank 
statements dont show any payments towards rent or a mortgage. They do show irregular 
payments to what looks like her parents. But they are irregular, so I wouldnt have expected 
Marsh to deduct living costs from the disposable income.
The statements do not show any payments to any other lenders. Miss H said that she had 
loans with several doorstep lenders. These are also not listed on the credit report that Marsh 
obtained. Miss H said she paid the lenders in cash and thats why they dont appear on her 
bank statements.
I think if Marsh had asked for further information such as bank statements this would not 
have changed their lending decision as the loans Miss H has told us about would not have 
been visible to them.
And as part of the lending process they asked Miss H to confirm her circumstances, 
including whether or not the lending was affordable. This was done on a form, and also in a 
telephone call. I think it would have been reasonable to expect Miss H to declare the 
existence of the other loans to Marsh at this time, if not before. And if she had, they could 
have reviewed the lending decision.
For a number of reasons, including the passage of time, Miss H has been unable to provide 
information about the existence and costs of these loans. So Im unable to say what impact 
they would have had on Marshs lending decision.
Ive not seen any reason why Marsh ought to have been aware of the existence of these 
loans, or that Miss H was at that time reliant on doorstep lending. So I think it was 
reasonable for them to conclude that the lending was affordable.Did Marsh act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss H also tells us that her employment was seasonal, and this affected her income. But as 
before, she didnt tell Marsh this was the case. So its not reasonable to expect them to have 
taken that into account.
Miss H said that the dealer told her to provide false information in order to have the finance 
approved. I cant comment on that  but it appears to me that Marsh fairly relied on 
information provided by Miss H, and where possible verified by bank statements and a credit 
report, so Im satisfied the dealers encouragement didnt affect the decision to lend.
So for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that had Marsh completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks, its likely they would still have concluded the 
agreement was affordable. So I dont think they need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman