DRN-4251195
The complaint
Mrs B says Revolut Ltd (Revolut), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to an 
impersonation scam. She says Revolut should reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below. 
In summary, Mrs B fell victim to an impersonation scam. She was contacted by someone 
whom she believed to work for HMRC. Mrs B was sadly duped into making the following 
payments as a result of the scam:
Date Type of transfer Amount
14/02/2023 Faster payment £1,910
14/02/2023 Faster payment £320
Mrs B realised she had been the victim of a scam and reported the matter to Revolut through 
its live chat to see if her funds could be reimbursed or recovered. Ultimately Revolut didnt 
consider it was liable for the losses Mrs B incurred and advised it wasnt able to recover any 
of the funds.
 
Unhappy, Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. Our Investigator reviewed the matter 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They were satisfied Mrs B had authorised 
the transfers and they didnt think Revolut ought to have done more to identify the payments 
as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. They didnt consider Revolut ought to have 
had a cause for concern that Mrs B was potentially at risk of financial harm, or that she was 
falling victim to a scam to an extent that it ought to have intervened and questioned her 
further about the transfers. 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, Revolut explained that the receiving account (the 
account where the funds had been sent to) while a Revolut account, it was based outside of 
the United Kingdom, so it had no powers to demand that any funds be returned. But it also 
evidenced that it had received a response from the beneficiary bank advising that no funds 
remained that could be recovered aside from £0.03p. Our Investigator considered there 
wasnt anything further that Revolut could do to recover the funds.
Mrs B disagreed with the Investigators opinion and thought more should have been done by 
Revolut to prevent her losses. 
As Mrs B disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Revolut should have done more to prevent Mrs Bs losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Revoluts actions, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Mrs B was a victim to a cruel scam. But 
in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Revolut should reimburse her. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
Here, Mrs B carried out the bank transfers herself from her Revolut account. So it is the case 
that Mrs B authorised all the transfers that are in dispute. And under the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that means Mrs B is 
responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mrs B was the unfortunate victim 
of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a Firm to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, Firms like Revolut have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs B when she made the transfers, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I cant fairly say that any of the transfers 
Mrs B made in relation to the scam would (or should) have alerted Revolut that Mrs B was at 
risk of financial harm, to an extent whereby it should have carried out some additional 
checks beyond what it did, before processing the transfers. So I dont consider Revolut are 
liable for the losses Mrs B incurred. Ill explain why.
I have to be mindful that banks / payment service providers process a high volume of 
transfers and transactions each day. And Firms have to strike a balance as to when it should 
possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. I 
dont consider there is anything unusual or remarkable about the transfers or the amounts 
that ought to have alerted Revolut to the possibility Mrs B was being scammed or was at risk 
of financial harm.
Overall, I dont think there were grounds for Revolut to be suspicious Mrs B may be a victim 
of fraud when she made the transfers to such an extent where I would expect them to 
intervene and carry out some additional checks or question her further about the transfers. 
So I cant fairly say Revolut could have prevented her losses or is liable in some way. 
Recovery of the funds
Revolut advised that the receiving account (the account where the funds were sent to) was 
based abroad. Revolut didnt have the powers to seek any recovery. However it was 
provided with evidence to show that the funds Mrs B sent had unfortunately already been 
moved on barring £0.03p. So there wasnt anything further Revolut could have done to help 
Mrs B recover her funds. 
In summary, while I appreciate Mrs Bs been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think 
Revoluts decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because Revolut followed Mrs Bs instructions to make the 
transfers and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, 
there wasnt anything further Revolut could do to help Mrs B recover her funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman