DRN-1999083
The complaint
Miss I complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed her account after she made a claim for the 
refund of transactions which she disputed having made. 
What happened
Miss I had an account with Monzo, which she could operate through a mobile banking app. 
She says that she left her phone in a taxi. It was returned to her but while it was missing 
someone had used it to transfer money from her Monzo account through PayPal  using the 
PayPal app which she also had installed on her phone.
Miss I asked both Monzo and PayPal to look into what had happened. Monzo thought the 
evidence indicated that Miss I had made the payments herself or allowed someone else to 
do so and so wouldnt refund them. PayPal however did agree to a refund. 
Monzo then said that it thought Miss I had made a false claim and that it would close her 
account. It gave her two months notice that it would be doing so.
Miss I thought that was unfair. The fact that she had been reimbursed by PayPal showed 
that her claim had been genuine. She said her passport had expired and so it would be 
difficult for her to open another account. She referred the matter to this service, where one of 
our investigators considered it. 
Our investigator noted that Monzo was entitled to close the account and that it had given 
proper notice of its intention to do so. She didnt think therefore that Monzo had treated Miss 
I unfairly. Miss I didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reviewing Miss Is complaint, I havent reached any conclusions about the transactions 
she disputed. I dont believe I need to do so, since theyve been refunded in any event  
albeit by PayPal rather than by Monzo. 
Its generally for financial businesses to decide whether or not to provide, or to continue to 
provide, financial services such as bank accounts to customers. In the case of bank 
accounts, both the customer and the bank are generally able to end the relationship. Banks 
wishing to end a relationship must generally give reasonable notice, unless there are factors 
such as fraud at play. The terms of Monzos account say that it can close an account on 
giving its customer two months notice, and it did that in Miss Is case. 
Its clear that Monzo didnt believe that Miss Is claim was a genuine one, and that this 
triggered its decision to close her account. But it was entitled to close her account, whether 
or not the claim was genuine. In my view, the decision to do so was a legitimate one for 
Monzo to take and it isnt one that I can properly say was unfair.
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything 
more to resolve Miss Is complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss I to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman