DRN-3944546
The complaint
A (a company), represented by one of its directors Mr W, complains that Wise Payments 
Limited (Wise) wont refund money lost when it fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, which 
I will go on to explain. Before I do so, I want to acknowledge that I understand my decision 
will be disappointing to Mr W. But based on the evidence, I am not persuaded that Wise 
ought to refund the disputed transaction on the account due to the following reasons:
Wise has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments made. One of the 
reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. It needs to ensure it has systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or signs that might indicate its customers 
are at risk of fraud. So, in the individual circumstances of this case, Ive considered 
whether Wise should have deemed this payment as being so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that it ought to have given wise sufficient grounds for suspecting 
fraud.
Having done so, I am not persuaded it was. I say this because I have reviewed As 
statements. I can see payments made of a similar nature in the previous months 
ranging from 30,588.66 EUR to 35,096.08EUR; and there were regular payments 
made overseas on the account. I have also considered that the disputed transaction 
did not drain the account of its available balance. So, I am not persuaded that the 
disputed transaction represented a sudden change in the way the account was 
operated by A. In turn, I dont consider it was wholly unreasonable that Wises fraud 
detection measures werent triggered.
The disputed transaction was sent to a new payee, and Mr W believes this ought to 
have been enough for Wise to have been alerted. So, I have considered, if this alone 
was enough to trigger Wises fraud detection measures.
Having done so, I am not satisfied it does. I say this because, I have considered the 
fundamental purpose of this account. As this is a business account, I think it is 
reasonable to conclude that new payees will be created when economic factors 
warrant it to do so, such as suppliers offering competitive prices. So, this alone, is not 
enough to persuade me that Wises fraud detection measures ought to have been 
triggered.
I would like to point out that I really do appreciate the impact this issue has had on 
Mr W while representing A. But in reaching my decision in this case, I have to put 
aside my natural feelings of empathy and consider the case impartially and fairly, 
based on the available evidence. And it would only be fair for me to direct Wise to 
refund the loss if I thought it was responsible  and Im not persuaded thats the 
case.
Given the above, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Wise liable in these circumstances. 
Therefore, I wont be asking Wise to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman