DRN-3623806
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain about LV in relation to work carried out by LVs appointed 
contractor. They want LV to replace the work and to pay them compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs J and Mr J hold home insurance with LV.
In late 2019, Mrs J and Mr J suffered an escape of water at their home. This was an overflow 
on the first floor which caused extensive damage to the floor and walls of the rooms below.
They submitted a claim to LV.
LV handled their claim and appointed one of its contractors, G, to carry out repair works at 
their home.
These commenced in early 2020 and included replacement of the tiled kitchen floor.
Mrs J and Mr J decided to amend the repairs and they contracted directly with G to install an 
under-floor heating system in the kitchen, and then to place a tiled floor on top.
The floor work was undertaken around March 2020.
Around August 2020, Mrs J and Mr J noticed that some tiles had become loose and the 
grout in places had begun to crack. They contacted G.
G attended their home and repaired or replaced some tiles and grout.
They then noticed further tiles popping and becoming loose and damaged in autumn of 
2020. G advised them that it had laid the under-floor heating in line with the manufacturers 
instructions and that the tiled floor had been properly laid.
G offered to repair some further snagging works but declined responsibility for the issues 
which were manifesting with the flooring.
Mrs J and Mr J contacted LV. They thought that LV was responsible for the work done by G, 
as this had been commissioned as a result of the escape of water.
LV responded and did not uphold their claim. LV offered to have snagging repairs and 
outstanding works completed, or cash settled in the alternative, but said that it could not 
comment on the flooring works, which were privately agreed between Mrs J and Mr J and 
the contractor.
Mrs J and Mr J were not happy and contacted us.
Our investigator has looked into this matter and recommended that the complaint be upheld.
She considered that the available evidence suggested that there had been a problem in the 
way the underflooring had been installed, or in the materials used by the contractor in the 
tiled flooring. She therefore thought that the work fell within the responsibility of LV, as they 
instructed the contractor in relation to the flooring.
LV did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I previously issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint in June 2022. In that 
provisional decision I explained that I did not consider that LV was responsible for the issues 
that had developed in the floor, because the specification was changed. This meant that the 
agreement was now a direct relationship between Mr J and Mrs J and the contractor. I 
considered that LV retained responsibility for resolving the snagging issues, but that the 
issues with the tiles floor needed to be resolved between Mr and Mrs J and the contractor. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
LV has not provided any comments in response. 
Mr J and Mrs J have responded, expressing disappointment at my provisional decision and 
asking how the outstanding snagging issues which LV is responsible for should be resolved. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no arguments against the reasoning of my provisional decision have been received, I 
remain of that view and adopt my provisional decision and reasoning as my final decision.
In response to Mr J and Mrs Js question about snagging, I ask LV to make sure that it 
contacts Mr J and Mrs J within 14 days of this decision to ensure that it addresses the 
outstanding snagging issues, or settles these appropriately. 
I wish Mr J and Mrs J all the best in resolving the kitchen floor issues directly with G. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr J and Mrs 
Js complaint and do not ask Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do anything 
further in respect of the kitchen floor. 
I ask that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited make contact with Mr J and Mrs J 
within 14 days to ensure that the snagging issues, which LV is responsible for, are resolved 
as quickly as possible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman