DRN-3613937
The complaint
Mr B complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly rejected his Direct Debit 
Indemnity claim.
What happened
Mr B contacted Barclays in October 2021 to make a Direct Debit (DD) Indemnity claim under 
the DD Guarantee scheme. He claimed that an error had been made when setting up a DD 
in favour of Company A in June 2017. Mr B says there is no signed mandate giving 
Barclays authority to set up the payment, that he was never given notice that the DD 
instruction was set up, and he wasnt given a schedule of payments that would debit his 
account. 
Barclays reviewed Mr Bs claim and, on the evidence provided, they rejected Mr Bs request 
for a refund under the DD guarantee scheme. Barclays didnt believe there was valid 
grounds for a claim under the scheme as the claim seemed to be a contractual dispute with 
the originator, Company A. 
Unhappy with Barclays decision Mr B referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered Mr Bs complaint but he didnt think Barclays had treated Mr B 
unfairly by rejecting his claim. Based on the evidence hed seen and in the absence of 
supporting evidence from Mr B, he found that Barclays hadnt made an error in accepting the 
DD mandate from the originators. The investigator advised Mr B to contact Company A to 
pursue the matter further.
Mr B rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision as he disputed the 
existence of the DD mandate, or that there was an agreement signed by him. So, the case 
has been passed to me to consider
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made some legal arguments when presenting his case to our service. We were set 
up as an informal and free alternative to the courts and, while we have regard for the law, we 
resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case.
Mr B has said that Barclays has made an error when setting up the DD in favour of 
Company A. So, I think it would be helpful if I first explain how a DD is set up.
To set up a DD, customers have to give the DD originator  in this case Company A, 
authority to claim funds from their bank account. So here, its Company A that sets up the 
DD not Barclays. And Barclays has provided evidence that the mandate was set up by 
Company A using the AUDDIS system (Automated Direct Debit Instruction Service) in June 
2017. Then its the originator  Company A, that claims the DD from the customers bank 
account. So, Im satisfied that Barclays isnt responsible for setting up the DD.
Because DDs are set up using an automated system (as set out above), a DD Guarantee 
forms part of the agreement when a customer agrees to making payments using this 
method. On the DD website, the guarantee explains that: 
The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare event that 
there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a payment is taken on the 
incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation.
This means if the originator makes a mistake with the amount claimed or the date its 
claimed, the customer can ask their bank to evoke the DD guarantee. And they do this by 
providing a refund of the DD. 
But, in Mr Bs case, prior to Mr B cancelling the DD and contacting Barclays to make the DD 
Indemnity claim in October 2021, Barclays has shown that the DD was claimed by              
Company A on 37 occasions since 2017. And Mr B hasnt questioned the amount or the date 
of the DD. Rather he is saying that he didnt sign a DD mandate and didnt enter an 
agreement with Company A. And that Barclays hasnt been able to provide a copy of a DD 
mandate with a wet signature. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said. But I wouldnt expect Barclays to have a copy of the 
signed mandate, Id expect this document to be held by the originator, Company A.  
Similarly, it was Company As responsibility to provide Mr B with a schedule of payments. 
As Ive found that its the originator who would hold the mandate, and because Mr B is 
disputing that he had a contract with Company A  for which he paid Company A for over 
three years, Im satisfied that Mr Bs claim is a dispute between him and Company A. Mr Bs 
claim isnt a dispute about the mechanics of processing a DD payment, which is what the DD 
guarantee covers.
Mr B says Barclays has discriminated against him by not providing him with an immediate 
refund or upholding his DD indemnity claim. Its not our role to consider if Barclays breached 
the Equality Act 2010  thats a matter for the courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including
relevant law and what we consider to be good industry practice at the time. So, although its 
for the Courts to say whether or not Barclays have breached the Equality Act 2010, were 
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Our investigator asked Mr B to clarify how he felt hed been discriminated against, the 
grounds on which he felt discriminated against and how it made him feel. Mr B has been 
clear on how it has made him feel but hasnt clarified which grounds he felt discriminated 
against. But from reading his correspondence, I feel its an overwhelming feeling of him 
being treated unfairly. With that in mind Ive considered what the bank has done, their policy 
and how it may have treated another customer in the same circumstances. Having done so, 
Im satisfied Barclays followed their processes fairly and that any other customers in the 
same circumstances wouldve been treated the same. As such, I cant conclude Barclays 
has treated Mr B unfairly. Overall, Im satisfied Barclays have treated Mr B fairly. I know Mr B will be disappointed, but 
Im not going to ask Barclays to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman