DRN-3864943
The complaint
Ms P complains that charges on her Stakeholder Pension Plan with Standard Life Assurance 
Ltd (Standard Life) have increased without prior notification which has negatively impacted 
her fund value.
What happened
In November 2007, Ms P joined the group stakeholder pension available via her employer 
and made regular payments which were invested in the BGI Global Equity 50:50 Index Fund. 
In July 2008 she transferred in Post 97 protected rights benefits from a previous employers 
group scheme. She transferred in benefits from a Prudential pension in 2010 which was 
invested in the SL BlackRock Aquila HP (50:50) Global Equity Pension Fund. This transfer 
was a mixture of Pre 97 and Post 97 Protected rights benefits. On each occasion Ms P was 
provided with documentation explaining the details of the pension, which included the 
charges. It outlined the maximum charges that could be applicable, and explained that 
charges could change in the future.
In 2013, Ms P left her employer, but retained her stakeholder pension.
In September 2021, Ms P carried out a fund switch to three funds, the SL Ethical Pension 
fund, the SL Global Equity (50:50 tracker fund) and the SL Money Market fund. It is unclear 
what prompted her to do this. A pop up was displayed which indicated that the charges 
applicable may be different. It stated Depending on which funds you switch out of and in to, 
different charges may apply. For further information on specific charges, please contact us.  
There is no evidence of Ms P contacting Standard Life at that time.
In July 2022, Ms P discovered that the new funds she had switched to did not receive the 
scheme discount she had been receiving, and the charges were higher. 
Ms P complained to Standard Life that she was unhappy with the level of charges that were 
applied to her stakeholder pension. She believes that the investment documentation for the 
scheme is misleading and she was not aware that the discount did not apply to all funds. 
Standard Life did not agree that Ms P was not made aware that not all funds received the 
same discount, and rejected her complaint. 
Ms P was not happy with this and referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. The investigator did not uphold the complaint. Having considered the evidence, he 
agreed that although he could understand how Ms P had reached the conclusion she had, 
he believed that Standard Life were clear in explaining that different funds had different 
charges, and the popup warning that was presented online was clear and said Ms P could 
contact them to ask any questions relating to the charges.
Ms P did not agree with these findings and therefore the complaint has been referred to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the documentation available to me, I do not believe that the information 
provided indicated that Ms P would always benefit from a fund discount, and do not uphold 
the complaint. 
I have considered whether Ms P should reasonably have been aware that the fund charges 
for her pension could have increased. In doing this, I have reviewed the documentation 
issued to her at the time she took out her employers Stakeholder Pension plan, and the 
subsequent information provided.
As stated above, Ms P joined her employers Stakeholder Pension Plan with Standard Life 
and made two transfers into the plan. 
She was provided with an investment choices booklet at the outset, which set out the 
investment options available, along with details of the discount. It is relevant to note that 
page three of the document states your employer has negotiated enhanced terms, 
indicating that the enhanced terms would apply whilst in employment with the same 
company. The same page further states that charges are not guaranteed and may be altered 
in the future, although would not exceed the maximum charge that can be applied to a 
stakeholder plan. I believe that this is clear in its intention to make customers aware that the 
charges applicable to the plan could increase.
Page four of the same document outlined the funds available to you are listed below and 
detailed four funds and one portfolio. Whilst I acknowledge that the previous page had stated 
the maximum number of funds that could be held at any one time is 12, and 20 during the 
time of the plan, I think it is clear that the document drew a distinction between the funds 
available within the plan generically and the funds available to members of the employers 
version of the plan (attracting a discount).
Page five refers to the lifestyle product that your employer has selected, supporting the fact 
that there was a limited range available to employees, and that not all funds could be 
expected to attract a discount.
I note that the fund initially selected for the plan was the BGI Global Equity 50:50 Index 
Fund, one of the list of funds available with the discount.
A Key Features document was issued to Ms P, which indicates in a number of places that 
the charges may change in the future. For example, it states on page two that a reason for 
the pension being lower than illustrated could be our charges increase in the future. Page 
six states your employer has selected a range of funds for you to choose from. Page seven 
encourages the investor to speak to an adviser or Standard Life office for more information 
about funds and page eight states we can increase the charges we make but again 
confirms it cannot go above the stakeholder limits.
In July 2008, Standard Life sent a letter confirming the transfer in of the fund from Ms Ps 
previous employer. Within that letter, at page seven, it states you may not have access to 
our full range of funds. Page ten of the document provided alongside this letter, at section 
nine states you may only choose from the funds that we make available to you under this 
policy. The same document reiterates the point made in the other documentation that 
management charges may increase. It also states that special terms may be removed or 
reduced if the criteria are not met. On balance, I think it is evident that whilst the generic documentation did state that up to 
twelve funds could be held at any one time, it was clear that this was limited by the actual 
fund range available to Ms P as an employee with benefits in the Group Stakeholder Plan.
Following Ms P leaving the group scheme in 2013, this fund range was no longer limited, 
and the full range was available, however the criteria for the discount (ie being an employee) 
was no longer being met.
I cannot find any evidence to indicate that Ms P was told that the discount would apply to her 
funds indefinitely, nor that the discounts applied to the full fund range.
Standard Life have stated that when Ms P switched her funds in September 2021, a pop up 
warning during the online journey stated Depending on which funds you switch out of and in 
to, different charges may apply. For further information on specific charges, please contact 
us.  Ms P states that this was irrelevant as she would check the investment document 
that confirms all funds receive the discount. 
I have considered whether it is reasonable to rely on this and am not persuaded that it is. 
The investment document containing the statement to which Ms P refers was issued in 
2007. Notwithstanding the fact that I have come to the conclusion above that I do not believe 
the documentation leads a customer to believe that the discounts apply to all funds 
indefinitely, I have considered the date of the document. This was issued almost 14 years 
prior to the fund switch in September 2021, during which time Ms Ps circumstances as they 
affected her stakeholder pension had changed, as she was no longer with the same 
employer and therefore no longer part of the group scheme. Given the time period that had 
elapsed, and the changes to Ms Ps employment, I do not think it is reasonable to consider 
that there would be no changes to the fund charges applicable.
Taking into account the above, I do not believe that the information provided to Ms P was 
misleading, nor that she was led to believe that the discount to the fund charges would 
remain in place indefinitely.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman