DRN-3952547
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In September 2018, Mr S purchased a solar panel system including battery (the system) 
from a company which Ill call P. He financed it through a 10-year fixed sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook. 
In October 2021, the CMC made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. The 
CMC said that P had made the following misrepresentations that had induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract:
The system would more than pay for itself and would make a profit.
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr S or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service to make a complaint about 
Shawbrooks response. Shawbrook issued a final response saying it through it had dealt with 
the claim appropriately.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr S and so Shawbrooks response had been reasonable.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mr S was led to believe the return would be greater than it was.
The inflation rates used were higher than they shouldve been. 
The benefits of the system are much less than shown in the quote. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states, A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. So, Shawbrook must have 
treated Mr S fairly when it declined his claim. 
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would pay for itself and 
that he would make a profit.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and quote. Ive considered these, along with Mr Ss 
testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to 
have happened. 
The quote
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Ss version 
of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement
The credit agreement sets out the cash price, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.On balance Im satisfied that Mr S was told that the cost of the system was £8,500.00, the 
monthly payment was £101.41, the total amount of credit was £8,400.00 and the total 
amount payable would be £12,289.20.
Overall, Im satisfied that P made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,500.00, 
it would cost Mr S more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing 
loan. 
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments
The quote shows the estimated FIT payments in year one as follows:
I think it is clear from this that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of 
£80.83 plus £53.88, which is £134.71. This would be an average monthly income of £11.22. 
This is less than the monthly loan repayment of £101.41. I think these figures wouldve been 
discussed with Mr S, so Im not able to conclude that the Mr S was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
I can also see that in 2019 Mr S received £138.11 in FIT payments. So, the estimated FIT 
income in year one was accurate. 
Electricity savings
The quote also shows the estimated electricity savings Mr S could expect from the system. 
These derive from electricity used as it is generated by the solar panels and the battery 
trading electricity with the grid. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £240.17 from the solar panels only and £98.03 
in total from the battery. The combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£472.91. 
This assumes a self-consumption rate of 75%. This is the amount of electricity generated by 
the solar panels that P assumed Mr S could use as it is generated. My understanding is that 
P tailored this figure to each customer based on what it knew about their home and how they 
used electricity. 
Ps methods were checked by an industry body. So, at the time, I think it was reasonable for 
P to use this self-consumption rate. Mr S may not have achieved these savings, but given 
they depend on how he uses electricity I do not think that constitutes a misrepresentation on 
the part of P. 
Repayments
Theres a section in the quote with tables showing repayments over various loan terms. Ive 
focused on the table for 120 months because this is the length of the loan that Mr S entered 
into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of 
£100.15 (slightly less than the actual monthly repayment due to the initial repayment being 
deferred). 
For each year of the 10-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the illustrative monthly loan 
repayment of £100.15 to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think this clearly shows that average monthly returns would be less than the loan monthly 
repayment throughout the loan term. 
Profit
Based on my findings so far, Mr S was not told that the system would be self-funding 
immediately or within the loan term. But I think that he was told that the system would be 
profitable over a certain duration of time. 
The quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows that by the end 
of year 18 the overall benefits that Mr S was estimated to receive would exceed the total 
amount payable under the loan agreement, after which Mr S would continue to receive FIT 
payments for two more years, and savings ongoing. Hence, the system would have paid for 
itself and made a profit.  
The estimated benefits over the years are calculated using assumed inflation rates for 
electricity prices and FIT unit rates. P explained in the quote what assumptions had been 
used and what historical data that was based on. The quote also contained warnings that 
actual inflation may differ, and savings will depend on how Mr S uses electricity in his home. 
The benefits were not guaranteed. 
Inflation rates have not matched those used in the quote by the time the claim was made. 
But I dont think that is a misrepresentation. 
The CMC says P shouldve based its assumptions on historical inflation rates from different, 
more recent, years  since this wouldve resulted in lower inflation rates being used and the 
estimated benefits being lower. Had that happened, I still think that Mr S wouldve purchased 
the system and been unhappy with the benefits of the system. 
In any case, P was clear about the inflation rates used and where they came from, so Mr S 
could see this. I dont think those assumptions were unreasonable. And the quote warned 
that actual inflation rates could differ from the assumptions used. Inflation is currently higher 
than the rates used by P in the quote and Mr S is still likely to make a profit from the system 
overall.
Generation of the solar panels
I have looked at Mr Ss FIT statements and Im satisfied that the system is generating 
electricity as expected based on the statements provided, when allowing for a reasonable 
margin of error in Ps calculations.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system. As such, I dont think it was unreasonable of Shawbrook to 
reject Mr Ss claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman