DRN-4271093
The complaint
Miss B complains that Pepper (UK) Limited, trading as Engage Credit, added legal fees to 
her mortgage, plus interest on those fees, because she made a complaint. 
What happened
Miss B has a mortgage which is administered by Engage. In October 2020, through a law 
firm, Miss B made a complaint to Engage about the interest rate she had been charged on 
the mortgage. 
Engage issued its final response on 11 January 2021. It didnt uphold the complaint, and the 
law firm referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service on Miss Bs behalf.
In May 2022, the law firm, again acting for Miss B, made a fresh complaint to Engage. They 
said that Engage had wrongly applied legal fees and interest on those fees to Miss Bs 
mortgage as a result of Miss Bs 2020 interest rate complaint. They said their October 2020 
letter was a letter of complaint and should have been treated as such, rather than as a letter 
of claim. They also said Engage hadnt mentioned these additional fees in its final response 
letter or provided a breakdown of them.  
Engage didnt respond to this complaint, and the law firm referred it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service as a separate complaint to Miss Bs interest rate complaint.
Engage didnt respond to our requests for information. One of our Investigators looked into 
the complaint and recommended that Engage refund the fees and associated interest. 
Engage asked for a review. It said it hadnt received Miss Bs original complaint about the 
legal fees. It also said it was entitled to defend any legal action and add any resulting legal 
costs to Miss Bs mortgage, and it wouldnt refund them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage agreements usually entitle the lender to recover legal costs they incur in bringing 
or defending legal proceedings, and I think that can include threatened proceedings. 
However, consumers have a right to complain, either directly or through a representative, 
and to do so without their lender charging them for responding.
Here, Engage appears to be unclear about what it has charged Miss B for. It initially said the 
fees in question were for the October 2020 complaint. Ive seen a copy of the letter the law 
firm sent about this. It is clearly headed: Letter of Complaint and opens by saying: This 
letter constitutes our clients letter of complaint pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Disputes [sic] Resolution Handbook (DISP) Rules.
Engages final response letter of 11 January 2021 in relation to this complaint was issued 
and signed by a Complaint Manager, with no mention of legal advice having been taken or 
legal fees arising from such advice which Engage would be passing on to Miss B.
Im satisfied that this was a complaint and Engage treated it as such.
Engage later told us the legal fees in question had not in fact arisen as a result of the 2020 
interest rate complaint, but as a result of another letter it had received, from a different law 
firm, about payment protection insurance. It then said the 2020 interest rate complaint had 
included a Preliminary Notice (this is intention to take Engage Credit to Court) which also 
resulted in legal fees being applied. 
So Engage appears to have applied legal fees to Miss Bs mortgage in respect of two 
separate matters. It is, however, unclear what, if any, legal advice or support it received in 
respect of either matter. We have asked Engage for its file to support its position in this 
complaint, and it hasnt provided any evidence or indication of legal advice or instructions to 
or involvement from solicitors, court proceedings, or invoices to reflect the legal fees it has 
charged Miss B.  
As a matter of law and whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Engage could 
only recover such fees from Miss B where they have been reasonably incurred and where 
they are reasonable in amount  and Engage hasnt shown either of those things in this 
case. I cant therefore fairly conclude that Engage was entitled to apply these fees to Miss 
Bs mortgage or to charge interest on them.
Putting things right
Pepper (UK) Limited, trading as Engage Credit, should refund the legal fees it has applied to 
Miss Bs mortgage as a result of the letters it received from the two law firms acting for Miss 
B between 2020 and 2022, in respect of the interest rate on Miss Bs mortgage and payment 
protection insurance / commission.
In refunding those fees, Engage should re-work Miss Bs mortgage in such a way that 
interest applied to those fees is also refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Pepper (UK) Limited, trading as 
Engage Credit, to put things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 30 
August 2023. 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman