DRN-3402842
The complaint
Miss D complains that a car she obtained through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) was not of satisfactory quality. She wants the car 
fixed or taken back in return for a different car.
What happened
Miss D obtained a second-hand car in June 2021 through a finance agreement with 
Moneybarn.
Within a few weeks she reported a problem with the front passenger door not locking and 
the car over-heating.
The supplying garage agreed to pay for the required repairs.
Miss D took her car to a third-party garage, as agreed, and it fitted a new coolant flange.
Within two months, Miss D reported that the car was over-heating again. The supplying 
garage advised her to get the fault diagnosed by one of the manufacturers garages. The 
garage found a coolant leak from the turbo coolant pipes which it said would cost £460.34 to 
fix. It also suspected an oil leak which it said required further investigation. Miss D paid £89 
for the diagnostic check but couldnt afford the repairs.
The supplying garage said the car was out of warranty and that it wouldnt cover the cost of 
repair. But it offered her £250 as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss D referred her complaint to Moneybarn as the finance provider. It hadnt completed its 
investigation of her complaint within eight weeks, so Miss D referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss D didnt agree 
so the complaint was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2022 explaining why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was 
supplied, and how long after supply the fault materialised.
The car was around six years old when it was supplied in June 2021 and its mileage 
was around 81,000 miles. I would expect a car of this age and mileage to have more 
wear and tear issues than a newer vehicle.
Im satisfied that the car has a fault  a third party garage has investigated and said 
there is a coolant leak from the turbo coolant pipes and a probable oil leak. I need to 
decide whether the fault, or faults, is due to a wear and tear issue  which Miss D 
would be responsible for fixing. Or due to a fault which was present or developing 
when the car was supplied  which would be the responsibility of Moneybarn.
The fault occurred around three months after the car had been supplied. Generally, 
when a fault occurs within six months, it is the responsibility of the supplier to show 
that the car was satisfactory when it was supplied. Moneybarn hasnt provided 
evidence, by way of an independent report, to show that the car was satisfactory 
when it was supplied or that the fault has been caused by expected wear and tear, 
accidental damage, or lack of maintenance. 
I wouldnt have expected the car to fail in the way it has so soon after it had been 
supplied, even taking into account that it was second-hand with considerable mileage 
and would likely require some wear and tear repairs. I also think its more likely than 
not that the current fault is linked to the initial fault Miss D reported a few weeks after 
supply. Taking this into account, I find that, on balance, the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied.
And I set out what I thought Moneybarn needed to do to put things right. I said:
When Miss D referred her complaint to us, she said she either wanted the car 
repaired or a replacement car. She now says she would like to reject the car and for 
the agreement to be cancelled, and I think thats fair. I say this because the car has 
already been repaired, but I dont think this was successful because the car 
continued to overheat. I think its now fair that Moneybarn accepts Miss Ds rejection 
of the car and ends the agreement with nothing further for her to pay.
Moneybarn should refund the deposit she paid, plus interest.
Miss D has continued to have use of the car, and its fair that she pays for that use. 
But shes not been able to drive the car long distances and shes told us shes had to 
re-fill the coolant on a weekly basis. I think its fair and reasonable that Moneybarn 
pays Miss D the equivalent of three months payments - £671.25 to reflect the 
impaired use and lack of enjoyment.
Miss D paid £89 for a diagnostic check. This should be reimbursed to her, plus 
interest.
Miss D should also be compensated for the trouble and upset caused by being 
supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. I think £150 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Moneybarn said it didnt have any further information to provide. But it contacted Miss D to 
tell her it had completed its investigation of her complaint and that it had decided to uphold it, 
in line with what Id set out in my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any new evidence or information in response to my provisional 
decision, so I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusion. Im pleased that 
Moneybarn has already been in contact with Miss D to arrange collection of the car and to 
pay her the redress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further for Miss D to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Miss D.
3. Refund the deposit paid, plus interest at 8% simple from the date the deposit was paid to 
the date of settlement. *
4. Pay Miss D £671.25, being three months payments, to reflect her loss of enjoyment of 
the car.
5. Pay Miss D £89 to reimburse her for the cost of the diagnostic report, plus interest at 8% 
simple from the date of payment to the date of settlement. *
6. Pay Miss D £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
7. Mark the agreement as settled on Miss D credit file or remove it altogether.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman