DRN-2343961
The complaint
Miss S complains that when she withdrew cash from her account with Barclays Bank UK Plc, 
she was given less than she requested and the bank refuses to make up the shortfall.
What happened
In December 2019, Miss S went into Barclays to withdraw £5,000 in cash over the counter. 
She says she was short of time so forgot to ask the cashier to count the money in front of 
her. The money was placed in a sealed grey bag and handed over. Miss S says the bag 
remained in a drawer in her house and no one else had access to it. Miss S says she didnt 
count the money - and discover the shortfall - until the day she was leaving to go abroad for 
three weeks. On her return, a month after the original transaction, Miss S visited the bank to 
inform them that the amount shed requested had been £650 short. 
Miss S complained to Barclays. She said the bank informed her theyd conducted an 
investigation and because their tills matched, they said there was nothing further they could 
do. Miss S says she is £650 down and would like Barclays to return this shortfall.
Barclays has told us that they provided Miss S with a full explanation when she spoke to 
them by telephone. They said they told her that theyd checked the tills involved, both of 
which balanced; theyd checked their back office records but there was nothing that 
evidenced the discrepancy she suggested; theyd checked CCTV footage but the images 
were insufficiently clear to be conclusive; and theyd spoken to staff members but as this 
was a month after the original transaction, nobody had any recollection of the event. 
Barclays then sent out a letter in January 2020 telling Miss S how she could bring the matter 
to our service if she remained dissatisfied.
Miss S complained again and Barclays told her theyd completed a full investigation and 
done everything they could. And in a further, more detailed response, also of January 2020, 
Barclays apologised and reiterated the steps set out above and told Miss S they wouldnt be 
upholding her complaint.
Miss S was unhappy with this response and contacted this service in January 2020. She told 
our investigator she hadnt been able to return to the branch as she lives some distance 
away, so decided to go once shed got back from abroad. She said she lives as part of a 
family of six but nobody would open cupboards or drawers without her permission and there 
were no cleaners, building works, friends visiting or parties held over the period. Miss S was 
concerned shed seen no proof the bank had carried out their checks properly and thought 
the cashier should have counted out the money in front of her.
In October 2020, our investigator sent out her view. She said Barclays had conducted all the 
relevant checks and concluded that thered been no error. Shed been unable to find any 
evidence supporting Miss Ss account. And as she hadnt seen any evidence of a mistake or 
wrongdoing on the part of the branch either, she couldnt ask Barclays to refund her.
Miss S was unhappy with our decision and asked for her case to be considered by an 
ombudsman. So, now the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for essentially the same reasons as our 
investigator. Let me explain why:
Ive seen the printed receipt provided by Barclays which states that Miss Ss withdrawal was 
processed for an amount of £5,000 on the day in question, and Ive also seen Miss Ss bank 
statement for December 2019 which clearly records a cash withdrawal of £5,000 the same 
day. So, as a starting point, Im satisfied that Miss S withdrew, or set out to withdraw, 
£5,000.
And Ive seen from the statements of the branch manager and the cashier explaining that all 
withdrawals of £5,000 and over are prepared in advance and must be counted on the banks 
deferred till, in a secure area in the back office. The cashier also said that as the money is 
counted in the back office, he wouldnt have recounted it again himself front of house for 
security reasons. He also confirmed that when he later audited the till, it was £1.38 short 
rather than £650 in surplus. As Ive no reason to doubt their testimony, Im satisfied that the 
£5,000 was counted in the back office before being transferred to the customer till in a 
secure bag when Miss S arrived. I also note that when money is counted in this way, it is 
verified by two staff members. 
Ive also looked at Barclays case notes. These record that after Miss S came into the branch 
to raise her claim, the bank checked the relevant tills, checked their back office records, 
checked internal accounts, checked CCTV footage and interviewed staff members. And Ive 
seen the branchs till balancing receipts for the day in question showing the two tills 
concerned, one at which Miss S was served and the second to which the contents of the first 
were later transferred. These showed no cash surplus. On the contrary, the records 
show the till used for customer transactions was found to be £1.38 short. So, Im satisfied 
that none of Miss Ss £5,000 went missing here.
And Ive seen the branchs overall log which each day records any additional, unaccounted-
for funds which are then credited to one of the banks internal accounts. And on the day in 
question there were no funds credited to this account. So, Im satisfied that none of Miss Ss 
£5,000 went missing here either.
Although Miss S has suggested that the cashier should have counted out the money at 
the counter in front of her, the branch managers statement makes clear that staff arent 
allowed to do this on open counters, as a security measure. Although the manager also 
confirmed that if a customer wants to check their money, he or she is welcome to do 
so out of sight in one of the branchs offices. As Miss S told us in her Complaint Form 
that she did not have enough time so I forgot to ask them to count in front of me, I 
think that, on balance, she would have declined any offer on the banks part to do so. 
Im also satisfied that the bank didnt do anything wrong in not making this offer to 
Miss S in the first place. In any event, if Miss S had asked to count the money at the 
time of withdrawal, Im confident the staff would have facilitated this. 
CCTV footage for the date in question is no longer available as its retained for a period of 90 
days and then deleted in accordance with the banks protocols. Barclays has said the branch 
verified the footage when Miss S raised her claim but it wasnt clear enough to be 
conclusive. Having read through the banks case notes, Ive no reason to doubt this 
account, so Im satisfied that this footage was not of assistance either.
Finally, Im also conscious that, beyond Miss Ss testimony, I havent seen any evidence 
to support the proposition that £4,350 was handed over rather than £5,000.While Ive no reason to doubt Miss Ss testimony, and I cant be 100% certain what actually 
happened on the day in question, I have to base my decision on the evidence available and 
on the balance of probabilities. Im more persuaded by the evidence Barclays have provided 
and I think its more likely than not that the envelope Miss S was handed in branch contained 
£5,000 as requested. If it hadnt, I think some of the numerous and detailed records 
maintained by the bank would have indicated this. And as I havent seen any evidence of a 
mistake or wrongdoing on the part of the bank, I think Barclays decision not to refund the 
shortfall is fair and reasonable and Im not going to ask them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman