DRN-2614290
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) have unfairly voided 
their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a motor insurance policy with One Insurance on 11 February 2020. 
They made a claim under the policy on 28 February 2020, but the insurer declined the claim 
and voided the policy as it said they had misrepresented their no claims bonus.
One Insurance said that Mr and Mrs F applied for a motor insurance policy through an online 
comparison website on 11 February 2020, where they were subsequently redirected to the 
brokers online platform to complete the purchase. It said they were presented with a list of 
assumptions that they were required to confirm in order to continue, including the fact that 
the no claims bonus declared was from a private vehicle policy from within the previous two 
years. One Insurance says that Mr and Mrs F declared that Mrs F had around 10 years no 
claims bonus.
On 26 February 2020, One Insurance carried out checks on an external database to validate 
the no claims bonus declared by Mr and Mrs F, but no details were found. So it sent them a 
letter on 27 February 2020 asking them to provide evidence of their no claims bonus. A 
claim was made on the policy the day after on 28 February 2020 following a road traffic 
incident.
Mr and Mrs F provided the no claims documentation on 3 March 2020, which the insurer 
said had expired in 2013. It said that it had also come to light that Mrs F hadnt had a private 
car insurance policy since 2013, as she had been insured under a salary sacrifice fleet 
policy. One Insurance considered this, but said that the no claims bonus under this policy 
could not be accepted in line with its underwriting criteria. It said that if this information had 
been declared at the point the policy was taken out, it would not have offered cover on the 
basis that Mr and Mrs F had zero years no claims bonus on a private car policy from the past 
two years.
As a result, One Insurance declined the claim and voided the policy, but said it would 
continue to honour any third party claim if it transpired that Mr and Mrs F were at fault for the 
road traffic incident.
Mr and Mrs F complained that One Insurance has acted unfairly by voiding the policy. They 
say they were not asked for evidence of the no claims bonus until around a month after 
taking out the policy. They also said that Mrs Fs company car was for personal use and 
wasnt used commercially. Mr and Mrs F say it was a genuine mistake and that they now 
owe thousands to the car finance company as their GAP insurance has also now been 
voided. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Mr and Mrs F had made a 
qualifying misrepresentation that induced the insurer into providing cover that they otherwise 
would not have offered, so he didnt think they had acted unfairly by voiding the policy in 
these circumstances, as this was their right under statute. Mr and Mrs F disagreed, so the 
matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) effectively 
codifies in law the equitable approach that this service has long taken to cases of 
nondisclosure or misrepresentation. In short, it is the consumers duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when answering an insurers clear and specific 
questions about facts relevant to the proposed risk when they buy or renew an insurance 
policy. If the consumer didnt take reasonable care and misrepresented something, and this 
adversely affected the insurers underwriting (a qualifying misrepresentation), then the way 
the insurer can respond depends on whether the misrepresentation was careless or 
deliberate/reckless. If the consumer did take reasonable care then theres no qualifying 
misrepresentation, so the insurer cant take any action against the consumer at all.
So the starting point in this case is to establish whether Mr and Mrs F breached their duty to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. So Ive considered what questions 
they were asked when taking the policy, and whether these were clear and specific enough. 
I can see the policy was taken out online, initially through an insurance comparison website, 
which asked:
How many years of no claims discount (NCD) do you have? This will be detailed in 
your latest policy documents
Insurance providers usually only accept proof that is less than two years old. You 
may need to provide proof of your NCD to your new provider, so the number of years 
selected needs to match the amount on your latest policy documents

If you are unsure whether your NCD is applicable, please check with your chosen 
provider before purchasing.
After being redirected to the brokers website, Mr and Mrs F were then presented with a list 
of assumptions that they were required to confirm before proceeding to payment:
Your no claims bonus must not be in use on another vehicle.
Your no claims bonus will be verified with the claim and underwriting exchange.
Your no claims bonus must be from a policy that expired within 2 years of the 
start date of your policy.
Your no claims bonus must have been earned on a private car insurance policy.
I dont think the question One Insurance asked is ambiguous or unclear in any way, and Im 
satisfied it was made clear that the no claims bonus must have been earned on a private car 
insurance policy that had expired within the past two years. Mr and Mrs F have explained 
that Mrs F had six years no claims bonus on a private vehicle up until 2013, at which point 
she utilised this bonus with her next insurer when she insured a fleet vehicle through her 
employer on a salary sacrifice fleet insurance policy. Mrs F says she held the fleet policy for a further five years and didnt make a claim, so she thought these additional years would 
serve to top up the initial no claims bonus earned on the private policy. 
Given that they did not have any no claims bonus from a private policy that had expired in 
the past two years, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F misrepresented the true nature of the risk 
to One Insurance. I appreciate this was a genuine mistake and the misrepresentation wasnt 
deliberate. But they were under a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Section 3(3) of CIDRA states that the standard of care that is required is 
that of a reasonable consumer.
In the circumstances, I think Mr and Mrs F ought reasonably to have known that Mrs Fs 
most recent no-claims bonus had not been earned on a private car insurance policy within 
the past two years. They say she used the vehicle privately and was also given the option to 
purchase the fleet vehicle. But the fact that she was given the option to purchase the 
company car does not make it a private vehicle, and neither would this have made her fleet 
policy a private insurance policy. The insurance that covered her vehicle was a commercial 
fleet policy, and I do not think the reasonable consumer would have thought that this would 
be classed as a private car insurance policy, or that it would serve to extend the no-claims 
bonus earned on a private policy that had expired in 2013. Mr and Mrs F were also told 
before taking out the policy: If you are unsure whether your NCD is applicable, please check 
with your chosen provider before purchasing. So, in the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs F have not taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, as I do not think 
the reasonable consumer would have answered One Insurances questions in the same 
way. 
One Insurance has said (and documented with contemporaneous evidence)  which I accept 
 that the misrepresentation or non-disclosure adversely affected its underwriting and led 
them to offer cover to Mr and Mrs F that they otherwise wouldve avoided. I can see from its 
criteria that the insurer required a minimum of two years no-claims bonus, and that fleet no 
claims bonus was not acceptable. Given that Mrs Fs private insurance policy expired in 
2013, it means she had zero qualifying years no claims bonus in this instance. Such 
inducement to enter into the contract means that there has been a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
In order to determine the remedy available to One Insurance, CIDRA requires a distinction to 
be made between whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate, or at the very 
least careless. If it was careless, CIDRA sets out that if the insurer would not have entered 
into the insurance contract, they may void the contract and refuse all claims. But it must also 
return the premiums paid if it is fair to do so. 
One Insurance do not contend that Mr and Mrs Fs misrepresentation was made dishonestly 
or recklessly. And I dont think there is enough evidence in the circumstances to suggest that 
this wouldve been the case in any event. So, Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was, at 
the very least, made carelessly. Having seen the insurers underwriting criteria  which 
shows that having zero years no claims bonus on a private policy would be deemed an 
unacceptable risk  Im persuaded that One Insurance wouldnt have entered into the 
contract with Mr and Mrs F had the misrepresentation not occurred.
This ultimately means that One Insurance was entitled to void the policy when it did, in line 
with their statutory remedy against misrepresentation under CIDRA. When a 
misrepresentation is deemed to have been carless, the insurer would typically be expected 
to refund any premiums paid if its fair to do so. In its policy voidance letter of 5 March 2020, 
the insurer has said that it would make arrangements for a refund of the premiums, but that if 
a claim has been reported (which has incurred costs) no refund would be provided. Mr and 
Mrs F say that they havent received a refund of their premium. But given that a claim was made on the policy on 28 February 2020  where One Insurance has agreed to honour any 
third-party claims  I do not think it would be unfair for the insurer to retain the premiums if 
there are any costs incurred as a result. However, if the insurer has not incurred any costs 
as a result of any third-party claim from the incident, then I would expect a refund to be paid 
 although this would need to form the subject of a separate complaint.  
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that One Insurance asked them for proof that Mrs Fs company 
car was for her own personal use, which was received the day after the policy was voided on 
5 March 2020. I appreciate this may have been misleading. But in any event, for the reasons 
explained above, I think One Insurance was justified in voiding the policy based on the 
information it had (because whether or not the car was used personally was largely 
irrelevant given that the no claims bonus was still accrued under a commercial policy rather 
than a private policy).
I also understand that One Insurance did not ask for Mr and Mrs Fs documents straight 
away (such as proof of no claims) when they took out the policy. However, it is standard for 
an insurer to initially provide cover without documentary evidence on the basis that the 
policyholder has answered its questions accurately and has confirmed that its assumptions 
are correct. Reviewing the documentation after is simply a formality to confirm what the 
customer has said is correct. And based on the answers Mr and Mrs F gave to their 
questions, I do not think One Insurance had any reason to believe that the answers it had 
been given were inaccurate such that it should have requested documentation before 
approving cover. 
The insurer also stated in its new business letter of 11 February 2021 that it may require 
proof of no claims if they could not verify it on their database searches. This was carried out 
around two weeks after the policys inception, which I dont think is an unreasonable 
timeframe for such checks to have been carried out. In any event, the new business letter of 
11 February 2020 also gave Mr and Mrs F the option to upload their documents themselves 
on the insurers customer portal, so it seems they could have provided their documentation 
sooner of their own volition. 
Im very sorry to hear of the distress and financial difficulty this has caused Mr and Mrs F, 
and I understand this has been a very worrying and stressful time for them. But One 
Insurance has voided the policy in line with its statutory right under CIDRA in response to a 
qualifying misrepresentation. I appreciate it was a genuine mistake and was not deliberate, 
but Im afraid it was still objectively careless, so Im unable to say that One Insurance has 
done anything wrong in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman