DRN-2942775
The complaint
Mr P and Ms W complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) 
handling of a claim made on a legal expenses insurance.
What happened
Although this complaint has been brought to our service by Mr P and Ms W as joint 
policyholders, the claim was made by Ms W and she has been the main contact with LV and 
our service. For ease of reference, Ill only refer to Ms W within this decision.
LV outsources the administration of this policy and claims to a separate company. Where I 
refer to LV within this decision, it includes this company (and their representatives).
Ms W made a claim on a legal expenses insurance policy she holds with LV. She was 
seeking cover for an employment related dispute.
The precise details of the dispute arent relevant to my decision. What is relevant is that 
during the course of the claim, Ms W has made a number of complaints and from reviewing 
the information available, I think they can be summarised as:
The claim has been unnecessarily delayed.
The claim has been handled poorly and not in accordance with the relevant rules and 
regulations.
Ms W wasnt permitted to appoint her preferred solicitor in breach of regulations.
LV have refused to disclose details of a solicitor who assessed cover for her claim.
LV didnt comply with a data subject access request (DSAR) she made.
LV breached her rights by disclosing personal information to the solicitor.
She was incorrectly referred to as Miss W rather than Ms W in correspondence.
Ms W was dissatisfied with LVs response to her complaints and so referred this matter to 
our service. As our investigator didnt think LV need take any action and Ms W didnt agree 
with this, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although there is some overlap between Ms Ws complaint points, Ill address the matters 
Ive highlighted above separately.
Delays to the claim
On balance, Im not persuaded that LV has unnecessarily delayed Ms Ws claim. I know that 
Ms W made it clear that there were time constraints related to the employment dispute. But I 
can also see that (with one exception), LV responded to her queries and correspondence 
within five working days. This is its agreed service level and, Im satisfied, a reasonable 
timeframe for a response.
There was one occasion on which LV didnt respond within five working days, but the 
response that was given to Ms W outlined the progress that had been made since shed 
been in contact. The update was meaningful and demonstrated that during that period LV 
had been reviewing cover for the claim and were seeking legal advice as to whether there 
was any cover for the claim. So while it didnt respond as quickly as it should have, the 
evidence I have is that LV were progressing the claim during that time.
While the claim hasnt proceeded as quickly as Ms W wanted, I cant say this is because of 
any actions by LV. I can see that when it responded to her correspondence, it was 
requesting information from her in order for it to be able to assess her claim and review 
whether any cover was available on the policy. Ms Ws responses to these requests didnt 
always include all of the required information or address the points raised by LV. As a result, 
it asked for the same information again. But its fair to say that it couldnt assess the claim 
without that information and so repeated requests for information it didnt have arent 
evidence that the claim was being unnecessarily delayed.
The handling of the claim
Ms W points to rules set out in the FCA Handbook which require insurers to handle claims 
promptly and effectively, and treat customers fairly. She says that LVs conduct during the 
claim breaches these rules.
I havent seen anything which suggests that LV werent treating Ms W fairly, or handling the 
claim effectively. Ive already addressed above why I dont think any unreasonable delays 
arose because of LVs actions.
After it received the required information, LV explained to Ms W that it didnt believe any 
cover was available on the policy for her claim. This was because, having received legal 
advice, it concluded that she wouldnt be considered an employee with the parties she was 
in dispute with and didnt have a contract of employment with them. It concluded there was 
no section of cover on the policy which provided cover for the circumstances of her claim.
LV did say that, in the event that Ms W received legal advice indicating that she did have a 
contract of employment then it would be able to look into the matter further. To date, it hasnt 
received this. The only evidence supplied by Ms W is from a solicitor who says they suspect 
your dispute would fall within an employment dispute rather than a pure contractual dispute 
But this doesnt go to showing that she had a contract of employment with the other parties, 
which is the point raised by LV when it said no cover was provided by the policy. LV has also 
maintained that it would reconsider its position if further legal advice was received by Ms W 
which indicated that the policy could provide cover. I consider this to be fair.
LV bases its decision on the opinion of a solicitor. I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
legal advice is obviously wrong, and would be obviously wrong to a layperson. Theres also 
nothing to suggest that there are material facts within this advice which are wrong. On that 
basis, Im satisfied it was fair for LV to rely on this advice when it concluded that there was 
no cover for Ms Ws claim.
Ms W also says that a representative of LV gave her legal advice when they should not 
have, and werent qualified to do so. She also said she was told by this representative to file 
a dispute with A, a dispute resolution service, without legal advice or support.
Ive seen the notes of the call in question, and these indicate that Ms W said LV were 
delaying the claim, and she would miss a deadline for submitting the case to A. The 
representative said that she didnt require a legal representative in order to file a dispute with A. Ms W sought to confirm whether the representative had legal training, and was told she 
did not.
Based on this information, I cant see any evidence that the representative, who identified 
that they werent legally qualified, did give legal advice to Ms W. They said that she didnt 
require legal support in order to file a dispute with A. Looking at As website, I think this is 
correct. Its clear from this that conciliation with A before a tribunal claim is an informal 
process and the dispute is filed by the party bringing the grievance. Its described as informal 
and voluntary and nothing suggests that legal support is needed in order to access or 
properly use As services. I dont think LVs representative acted inappropriately or gave Ms 
W advice they werent qualified to give.
The appointment of solicitors
Ms W refers to regulations which say that a policyholder should be able to appoint a solicitor 
of their choosing rather than being represented by an insurers preferred solicitors.
The relevant regulations here are the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) 
Regulations 1990, which state that where under a legal expenses insurance contract 
recourse is had to a lawyer (or other person having such qualifications as may be 
necessary) to defend, represent or serve the interests of the insured in any inquiry or 
proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that lawyer (or other person).
Ms W says that these regulations mean that, in order to obtain legal advice around her 
claim, LV should pay her own, preferred solicitors rates from the outset of the claim. She 
says that seeking legal advice means that legal proceedings have started. LVs position is 
that Ms Ws claim wasnt at a stage where formal legal action had commenced which is 
when the policy allows a policyholder to appoint their preferred solicitor with the costs 
covered by the policy (subject to the claim being covered and other terms and conditions 
being met).
The policy terms and conditions say that You have the right to choose your own legal 
representative to represent you if it is necessary to take your claim to court or if a conflict of 
interest arises. and appears to be in accordance with the relevant regulations. 
The regulations, and LVs terms and conditions mean that its only when formal action is to 
be issued or taken that the right to appoint a policyholders preferred solicitor applies. Ms 
Ws claim wasnt the subject of formal legal proceedings when she wanted to appoint her 
own solicitors. Seeking legal advice is not the same as formal legal proceedings. Because of 
this, Im satisfied that LV hasnt been unfair in declining to cover Ms Ws preferred solicitors 
costs under the policy.
LVs refusal to disclose the reviewing solicitors details
LV has provided a copy of the advice given by the solicitor which concluded that Ms W didnt 
have a contract of employment. It hasnt given the details of the solicitor who completed this 
advice. It says that it isnt able to do so as the information is protected by legal privilege and 
client confidentiality.
LV sought legal advice about Ms Ws claim to assess whether it had any liability under the 
policy. The solicitor who completed the advice wasnt acting on Ms Ws behalf. They were 
providing advice to LV and instructed by LV. The costs were paid by LV itself, and those 
costs havent been deducted from the indemnity provided by Ms Ws policy. Where the 
solicitor was acting for LV, and had no client relationship with Ms W, its for LV to determine 
which parts of this advice it is prepared to disclose to her.Im satisfied LV acted fairly when it declined to provide the solicitors details to Ms W.
LVs non-compliance with the DSAR
It isnt disputed that Ms W made a DSAR to LV, and also it isnt disputed that LV has 
declined to supply the requested information  it says that shes seeking, through the DSAR, 
to obtain the reviewing solicitors details, which its already declined to provide.
The correct forum for this complaint is the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). I 
understand Ms W has referred this element of the complaint to the ICO  so I wont address 
this further in my decision.
LVs disclosure of information to the solicitor
Ms W says that by providing information to the solicitor which could identify her, LV 
breached her data rights. LV says that shed consented to her data being shared with third 
parties when she made the claim.
I cant comment on whether a data breach has occurred  again, thats a matter which would 
need to be referred to the ICO. But I do think it was reasonable for LV to share information 
with the solicitor.
When Ms W made the claim, she agreed to a disclaimer which said, in part, that I agree that 
this information can be forwarded to an appropriate third party but solely for the purposes of 
assisting or dealing with the claim. She doesnt appear to dispute that she agreed to this. 
I think the evidence is clear that Ms W had consented to the sharing of information with third 
parties. So I think on the basis of that consent, LV was entitled to share relevant information 
from the claim with the solicitor. 
Its clear to me that the solicitor would have been unable to complete a meaningful review of 
Ms Ws claim without being supplied information by LV.
LV referring to her as Miss W rather than Ms W.
In one email sent to Ms W, LVs representative referred to her as Miss W. That isnt 
disputed. I know Ms W was very upset by this and said that using her incorrect title was 
misogynistic and sexist.
Its accepted that the incorrect title was used in one email. There were multiple emails 
between Ms W and LV during the course of the claim and her complaints, and the error 
hasnt been repeated. Theres nothing else put forward by Ms W to suggest that the content 
of that email, or any other, was misogynistic or sexist. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the incorrect use of Miss W rather than Ms W in one email 
was the result of a clerical error. I cant agree that it was deliberate or done with the intent of 
insulting or belittling Ms W. LVs apologised for the error, and it hasnt reoccurred. I dont 
think it would be reasonable to ask it to do any more.
 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman