DRN-3667204
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected her claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 194 in respect of a faulty carpet.
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs M purchased a new carpet from a retailer I will call S. It cost £3,365 which 
was funded by a fixed loan from Ikano and a small deposit. The carpet was fitted in August 
2020 and shortly afterwards a second room had the same carpet laid. It came with a 20 year 
wear guarantee. Mrs M was concerned the carpet was defective and contacted S. It sent a 
representative and her report states:
The carpet in the lounge, dining room and HSL shows dullness and flattening in the traffic 
areas which the customer is very unhappy about also the stairs are baggy on the edges. The 
carpet is under 6 months old. I have seen this regularly with Epsilon. The customer says it is 
vacuumed using a roller regularly but this does not improve the appearance. The customer 
wants it to be replaced. The conservatory was fitted in the same carpet at a later date and as 
yet is not showing any sign of flattening however the join that has been put in is not straight 
and very visible. The landing carpet has formed a lump and is not secured into the doorbar 
(stet) correctly.
However, S concluded that the appearance of the carpet was due to normal wear and tear. 
The matter was referred to an alternative dispute resolution service and they concluded the 
carpet was satisfactory.
Ikano also rejected Mrs Ms claim and so she brought a complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. Ikano didnt agree 
and said it was not reasonable to reach a different conclusion to the other dispute resolution 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
I appreciate the view expressed by Ikano that an alternative service has taken a view on this 
matter. However, I am looking at the application of s 75 and I can reach a different 
conclusion on that matter. 
The issue is whether there was breach of contract or misrepresentation. Mrs M purchased a 
carpet which was advertised with a 20 year wear guarantee and as being suitable for heavy 
domestic use. There were other suitably vague promises about the carpet being of a rich 
texture and opulent. All of which points to it being sold as a quality carpet. That means Mr M 
had reasonable expectation of it not suffering from wear and tear with a matter of months.
I recognise that carpets will show some flattening in areas of heavy traffic, but it wouild 
appear from the photographic evidence that it does not seem able to cope with the use it has 
received. I have compared the photos of those areas with ones where the use has been 
less. The carpet does not appear to be wearing well.
I have to rely on such evidence since no independent report has been supplied. The claim 
was made with six months and the onus is on the supplier and Ikano to demonstrate that 
there has been no breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
In short, I cannot safely conclude that the carpet was as durable as the advertising 
suggested and I think that the claim under s 75 should be upheld.
Mrs M has told us a mirror was broken by the fitter and as our investigator has explained her 
testimony and supporting evidence is sufficient to allow me to accept that this was the case. 
I have noted the other damages which Mrs M has claimed, but I do not consider there is 
sufficient evidence to allow me to uphold those claims. 
I also consider Mrs M had consequential losses in paying for the fitting of the carpet. I gather 
she was advised to pay the fitters separately and that cost was not part of the agreement 
with S nor was it funded by Ikano. However the cost was consequential to the purchase of 
the carpet and so I consider it should be covered by Ikano subject to Mrs M providing 
suitable evidence of payment.
Putting things right
Mrs M should be allowed to reject the carpet.
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Ikano Bank AB (publ) to allow Mrs M to reject the carpet and 
to end the agreement with nothing further to pay. It should also refund any payments she 
has made and refund the deposit she paid. It should also cover the cost of fitting subject to 
evidence of payment being supplied and pay her £60 for the damaged mirror. If Ikano has 
placed any adverse entries on Mr Ms credit file in relation to his loan it should arrange for 
these to be removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman