DRN-4128530
The complaint
Mr M complains Starr International (Europe) Limited treated him unfairly by not considering a 
claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
Any reference to Starr includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this case are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised what 
happened. 
Mr M has a mobile phone insurance policy which is underwritten by Starr. It provides 
cover in the event the insured phone is lost. 
In July 2022, Mr M contacted Starr to report his mobile phone as lost. He said hed 
lost it on a train.  
To validate the claim, Starr asked Mr M for further information, including details 
about: how he lost the phone and attempts hed made to recover it; screenshots of 
the phones tracking service and location history; evidence he reported the phone as 
lost to the network provider and that itd been blocked; the phones IMEI number; 
evidence from the network provider showing the date and time the phone was last 
used.
Mr M says he couldnt provide the necessary information because his mental health 
condition prevented him from doing so. He also doesnt think its fair that Starr has 
asked for information which isnt specified in the contract hed entered in to. 
Because Mr M didnt provide the necessary information, Starr said it couldnt 
consider his claim any further. 
Unhappy, Mr M complained to this Service. An Investigator considered it but said 
Starr had acted reasonably. 
Mr M disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached. I know this will 
disappoint Mr M, but I hope once hes read my decision, hell understand why Im not 
able to uphold it. 
When a claim is made, the onus is on the policy holder to prove it  so here, Mr M 
needed to prove hed lost his mobile phone. Its standard industry practice for 
insurers to ask policyholders for information to satisfy itself a claim is valid. So, I cant 
say Starr has treated Mr M unfairly by requesting information to prove the phone was 
lost and no longer in use.   
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions as these set out the policyholders 
obligations. The relevant section says:
Your insured item is not covered for: 
theft or loss if a police report has not been filed (this shall contain at minimum, 
if applicable, an IMEI-number, a description of the event and the date, time 
and site for the event). 
Theft or loss if you have not notified both the police and network provider of 
the theft or loss and blocked the SIM card, if applicable and provided 
evidence of this. 
So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear there is a responsibility on Mr M to take 
certain steps. As Mr M didnt report the loss to the police and network provider, on 
the face of it, he didnt fulfil his obligations under the policy. Hes also not supplied 
the additional information Starr has asked for  including details of phones location 
and last use. And so, I dont consider Starr to have acted unreasonably by saying it 
cant consider his claim any further. 
But Mr M has said his mental condition prevents him from being able to recall events 
coherently. Hes explained one of the symptoms he experiences is a lack of trust and 
so, he turns tracking off on his mobile phone device. This meant he couldnt provide 
evidence of his phones location. 
Hes also provided a letter from his GP which he considers shows his mental health 
condition meant he couldnt act in accordance with the policys obligations. Ive 
looked at this letter and whilst the GP has confirmed Mr M has a mental health 
condition, it doesnt say its the reason why he didnt report the loss to the police or 
train company. So, whilst I appreciate Mr M sharing it, it doesnt persuade me that he 
was unable to report the phone as lost at the time and that mitigating circumstances 
apply.
I am sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr M experiences because of his medical 
condition, but I cant reasonably say it should mean Starr forgo needing to validate 
the claim and overlook the fact key information hadnt been provided. Ultimately, 
Starr needed to be satisfied the claim was valid, and it couldnt do so based on the 
limited information Mr M had provided. 
Ive seen Starr asked Mr M to provide the required information on several occasions 
and made it clear in email correspondence that if he couldnt do so, it wouldnt be 
able to approve his claim. So, Im satisfied it gave him a reasonable opportunity to 
provide the information. 
On balance, based on the available evidence, I dont think Starr has treated Mr M 
unfairly by saying it cant consider the claim any further. Starr has said itll reconsider 
the claim if Mr M can provide the requested information - so Ill leave it with Mr M to 
decide what he wants to do next. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman