DRN-3842150
The complaint
M, a limited company complains that it lost out financially because of mistakes made by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when dealing with a foreign exchange transaction.
M wants HSBC to pay the foreign exchange loss it incurred when a payment was returned 
by the intended recipient.
M is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr K.
What happened
M holds foreign currency accounts with HSBC. In July 2022, HSBC sent a payment to a third 
party in United States Dollars (USD). HSBC made the payment from Ms Australian Dollar 
(AUD) account. So, before the payment was sent, HSBC converted the AUD to USD. 
After the USD payment was returned, HSBC converted it back into AUD before crediting Ms 
AUD account. M is unhappy that HSBC took this step without asking and that its led to a 
financial loss.
In his investigation outcome, the investigator thought HSBC had acted reasonably, so didnt 
ask it to take any action in response to Ms complaint. 
Mr K is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He says when M converted AUD to USD, it 
was a hard conversion not a conditional foreign exchange transaction. Mr K asks whether 
HSBC has the right to convert currency without the owner of the moneys permission. Mr K 
doesnt think its possible to say that HSBCs clients should bear the losses which result from 
HSBCs actions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rule that govern this service allow me to do this but it doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
In Ms case, HSBC converted a sum of money from Ms AUD account into USD. For some 
reason, the USD payment was returned. The terms of Ms AUD account say that if a 
payment converted into a foreign currency is returned to uswell convert that payment 
back into the original currency using the HSBC Exchange Rate that applies at the time. This 
means the amount added back to your account could be less than the original amount of the 
payment. Were not responsible for this.
So, I cant reasonably find that HSBC made a mistake when it converted the returned USD 
payment back into AUD before crediting the refund back to the account used to make the 
payment in the first place. Its unfortunate that M lost money as a result, but as I dont find 
HSBC acted unreasonably, I dont require it to make up any shortfall. 
M says it has a USD account with HSBC, so HSBC could have returned the money there. 
But as this wasnt the account used by M to make the payment, I dont think HSBC was 
wrong to carry out the exchange and credit Ms AUD account in line with the terms of Ms 
account. Particularly as theres no evidence to suggest that M asked HSBC to credit the 
payment back to its USD account ahead of the payment being returned. 
Although M says the various foreign currency accounts it holds are linked, they each have 
separate account numbers so I dont find that HSBC shouldve decided to credit the 
repayment to a different account from the one that it was made from.
Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint M but for the reasons outlined above, I dont 
find HSBC acted unreasonably so I dont require it to refund any money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman