DRN-4000107
The complaint
The estate of Ms R complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to prevent losses from 
her account.
What happened
In 2019, a deputy (D) was appointed through an application to the Court of Protection 
(CoP) in respect of Ms R. This was due to Ms Rs lack of mental capacity to manage her 
own affairs and gave D authority to manage those affairs in line with the order. 
This included the authority to manage Ms Rs financial affairs and Nationwide issued D with 
her own debit card and chequebook.
The account was operated by D but sadly, the following year, Ms R passed away and D was 
no longer authorised to use the account. D notified Nationwide about the death and advised 
them she was the personal representative of the estate. Due to the size of the estate, 
Nationwide asked for a copy of the probate order.
The estates executor (J) also attempted to gain access to the account. Nationwide informed 
J they were already dealing with the estates personal representative and could only deal 
with one person. After J employed a solicitor and produced evidence of probate, Nationwide 
gave access to the account and the records related to it.
After reviewing the financial information about the accounts, J raised questions with 
Nationwide about how D had used the account. J thought that the accounts usage had 
changed once D took over and noted an increase in the number of cash withdrawals. J was 
also concerned about other transactions, including a large cheque (£40,000) that had left the 
account which J thought suspicious.
J complained to Nationwide who examined their records. They advised J that because the 
cash withdrawals were completed using the debit card and the personal identification 
number (PIN) issued to D, they were authorised. They also advised that no aspects of the 
use of the account triggered their fraud indicators.
Nationwide told J that the cheque was paid as there were funds in the account and they 
couldnt challenge the request because it wasnt submitted using Nationwides channels.
J requested disclosure of the information concerning the account and received information 
about the attempt by D to transfer £40,000 using CHAPS ( electronic payment system) the 
day before the cheque was issued. 
J pointed out that the Nationwide employee wouldnt process the CHAPs payment. Later, the 
employee was asked about why this was and said:
 is unable to recall why he declined the POA of the transaction but explained when asking 
questions in relation to the payment, if they did not deem it to be genuine or in best interest 
of member, he wouldn't proceed. 
J also said that the cheque had been signed in the name of Ms R, who at the time was no 
longer considered to have authority to do so because of her mental capacity. J argued that 
the cheque was essentially forged and should therefore be repaid to the estate, along with 
the cash withdrawals and the estates legal expenses.
Nationwide disagreed and declined to make any refund, believing it to be a civil matter.
J then brought the estates complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators.
He considered evidence provided by both parties and didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He thought that:
Whilst there was a change in how the account was used for cash withdrawals, they 
didnt come to the attention of Nationwide at the time. He noted the increase was 
steady rather than sudden.
The cheque was out of character, but if D was asked about it, they would confirm it 
was genuine and they were the authorised user of the account. 
J disagreed and made further points regarding the issue:
He hadnt received an explanation why Nationwide were still dealing with the D in 
2022.
The cheque for £40,000 was a forgery and should be refunded.
The cheque should have been questioned in light of the declined CHAPS payment 
attempted the day before.
Nationwide should pay legal expenses incurred when trying to obtain access to the 
account.
The increase in activity on the account should have caused Nationwide to contact the 
Office of the Public Guardian (OPG).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint brought by J essentially revolves around two main points, one that there were 
unusual transactions on the account that Nationwide should have seen and intervened, 
including the issue of a large cheque and two, that Nationwide caused the estate to incur 
additional legal costs by the way they handled the administration of the account following the 
passing of Ms R.
Im also very aware that not all persons who were involved in the actions being complained 
about are present in the complaint. In particular, thats the role that D took as a Deputy 
looking after the affairs of Ms R. The estate has complained about Ds use of the account, 
but Ds version of events isnt represented here. So, in considering the complaint brought by 
J, I have to take this incomplete picture into account. 
Payments from the account
Theres no doubt here that the cash withdrawals used the appropriate card and PIN issued 
to D after the order was granted by the CoP . So, from the perspective of whether Nationwide had the appropriate instructions to release those funds, I dont think theres any 
doubt they were properly authorised. Whilst there is an increase in their use from when D 
took over, theres no particular indication that any of the cash withdrawals should have come 
to the attention of Nationwide. The account held sufficient funds to meet all of the obligations 
(regular bills) and wasnt emptied or taken into any form of overdraft.
D approached Nationwide to arrange a CHAPS payment which they didnt process. The 
branch member was later asked about why he didnt process it and couldnt remember the 
specific reason. He did say that if they did not deem it to be genuine or in best interest of 
member, he wouldn't proceed. 
The following day, D presented a cheque from the chequebook issued to her for the same 
amount of the CHAPS payment (£40,000). That cheque was processed through the image 
clearing system and was later paid from the account of Ms R. The cheque was signed in 
the name of Ms R.
J have argued that Nationwide should have intervened here. They believe the circumstances 
were sufficiently unusual that Nationwide should have prevented the payment from leaving 
the account, especially in light of the failed CHAPS payment the day before. 
There are no notes of why the CHAPS payment failed, apart from the recollection of the 
event given above. I do understand that the timing of the two attempts could be construed as 
suspicious, but there are no other indicators that D was operating outside of the order. 
Without their version of events, its difficult to reach a threshold that Id be comfortable 
concluding that D was removing money (outside the bounds of her authority) which she 
wasnt entitled to do. 
J also raised an issue with how the cheque was signed. It can clearly be seen that the 
signature of the cheque was in the name of Ms R. There are two issues here, one that Ms 
R no longer had authority on her account due to her lack of mental capacity and two that the 
chequebook was issued to D and should have been signed by her. 
Nationwide have accepted that the cheque shouldnt have been processed and the mistake 
should have been highlighted. So, on that basis the cheque was incorrectly completed and 
the payment should have been stopped. 
I dont think there was any particular (suspicious) reason why the cheque had Ms Rs name 
on, more likely I think that D most likely misunderstood the process. I think that because 
shed been trying to obtain a CHAPS payment the day before, so had no reason to attempt 
to forge a cheque that was issued to her. 
The question here is whether its fair for Nationwide to repay the estate because of the 
wrongly completed cheque? Ive asked them about this, and theyve made the case that if 
they stopped the cheque and informed D about it, all that would have happened was that D 
would have completed the cheque as required and because she was authorised to operate 
the account and had her own chequebook, there was no reason for Nationwide to question 
it.
I dont wholly subscribe to their reasoning here because on the back of the failed CHAPS 
payment and an improperly filled out cheque, I think Nationwide had sufficient reason to 
discuss the situation with D. What I cant know is the likely outcome of that conversation and 
its far from certain that Nationwide would have concluded that there was something wrong.
Presumably D would have had a reason for the payment (likely covered during the original 
CHAPS request) and would probably been able to tell Nationwide the reason for the cheque. If asked now, Ive no doubt D would give a legitimate reason why it was issued. But, D arent 
available to ask and without stronger evidence to show the cheque was fraudulently issued, I 
cant reach a threshold to instruct Nationwide refund it to the estate.
In both the case of the cheque and the cash withdrawals, they were made with the 
appropriate tokens issued by Nationwide to D. Accepting that the cheque wasnt completed 
correctly, but overall D was authorised to manage Ms Rs affairs and without evidence to the 
contrary, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Nationwide to refund the estate of Ms 
R.
Legal Costs
At the time of Ms Rs passing in 2020, the death was notified to Nationwide by D and the 
deputyship ceased to have authority to use the accounts. D also informed Nationwide they 
were the personal representative of the estate. Due to the size of the estate, Nationwide 
wanted to see the probate giving D authority to deal with the accounts.
In early 2021, J approached Nationwide as the estates representative and was informed by 
them that they were already in correspondence with the representative. Nationwide wouldnt 
deal with a second representative, so Js solicitors wrote to Nationwide in March 2021. In 
June 2021, formal letters of administration were granted by the court to enable J to represent 
Ms Rs estate. Ongoing communications then took place about the administration of the 
estate. 
As far as I can see, D told Nationwide they were the personal representative following the 
lapse in the deputyship order. I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to accept this 
on face value as D provided notification of Ms Rs death to them and had been running her 
accounts. Nothing further was done with the accounts because Nationwide wouldnt allow 
anyone to access it without the appropriate order from the courts. 
It was at this time that J also told Nationwide they were the personal representative, so its 
not surprising that Nationwide told J they were already dealing with one and wouldnt deal 
with a second one.
Looking at the administration order issued by the court, its not dated until June 2021, so I 
dont think it would have been possible for Nationwide to accept that J were the appropriate 
personal representative until theyd received the necessary order. Once Nationwide received 
the order, J became the appointed personal representation for the estate.
I havent seen any particular delay caused by Nationwides approach to the administration of 
the account after Ms Rs passing. It appears there were competing interests at work with two 
people attempting to become the personal representative. Nationwides obligation was to the 
estate and as far as the evidence Ive seen goes, once Nationwide received the appropriate 
authority from the court in the form of the administration order, they accepted that J were the 
appropriate party to deal with. Prior to the receipt of the order, it wasnt clear who was going 
to be the authorised party. 
While I accept that J incurred legal costs, I dont think its Nationwides responsibility to repay 
them. It was Js choice to employ them, but without the order from the court, Nationwide 
couldnt release the accounts to J. It was the proper order from the court that enabled this.
Also, I understand that J wasnt the original executor of Ms Rs estate. It was originally a 
close family relative who hadnt been able to notify Nationwide about his role as executor. It 
wasnt until J took over and obtained Power of Attorney for his close family relative that 
enabled J to take over. Overall I havent seen any evidence that would persuade me that D was operating outside of 
the order, which would be required to hold Nationwide accountable for the payments 
questioned by J. Without that evidence, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require 
Nationwide to refund Ms Rs estate.
I also dont think that Nationwide are responsible for the legal expenses incurred by J and I 
wont be asking Nationwide to do anything concerning this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman