DRN-1958713
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2002 with 
an Egg credit card. Miss H says Canada Square Operations Limited trading as Egg, 
(Canada Square) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because and Ill explain why. 
Miss H says she was forced to take PPI and was told she wouldnt get the credit card without 
PPI. Canada Square says it was added to her account after she requested cover. Where 
there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the available 
evidence - this includes Miss Hs testimony and any documents both Miss H and Canada 
Square have submitted. 
Miss H says she applied for her credit card and PPI on the telephone. But shes previously 
also said shed been given a leaflet to complete. This policy was sold a long time ago so its 
understandable that Miss H might not remember details about what happened when she 
initially took it out. Canada Square has provided its computer record of her application and, 
in it, theres a record of her application method - this shows it was made on the internet. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely she applied for her credit card and PPI 
online. 
Canada Square has given us example screenshots of the sorts of questions it says Miss H 
wouldve been asked in her online application. These show that customers were given a 
choice to add or decline PPI. Canada Square provided its online customers with the option 
to either click Yes to add PPI, or No to decline it. I can also see from Canada Squares 
record of her application that PPI was selected. Nothing on these screens suggest the PPI 
was compulsory.  
Having thought carefully about everything Ive seen and heard, and while I appreciate 
Miss Hs strength of feeling regarding this, I think its more likely that Miss H clicked the Yes 
box and selected PPI. 
Weve seen a number of cases from around the time Miss H bought her PPI, and from what 
weve learned from those cases, Canada Square did usually make it clear online that 
customers could decline cover as part of its usual process. 
So, overall, I think Canada Square made it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Canada Square recommended the PPI to Miss 
H, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss H got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. 
I understand Miss H says her employer provided her with full sick pay although due to the 
time thats passed, she hasnt been able to provide details or evidence of exactly how much 
she would have got  as Ive said above, given how long ago this policy was sold, I think this 
is understandable. Miss H also adds she wouldve been entitled to redundancy pay. As 
Miss H was employed, I believe she mightve been entitled to some employee benefits if she 
was ever off work unexpectedly. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of her employee benefits for up to 12 months if 
Miss H couldnt work because illness, injury or unemployment. This would leave any 
payments she received from her employer available for her to use on other essential 
expenditure. So I think having a policy pay out in difficult times for up to 12 months would still 
have been useful for her. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover. 
With all this in mind, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Which means Canada Square 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because Canada Square didnt 
tell Miss H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Miss H any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman