DRN-3430833
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed his account and registered a 
fraud prevention marker against him.
Background
In April 2021, Mr A received a payment of £10,000.00 into his account. The majority of the 
funds were used for account transfers, cash withdrawals and card purchases over a period 
of around a fortnight. 
HSBC subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payment to Mr As account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. As a result, just over £3,200.00 of the funds were recovered. HSBC reviewed Mr As 
account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr As account and record a 
fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr A complained that this was applied unfairly. 
HSBC looked at Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr A remained dissatisfied he 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that HSBC did have enough to 
record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr As 
account in April 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr A was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
When initially questioned by HSBC, during the course of its investigation, Mr A said he didnt 
know anything about the funds. He then said the funds were sent by a friend for an 
investment of £5,000.00 and the extra was money he was owed. Mr A was asked to 
evidence this but was unable to do so. After his complaint was referred to us, Mr A told our 
adjudicator what he told HSBC wasnt true, he just said this as he didnt know what to say at 
the time.
Mr A then told our adjudicator that his mother and cousin knew the login details for his 
account. When told that this wouldnt explain the cash machine withdrawals or the card 
transactions, Mr A then said his cousin might have seen him enter his personal identification 
number (PIN) at a cash machine. He thought that his cousin accessed account and was 
responsible for all the activity which took place.
Ive thought about what Mr A now says. But, in truth, given the wildly inconsistent versions of 
events hes provided throughout the course of the investigation, its difficult to place much 
weight at all on what Mr A is now saying without anything to corroborate it. Ive also noted 
that Mr As account was only opened a matter of weeks before the fraudulent funds entered 
his account. 
Furthermore the transactions dispersing the fraudulent funds took place over a period of a 
couple of weeks and I would have expected him to have noticed that his card wasnt in his 
possession and reported it if that were the case. Im also mindful that there were some rather 
large payments to online retailers and this is likely to have resulted in more than Mr As PIN 
being compromised (which hes not even sure happened in the first place) and rather 
expensive items being delivered to him. In these circumstances, I think Mr A ought to have 
realised that he may have been receiving items he didnt purchase. 
Finally, there are a number of transfers to a crypto-currency account and another bank 
account in Mr As name. I think that it would be somewhat odd for a fraudster to arrange for 
fraudulent funds to be paid into an account they had control of and then transfer them out to 
another account. This is especially as Mr A hasnt said anything about his other accounts 
being compromised and therefore there is no indication that a fraudster would have been 
able to access those funds after the transfers. I simply cant see why a fraudster would take 
such a course of action.  Im afraid the implausibility of Mr As version of events coupled with Mr A being unable to 
provide anything at all to corroborate what he says means that I cant reasonably conclude 
he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was 
complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that HSBC did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr A was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for HSBC to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr As account. The terms and conditions of Mr As account 
permitted HSBC to close it where he was accessing or using an account, service or money 
illegally or fraudulently (or have done this in the past) or he was allowing someone else to 
do this. 
Ive already explained why I think HSBC was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr As 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted HSBC to close Mr As account.
So overall I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr A and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr A might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman