DRN-4324952
The complaint
S, a limited company complains about the way that GoCardless Ltd handled its attempts to 
correct financial information. 
Ss complaint is brought by Mr M, a director of S.
What happened
S has an account with GoCardless which allows it to receive direct debit (DD) payments 
from customers. S also uses accounting software provided by Xero which works together 
with GoCardless. 
In December 2022, S told GoCardless that its Xero dashboard showed a negative balance 
although it had a positive statement balance of more than £88,000.
GoCardless says that S raised the same concerns in mid-2021. GoCardless investigated 
and explained the issues had arisen because payments created in the GoCardless 
dashboard hadnt been accounted for within Ss direct debit account. GoCardless explained 
what steps S needed to take before sending it a new reconciliation report to review. 
Before coming to the Financial Ombudsman, GoCardless upheld Ss complaint as it 
acknowledged staff were side-tracked when dealing with Ss original complaint points but 
didnt offer any compensation. 
Our investigator recommended that Ss complaint be upheld and asked GoCardless to pay 
£100 compensation for the failure in customer service. Our investigator explained that he 
was only considering the points of Ss complaint that had arisen between December 2022 
and March 2023 when GoCardless issued its final response. Our investigator said that S 
would need to raise a new complaint with GoCardless if it wants us to consider what has 
happened since March 2023. 
Mr M disagrees with the proposed resolution of Ss complaint. He thinks £500 compensation 
is more appropriate. Mr M says that because of the delay, Ss final accounts were not 
produced on time, so a potential buyer of Ss business lost interest. Mr M says Ss quarterly 
VAT return was delayed. Mr M says the delay in resolving everything has been due to 
GoCardlesss lack of understanding of Ss complex query.
GoCardless disagrees with the proposed outcome. It says the reconciliation problems S has 
faced are because S has sometimes created payments outside of the GoCardless for Xero 
payment flow. 
GoCardless says that it suggested to S that it speak directly to Xero about any issues it was 
having with its VAT reporting the problems.
GoCardless says that it only partially upheld Ss complaint because it appeared from an 
agents response in January 2023, that it had not fully understood Ss complaint. GoCardless 
doesnt think that a support agent not providing a full response warrants an award of 
compensation, particularly as it has provided S with a dedicated point of support.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
II realise that I have summarised Ss complaint in less detail than the parties and that Ive 
done so using my own words. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow 
me to do so but this doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have 
given to us.
Although I appreciate Mr Ms frustration with GoCardless handling of the problems S has 
faced  it appears that most of the issues have arisen because S has created payments 
outside of the GoCardless for Xero payment flow. This has led to reconciliation problems 
because payments arent automatically accounted for within the Xero software. So, I cant 
reasonably find that GoCardless is to blame for most of the issues S has faced.
GoCardless has provided evidence that when S had similar problems in late 2021, it 
provided technical advice but Mr M didnt make the changes it suggested. When Mr M raised 
similar concerns, GoCardless provided further technical assistance. So, I cant reasonably 
find that GoCardless is responsible for any delay resolving the problem up to the point that it 
issued a final response to S. This makes it difficult for me to find that GoCardless should pay 
the level of compensation that Mr M would like.
However, I agree with the investigator that when Mr M raised his concerns again with 
GoCardless, it failed to address all the points he made. I consider the investigators 
suggestion of £100 compensation is reasonable. It reflects the inconvenience to S, when Mr 
M, as sole director of S had to spend more time contacting GoCardless than he otherwise 
should have, which in turn would have diverted his time away from running the business of 
S.
I understand that due to the complex nature of Ss latest query, GoCardless has needed 
extra time to investigate. If Mr M remains unhappy with the way that GoCardless has 
continued to handle Ss concerns since it sent a final response on 1 March 2023, he would 
first have complain to GoCardless before coming back to this service if he was unhappy with 
the response. 
Putting things right
GoCardless Ltd should pay S £100 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct GoCardless Ltd to put things right 
in line with the above direction. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman