DRN-3242501
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K) Limited (SunLife) to take out a Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan in 1997. He says he would have chosen one of the in-
house options if hed been made aware of them. He also complains that Sun Life ought to 
have included his plan in its review of FSAVC sales. 
What happened
Mr M was a member of the NHS pension scheme. In 1997 he met with Sun Life to discuss 
how to make up the shortfall in his service within the scheme. He agreed to take out an 
FSAVC plan with a net monthly contribution of £100.  He subsequently stopped making 
contributions in October 2011 and transferred the benefits to another provider. 
Mr M has also confirmed that in 2007 he started the process of purchasing an additional two 
added years of service in his pension scheme. 
But in November 2019 Mr M, using a representative, complained that the FSAVC plan had 
been mis sold. `He said he hadnt been made aware of the higher charges applied to this 
kind of plan and thought he should have been advised to use the in-house alternatives  
particularly added years.
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. It made the following points:
It believed its adviser would have discussed the generic differences document  
which was part of its standard advice process and would have made Mr M aware of 
the difference in costs.
The FSAVC mis selling review only obliged Occupational Pension Schemes with 
employer subsidised in-house options to be included. The NHS scheme wasnt 
subsidised as all the costs were borne by the member. 
It set out the regulators updated guidance from 1996 which explained the obligations 
of tied advisers when advising on FSAVC plans. It believed it had made Mr M aware 
of the generic differences between FSAVCs and AVCs and had referred him to his 
employer for further information about the in-house options. 
Mr M didnt agree with the outcome and brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She said the complaint shouldnt be upheld because 
she was satisfied Sun Life had discussed the generic differences between AVCs and 
FSAVCs with Mr M. 
She also thought Sun Life had acted reasonably by not including Mr Ms plan within its 
FSAVC review as the NHS pension scheme wasnt one of those required to be included.
Mr Ms representative didnt agree making the following points:
It wasnt satisfied that Mr M was given enough information at the point of sale to 
make an informed choice.
There was no evidence of an adequately detailed suitability report.
It didnt seem that the reasons Sun Life set out confirming its advice were in line with 
the reasons our technical help desk had confirmed were valid reasons for 
recommending a FSAVC plan. 
The recommendation favoured FSAVCs and didnt mention added years or that it 
was a risk free alternative.
It said that Sun Life had reached its conclusion on what it thought the adviser would 
have done but thought it was more likely that all the generic differences werent 
actually fully explained by the adviser.  
Added years wasnt discussed at any point during the sales process by Sun Life, 
and we hadnt subsequently considered it as an alternative within our assessment of 
the case. 
The representative said that if the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view then the 
complaint should be referred to an ombudsman. So it was passed to me for a review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I took a different view to that of the investigator and thought the 
complaint should be upheld. I said that Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in 
accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance  making the following points in 
support of my findings:
In 1996 the regulator issued the regulatory update RU20, which set out updated 
guidance for advisers  tied and independent, when recommending FSAVC plans. I 
thought Sun Lifes adviser had satisfied two of the three requirements when providing 
his advice, but hadnt recorded any discussion of the differences between the in-
house schemes and FSAVC plan  although he had referred to a generic document 
called a comparison of in-house AVCs and free standing AVCs, which Sun Life said 
was part of its standard sales process. 
I thought the content of the document met the requirements of RU20, but as Mr M 
hadnt signed the relevant section of the document I wasnt satisfied that the adviser 
had demonstrated that he did discuss the generic differences between the schemes 
 particularly as Sun Life relied on the fact that the document had been discussed to 
support its position.
I didnt think references to a discussion of generic differences was sufficient proof of 
the differences that should have been discussed  especially the lower charges of in-
house AVCs.
I had also considered whether Mr M would have purchased added years in 1997 as 
he subsequently did in 2007. I thought, on balance, it was likely Mr M would have 
thought the cost of added years was high compared with in-house AVCs. But I also 
noted that Sun Life said it had referred Mr M to his employer to understand the 
differences between the schemes. I thought this meant he would either had 
approached the employer and discovered that added years were an expensive 
option, or didnt approach the employer in which case he wouldnt have been aware 
of added years as an option at that time. 
Overall, I wasnt persuaded that Mr M would have chosen added years as an option. 
But I did think he would have chosen in-house AVCs  with their lower costs, if hed 
been made fully aware of the difference in costs between the schemes.
Responses to the provisional decision  
Mr M wanted me to reconsider my view on whether he would have taken out added years 
as an alternative to either in-house or free standing AVCs. He said I hadnt been aware that 
he worked abroad from 1990 to 1992  thereby adding three years shortfall to his service by the time he met with Sun Life. He said this meant that by age 60 he could only have 
achieved a maximum of 28 years service in the NHS scheme.
Sun Life didnt provide any substantive response to my provisional decision findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Mr Ms further submission about his overall service record 
within the NHS pension scheme, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
The suitability of Sun Lifes advice
In 1996 the regulator produced an update which included the procedures product providers 
needed to follow in relation to FSAVC plan sales. This update  named RU20  wasnt new 
guidance but reaffirmed existing requirements for tied advisers which was to have:
drawn the clients attention to the in-house scheme alternative
discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account, 
among other things, of the features described in this article)
directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information on 
the in-scheme option.     
In this case Sun Lifes suitability report noted whether the adviser did meet those 
requirements. It said that we have discussed the generic differences between in house and 
FSAVCs and I have referred you on to the superannuation department for a thorough 
understanding of the differences. So the adviser did draw Mr Ms attention to the in-house 
alternative and did direct him to his employer for more information on the alternatives. But I 
dont think the report confirmed sufficient details of a discussion of the differences between 
the two routes. 
But Sun Life said the adviser would have used a separate comparison of in-house AVCs 
and free standing AVCs document to confirm those differences  which was part of its sales 
process at the time. It provided a copy of the document and said the adviser referenced the 
discussion they would have had in his suitability report.
Having looked carefully at the document I do think it satisfied the RU20 requirements at the 
time. Particularly with regards to the charges, as it stated that charges on money purchase 
AVCs are usually significantly lower than on a FSAVC as the employer may meet all of the 
set up and administration costs. Often there will be no initial charges
So I would have been satisfied that all three of the requirements for tied advisers  as set out 
in RU20, would have been met, if I were persuaded the adviser had discussed the 
comparison document. 
Its not possible for me to know what was discussed in 1997 as theres no record of the 
actual conversation that took place. But I have considered that the separate document Sun 
Life has provided had a section for both Mr M and the adviser to sign to confirm that my 
adviser has fully explained all the features of in house AVCs and FSAVCs and that I 
understand the basis of the recommendation made. I havent been provided with a signed 
copy of the document and, as Sun Life has relied largely on the fact that the adviser would 
have discussed the document, I would have expected it to have been signed. In the absence of a signature I would have therefore expected a much clearer reference to 
the parts of the document that were discussed to have been included in the suitability report 
 such as the lower in-house scheme charges for example. But there wasnt any additional 
reference to those generic differences in the report, and as I said previously, without a 
signed copy of the document or additional notes to explain what was discussed its difficult to 
conclude that the adviser met those recommendation requirements outlined in RU20.
 
Consideration of added years as an alternative 
Mr M told us that hed been working abroad in the early 1990s so the gap in his overall NHS 
pension scheme service is less than I assumed in my provisional decision. He believes 
theres good reason to believe he would have chosen added years as an alternative  if 
hed been made fully aware of it at the time of the advice. 
Added years works in a different way to the other AVC type schemes. It makes up missing 
years of service to provide a guaranteed benefit based on a members final salary. It also 
makes up other lost benefits such as dependents pensions. But in 1997 the cost of added 
years would have looked expensive to Mr M compared to the returns and benefits of a 
FSAVC plan. A mid-range projection as laid out by the regulator would have been 9% at the 
time, so the FSAVC returns would have seemed generous compared with added years 
which would have potentially required far greater contributions to provide similar, albeit 
guaranteed benefits. 
But even if my assumptions are wrong, Ive taken into account that the suitability report said 
Sun Life had referred Mr M to his employer to understand the differences between the 
schemes. If Mr M had taken that course of action he would have learnt about added years 
and the cost involved. So if he didnt decide to purchase added years then I assume he 
discounted them on the grounds of expense. And if Mr M didnt refer to his employer he 
wouldnt have been aware of added years, and therefore it would have been unlikely that he 
would have chosen it as the most appropriate alternative scheme for him. 
Mr M has previously referred to the fact that he did take out added years in 2007 to show 
that he thought it was the most appropriate option for him  given all the information he was 
aware of at that time. I can understand why Mr M would refer to that event, although I 
understand the NHS scheme wrote to all members in 2007 to warn of the closure of the 
added years scheme from April 2008. So, I think on balance that was more likely to be the 
reason for Mr M purchasing added years in 2007. 
And even if Mr Ms overall maximum available service was three years less than I previously 
was made aware of, I dont think that made it more likely he would have taken out added 
years. I think it would have increased the overall cost of replacing those missing years and 
consequently might have made added years an even more expensive and less attractive 
alternative when compared to a FSAVC plan illustration. 
In my view the issue of added years seeming expensive when compared to the AVC 
options would have, on balance, prevented Mr M from choosing that option. 
So I think, for the reasons Ive already given, that Mr M would have been likely to have 
chosen the in-house AVC option if hed been made fully aware of the difference in the costs 
compared to the FSAVC plan.  
Putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) Limited should undertake a redress 
calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index 
isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 
1 January 2005, Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) Limited should use the 
CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor 
Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman