DRN-3851579
The complaint
This complaint is about a residential mortgage Mr M and Miss M hold with Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM). Mr M and Miss M complain that they lost out on a new 
fixed rate when their online application was stalled by a website crash.  
Its a joint mortgage and both borrowers have joined the complaint. But all of our dealings 
have been with Miss M. On the occasions I refer solely to Miss M, it can be inferred that I 
mean both of them.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr M, Miss M and VM. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our investigator didnt think VM 
had done anything wrong so didnt recommend it be upheld.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr M and Miss M being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what led to the 
complaint, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
VM wrote to Mr M and Miss M on 1 July 2022, inviting them to apply for a new rate in 
advance of their existing deal expiring in November 2022. Miss M went online, intending to 
book a five-year deal at 2.83%; unfortunately, when she clicked to confirm the request, the 
web page returned an error message leaving her unsure about whether the application had 
been registered. Miss M says she waited a week or so but received no further 
acknowledgement
A personal tragedy then pushed the issue to the back of Miss Ms mind, and when she came 
back to try again at the beginning of August 2022, the rate she and Mr M had wanted was no 
longer available. The available options were now around £100 a month more expensive. 
When Miss M complained, VM rejected the complaint and referred her to this service. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded VM had done anything wrong, so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss M have asked for a review by an ombudsman. Regrettably, the 
demand for complaints to be determined by an ombudsman is high, and Im conscious that 
Mr M and Miss M have waited a long time for their case to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
When a lender contacts borrowers whose rate product is nearing its expiry date with details 
of new products, the primary objective is business retention; lenders would prefer their 
borrowers to stay with them on a new deal rather than move to a different lender. 
It was just such a letter that VM sent Mr M and Miss M on 1 July 2022, which resulted in 
Miss M applying for the new five-year product online. Miss M is particularly unhappy that our 
investigator didnt press VM more deeply about the issue of the online error message, but as 
I said earlier, were not directed in our investigations by either party to a dispute. Its for us to 
identify the key issue(s) on which the outcome of a complaint will turn, and in the case 
before me here, the online error message is not what the outcome turns on. Ill explain why.
VM has said theres no evidence to indicate the error message that Miss M experienced was 
the result of a system failure at its end. Equally, Miss Ms service provider has sad much the 
same thing. If I were to insist on more evidence from VM, as Miss M has said I should, 
fairness would require that I ask her to obtain the same degree of evidence from her service 
provider in support of its statement. 
But this isnt a binary equation; the internet is a complex place, and a connection can fail for 
any one of a myriad of reasons that are nothing to with either the host or the user. 
Miss M says that the online service isnt fool-proof, but no communication channel ever is; 
phone connections can fail, letters get lost in the post. So the outcome of this case isnt 
dependent on the error message Miss M encountered; rather, it turns on what happened 
next. 
Miss M has told us that, unsure whether the application had registered, she did nothing 
initially. I dont mean to be unkind, but Im not sure that was the right thing to do. I think the 
prudent course of action to take would, to eliminate any uncertainty, have been to call VM on 
the number given in the 1 July 2022 letter.
I take Miss Ms point that phone calls can go unanswered for a long time, or sometimes get 
cut off; I come back to the point about no communication channel ever being fool-proof. 
Clearly thats a frustration in itself, but its not a reason to not call. When something as 
important as this is involved, I consider that making a call was a better option than not doing 
so, especially because the letter explained, more than once, that the deals on offer were 
only guaranteed to be available up to 22 July 2022. 
On that point, Im afraid I dont share Miss Ms view that the relevance of that date was 
unclear or mis-represented. This was a time when interest rates generally were increasing at 
regular intervals. It should have been possible to infer that any new rates that superseded 
those set out in the 1 July 2022 letter were more likely to be higher than lower.
Miss M has spoken with remarkable frankness about the family tragedy which then took her 
attention away from the application for a new rate. I wont repeat the details here out of 
respect for her privacy, but it was a truly shocking event that I have no doubt affected her 
mental health and wellbeing deeply. So I have to assess whether and what extent to which it 
impacted on the application for the new rate, 
In her phone conversation of 9 December 2022 with our investigator, Miss Ms recollection 
was that the event occurred on 18 July 2022. If so, this would be six days after the 
application was stalled by the error message, leaving only a few days before the guarantee 
period for the available rates would end. This corresponds with what Miss M told us about 
having not pursued the matter with VM initially. However, Ive already explained why I 
consider that was a missed opportunity on her part. Miss M told us the event in question was well-publicised at the time, such was the shocking 
nature of it. Ive looked at the news reports, and they indicate the event actually occurred 
later than Miss M has recalled, on 26 July 2022. I dont in any way infer from this that 
Miss Ms recollection was anything other than genuine and sincere; the available evidence 
suggests an honest mistake on her part. What it does mean, though, is that the window for 
applying for the five-year fixed rate of 2.83% had already closed, four days before.
Miss M could never have known that a horrible event was about to happen, that would 
distract her completely from the mortgage. Equally, however, this wasnt something VM 
could possibly have foreseen either. Given that it happened after the rate Miss M wanted 
had already been withdrawn, and bearing in mind Ive not found VM to have made a mistake 
or treated its borrowers unfairly up to this point, I cant then say that VM should be required 
to provide the rate Miss M was trying to apply for in mid-July 2022.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Miss M. Thats a 
natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as he has 
been here. 
But I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the 
fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable and pragmatic in all the 
overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to 
every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall 
outcome. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman