DRN-3175614
The complaint
Mr J complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), who declined his claim under his 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr Js local water company (LWC) told him that there were leaks in the mains water supply 
pipe to his home. They attended and repaired those leaks but later discovered that the pipe 
was still leaking. They sent out an engineer who concluded that there was a leak coming 
from within Mr Js home.
Mr J contacted Aviva to make a claim under his home emergency policy, as he said that he 
had been advised by his LWC that there were several leaks in the mains water supply pipe. 
And the way to fix this, was by replacing the entire pipe.
Mr J said that he experienced delays in Aviva processing his claim.  For example, the report 
from the LWCs engineer took about three months for it to be sent to Aviva.  He also 
explained that he was provided with different information from Aviva, such as his claim being 
declined as the leak was outside of his property.
Aviva did ultimately decline Mr Js claim. And in its final response, it accepted that there had 
been some customer service failings. But did not accept that the replacement of the pipe 
was covered under Mr Js policy. For the customer service issues, Aviva offered a total 
compensation of £240, which it said was made up of £160.40 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and £79.60 towards the cost of the repair of the pipe. 
Mr J wasnt happy as he had had to pay for the pipe to be replaced at a cost to him of 
£1,312.50, that he wanted Aviva to reimburse. So, he referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that the policy didnt cover for the replacement of the pipe and that there was no 
evidence to show the Mr J was advised to replace the entire pipe. His view was that the 
compensation offered was fair given the poor customer service Mr J suffered. So, there was 
nothing further he could ask Aviva to do. 
Aviva accepted the view. Mr J did not. He said that he was told to change the pipe as there 
were several leaks in the existing pipe and this would be the more economical way. He felt 
that his policy covered him for this and so asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr J will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this is 
fair.  
Mr J had a home emergency policy that provided cover for plumbing and drainage issues. 
He discovered a leak within his home and contacted Aviva to make a claim. The main issue 
of this complaint is whether Mr J was advised to replace the entire main water supply pipe 
and if so, whether under the policy Aviva shouldve replaced the pipe and not declined the 
claim. 
I reviewed the policy terms and conditions and what is covered under the plumbing and 
drains section. The policy provides for the following: will repair, unblock or repair the section 
of the pipe that is damaged. From this, I think Avivas obligation under the policy, was to 
repair the section of pipe that was damaged. Accordingly, I dont think it was unfair for it to 
have declined the claim, unless the only way to repair the pipe was to replace it entirely. 
Therefore, Ive had a look at whether the entire pipe needed to be replaced. 
Mr J said that he was advised that as there were several leaks rather than repair the pipe it 
would be better to replace the pipe. Aviva said that Mr J wanted to replace the pipe and as it 
was Mr Js decision to replace the pipe, this wasnt covered by the policy. 
I have considered the report from the LWC engineer. The report details the following: 
customer if possible, would like a new main moled into property via the stop valve just 
outside the front door if his policy covers this. 
I have also considered the report from Avivas engineer. That report said: have advised 
ph that lead wsp from front door into kitchen is leaking in several places, also advised ph 
that no point in repairing as it needs replacing.
Based on this, I think the Aviva engineer didnt give his opinion of whether the entire pipe 
should be replaced but was commenting on what Mr J had informed him. I say this as there 
is no evidence that the Aviva engineer had spoken directly to the LWC engineer. So, it is 
reasonable to assume that this information was provided to the Aviva engineer from Mr J.  
I also note that neither report mentions that there were several leaks in the water supply 
pipe. The report from the LWC engineer provides evidence of the location of the leak but 
also said: The section of pipe externally and internally was checked with the sensor and 
readout device and high levels of tracing gas was detected From this evidence, I think its 
reasonable to see why Aviva concluded that only a section of the pipe and not several 
sections of the pipe were leaking.  So, I think it was more likely than not, that only a section 
of pipe was damaged, and it wouldve been that section only, that would need to be 
replaced. Consequently, I dont think Aviva was unreasonable to have declined the claim, as 
the replacement of the entire pipe, wasnt covered in the policy
I have next looked at the offer of £240 made by Aviva and whether this offer is fair. I 
understand that Mr J would like Aviva to reimburse his costs of replacing the pipe. But as I 
have made a finding that this wouldnt have been covered by his policy, I must look at what 
wouldve been covered under his policy. 
The policy allowed for the repair of the pipe. Aviva offered £79.60, which would have been 
the cost it incurred to repair the pipe. Mr J has queried whether this amount wouldve been 
enough to cover the cost of an engineer to fix the leaking pipe. Mr J was asked if there was 
any further information that he wanted me to consider and didnt provide any information on 
what the potential cost could be for an engineer to repair the pipe. Aviva has provided evidence of the cost it would incur for the repair. In the circumstances, I think the £79.60 
offered is fair. 
Aviva accepted that there were customer service failings. These related to not only providing 
Mr J with incorrect information, but also delays in processing his claim. I think it is fair and 
reasonable that Aviva pay compensation for those failings and the offer of £160.40 is fair 
and in line with what I wouldve recommended, had Aviva not already done so. 
Although I understand that this will not be the outcome that Mr J wouldve liked, for the 
above reasons, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I think the offer of £240 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman