DRN-2353986
The complaint
Mr K complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) unfairly 
cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K took out a car insurance policy underwritten by Watford on 31 August 2019, with a start 
date of 5 September 2019. The policy was taken out using an online insurance intermediary, 
who Ill refer to as Company A, on a non-advised basis.
Several days after taking out the policy, Mr K received a notice of speeding from the police. 
The notice was dated 3 September 2019 and related to an incident on 24 August 2019. 
Mr K agreed to pay a £100 fine and an endorsement of three penalty points on his licence. 
Mr K told Company A about the points on his licence on 13 November 2019.
Company A wrote to Mr K on 21 November 2019 and asked him to contact it, as it said there 
was an outstanding issue with his policy. Mr K phoned Company A on 27 November 2019 
and it sent out a letter to him on the same day. This asked Mr K to provide the following 
documents in order to validate his policy:  
Mr Ks 14 year no claims discount
Proof of his occupation 
Proof of his address
A photograph of his vehicle and VIN 
The V5 document
Mr K provided various documents to Company A. It contacted him on 3 December 2019 and 
said Watford hadnt accepted his proof of occupation, as it was from 2017. It asked for a 
signed letter on company paper confirming his occupation, dated within 3 months. So Mr K 
provided a handwritten letter on headed paper. Company A then sent an email on 
5 December 2019 saying the letter hadnt been accepted by Watford and the policy would 
cancel. Company A sent a letter to Mr K on 6 December 2019 telling him that his policy had 
been cancelled. It said Mr K was due a refund of £143 and it charged a £75 cancellation fee. 
Mr K emailed Company A on the same day and said this was the third time he sent the 
requested information. He said emails received were contradictory, as one said he had until 
8 December 2019 to provide the information, while another said his insurance had been 
cancelled. Mr K complained to Company A.  
Company A responded on 20 January 2020. It said some documents Mr K provided were 
not acceptable to Watford. However, it said the customer service provided, when it asked for 
the documents, could have been better. So Company A offered £50 compensation for any 
stress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr K remained unhappy and so complained to this service. He said he was repeatedly asked 
for the same documents. Mr K said this situation has caused him a good deal of stress and 
his insurance now costs around £200 per year more, because hes had to declare he had 
insurance cancelled by Watford. Mr K said he shouldnt have been charged a cancellation 
fee and he was not refunded the £60 fee paid to the online broker. Mr K said he should have 
been given seven days notice of the cancellation, as he was put in a position where he was 
immediately unable to drive and had to arrange insurance before he could drive home. 
When our investigator contacted Watford and asked for an explanation about why the 
various documents Mr K sent hadnt been accepted, it said its main concerns related to the 
proof of occupation and address that were provided by Mr K. It said Mr Ks proof of 
occupation was not acceptable as it dated from 2017, whereas the policy began in 2019. It 
said the second letter was handwritten and did not specify Mr Ks job title. Watford also said 
the proofs of address sent by Mr K, namely a council tax bill, a HMRC letter and a BT TV 
renewal letter were not acceptable as they werent dated within the previous three months.  
Our investigator upheld Mr Ks complaint. She said the documents Mr K sent to Watford 
provided the information asked for. So there didnt appear to be a reason why the 
documents werent accepted. To put things right, our investigator said that Watford should: 
Refund the cancellation fee of £75.
Record the cancellation as if it was cancelled by Mr K. 
Provide Mr K with a letter explaining the cancellation was incorrect, so the premiums 
for his new policy can be adjusted to correctly reflect his position. 
Pay Mr K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the cancellation of 
the policy caused him. 
Company A responded to what our investigator said. It didnt agree to refund the £75 
cancellation fee and said the cancellation was valid as Watford didnt accept the proof 
proved by Mr K. But it agreed to record the cancellation as if it was cancelled by Mr K. 
Because Watford didnt agree with what our investigator said, this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint. 
Mr K contacted Company A in November 2019 to let it know he had recently received a 
speeding fine and penalty points on his licence. And it was because of this that Watford 
requested documents, as it wanted to check that the information he had provided it with 
when he applied for the policy was correct. And I think Watford acted fairly when it did this. 
But I dont think it acted fairly when it cancelled Mr Ks policy. The terms of Mr Ks policy say 
he should cooperate with Watford when it asks for documentation. And, from what I can see, 
Mr K provided the information Watford asked him to provide. Watford said its main concerns 
were about the proofs of address and occupation that Mr K sent to it. It said these werent 
acceptable. So Ive looked at each of these in turn. 
Looking first at Mr Ks proof of occupation, I can see that Mr K initially provided Watford with 
a contract that was dated from 2017. And so I think Watford acted reasonably when it said 
this wasnt acceptable, as it needed something more recent. So Mr K provided a hand-
written letter from his employer. I can see that this was on headed paper, was signed by his 
employer, was dated 3 December 2019 and confirmed his job title and length of time with 
that employer. Ive looked at the criteria outlined by Watford in the letter sent on 27 November 2019 and Im satisfied the letter provided by Mr K satisfies all of the criteria. 
So Watford acted unfairly when it said the proof of occupation submitted by Mr K did not 
meet the criteria set out by it. 
Ive then looked at the proof of address provided by Mr K to see whether it fits the criteria set 
out in the letter dated 27 November 2019. Mr K provided several proofs that were dated just 
outside the three months set by Watford. But he also provided an energy statement and 
statement cover letter from an insurance provider dated within three months of Watfords 
letter. So I cant see any reason why Watford didnt accept these as proof of his address. 
What this means is that Im satisfied Mr K provided Watford with the proof of occupation and 
address hed been asked to provide and so it acted unfairly when it cancelled his policy.  
I can see there were issues with how Company A communicated with Mr K and its already 
offered Mr K £50 compensation for the failings in the customer service it provided. And Mr K 
also complained about the broker fee charged by Company A. I dont intend to address 
these issues here, as this decision is about Watford and not Company A. 
Having his car insurance policy cancelled has caused a detriment to Mr K, so Ive looked at 
what steps Watford need to take in order to put this right. Mr K was charged a £75 
cancellation fee that he should not have been charged. The cancellation of the policy has 
also been recorded as cancelled by Watford, and so its likely Mr K has been paying higher 
premiums as a result of this. Mr K also found this a stressful experience and was put to 
some inconvenience when he was given insufficient notice of the cancellation and had to 
arrange cover while he was away from home.
Putting things right
 To put things right, Watford should do the following:
Refund the cancellation fee of £75.
Record the cancellation as if it was cancelled by Mr K and ensure motor industry 
databases are updated.  
Provide Mr K with a letter explaining the cancellation was incorrect. Mr K can present 
this to his current insurer so that premiums for his new policy can be adjusted to 
reflect the amount he wouldve paid if his policy had not been incorrectly cancelled. 
Pay Mr K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the cancellation of 
the policy caused him.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I require Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to put things right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman