DRN-3609960
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains Cabot Credit Management Group Limited did not treat Mrs S 
fairly when seeking repayment of debts they held in her name. 
Mrs S estate is represented by Mrs W.
What happened
Mrs S had two accounts held by Cabot. She was using a Debt Management Company 
(DMC) to help manage her accounts. 
The first account was acquired by Cabot in 2011. Mrs S agreed several payment plans 
during the life of this account and was making payments via her DMC. These payments 
however werent credited to her account with Cabot. 
The second account was acquired by Cabot in 2018. Attempts were made to contact Mrs S 
about this account and arrange a suitable repayment plan and eventually Cabot obtained a 
County Court Judgment (CCJ) for the debt on this account. They later obtained a Charging 
Order for the amount of the Judgment. 
Mrs W complained, on the estates behalf, that Cabot hadnt handled Mrs S accounts 
correctly. Cabot responded to say they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
An Investigator considered the complaint. She said, in summary, she thought Cabot had not 
made an error in trying to contact Mrs S about the accounts and that they didnt know about 
Mrs S full circumstances until April 2020  so they couldnt have taken this into account 
before then. 
Mrs W didnt agree. She said:
She remained unhappy Cabot had ever been in contact with Mrs S and had not acted 
appropriately in respect of her vulnerabilities. 
She was still concerned that payments that had gone astray and were only located 
after a number of years. 
Based on Mrs S bank statements, she wasnt sure the outstanding balance was 
correct on the first account. She also questioned to charges that were made to the 
account in September 2015. 
As Mrs W didnt accept the Investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision. Ive set out my findings again below and they form part of this 
decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry for Mrs Ws loss. Its clear that dealing with these complaints has come at 
an already stressful time. 
Im aware Mrs W also has concerns about the affordability of the original lending, but those 
concerns need to be directed to the original lenders. 
The first account
When a customer owes money to a financial business, its reasonable for them to contact 
the customer for repayments. If the customer is having financial difficulties, wed expect the 
business to treat the customer fairly. And if the customer is using a DMC, wed expect the 
financial business to talk to them about payments unless theres a reason they cant.
 
Its clear from the information Mrs W has provided, Mrs S suffered from a number of medical 
conditions and was vulnerable. 
Cabot acquired this account in June 2011 and their records show they began contacting 
Mrs S by letter and telephone to set up a repayment plan. Because of the time thats passed, 
Cabot hasnt been able to provide a copy of the Notice of Assignment (NOA) for the first 
account. And I dont think thats unreasonable. But I can see from their records, a NOA was 
sent to Mrs S in June 2011 when Cabot originally acquired the debt. This means itd legally 
bought the debt from the original lender. So, on balance, Im satisfied Cabot had a legitimate 
reason to be in contact with Mrs S about it. 
In February 2012, Cabot received contact from a Debt Management Company (DMC) on 
Mrs S behalf offering a repayment plan which was accepted by Cabot in April 2012. Prior to 
this, Cabot had been receiving payments which were being forwarded by the original 
creditor. So  as Mrs W didnt tell Cabot she was using a DMC  I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Cabot initially tried to get in touch with Mrs W directly when it first took 
over the account. 
In May 2012, a different DMC got in touch on Mrs S behalf offering a repayment plan with a 
different payment amount. Cabot again began contacting Mrs S directly again after this to 
understand Mrs S circumstances and check the new DMC were authorised to act on her 
behalf.  Based on the notes, Mrs S didnt respond to any of the letters Cabot sent or answer 
any of the calls until September and October 2012. During these calls, Mrs S explained to 
Cabot that the DMC was acting on her behalf and had been sending payments to Cabot 
monthly. But Cabots records didnt show these payments as being received. Neither party 
followed up on this, but both could have done more at this stage to solve the issue of the 
missing payments. 
After this Cabot began contact with the DMC and accepted their repayment offer in 
December 2012. But no payments were received from the DMC. 
In March 2013, as no payments had been received and thered been no other contact from 
the DMC, Cabot wrote to Mrs S. Between then and February 2014, further attempts were 
made to contact Mrs S as the DMC still hadnt been in touch. Again, as Cabot hadnt been 
able to establish contact with the DMC I dont think it was unreasonable for them to again try 
getting in touch with Mrs S directly.
 
In February 2014, the DMC wrote to Cabot again with a different repayment offer. Cabot 
accepted this offer but again payments were not received. So, after trying to get in touch with 
the DMC to understand why the payments were not being received  they again resumed 
contact with Mrs S directly.In May 2014, Cabot spoke to Mrs S by phone who confirmed shed been making payments 
via the DMC for a number of years. So, she said she would get in touch with them and a 
temporary hold was placed on the account to allow her time to do that  which is what Id 
expect.
Based on the records, it doesnt look like Mrs S came back to Cabot with any further 
information. So, they continued to try and contact her by letter and phone. At this point, 
letters explained that Cabot was considering obtaining a County Court Judgment for the 
debt. 
In June 2015, the DMC  over a series of phone calls  explained to Cabot they had been 
making payments but using the wrong reference number so thats why Cabot had no record 
of payments being made for Mrs S account. As a result, in July 2015, legal proceedings 
were stopped as payments had been located under the incorrect reference number.
 
I can see from the letters the DMC sent to Cabot that they had been using the wrong 
reference number in their correspondence for a number of years. As Cabot accepted 
multiple repayment offers and recorded them in the notes for Mrs S account, it seems they 
were able to match up these repayment offers and Mrs S account  in spite of the wrong 
reference number. So I think Cabot couldve done more to have located Mrs S missing 
payments, as it shouldve realised the DMC was using the wrong reference number and 
either corrected them or looked into whether it had received payments using the wrong 
reference number  especially since Mrs S had told them she had been making payments to 
the DMC. Had Cabot done so, I think its likely the missing payments couldve been resolved 
much sooner. 
Mrs S repeatedly told Cabot she had been making payments to the DMC. And for the 
reasons Ive explained, I think Cabot could have done more to locate these payments. I think 
Mrs S likely would have been worried that whenever she spoke to Cabot between 2012 and 
2015 they said they hadnt received any payments from her. And while I acknowledge Mrs S 
could also have taken more steps to locate the payments, I intend to find Cabot should 
reduce the balance of Mrs S account by £100 to reflect the fact they could have taken steps 
to resolve this issue sooner.
Mrs W is concerned that, because some payments went missing, the outstanding balance 
on Mrs S account isnt correct. 
Cabot have provided a copy of an email they received from the DMC in July 2015 setting out 
the payments they had made on Mrs S behalf. I can see from the payment history that most 
of the corresponding number of payments were credited to Mrs S account in September 
2015. There was one payment of £7.94 that didnt look like it had been allocated to Mrs S 
account but Cabot have agreed to add it now. So, Cabot has done what Id expect by 
moving Mrs S payments to the correct place.
Mrs W is also unhappy that there were charges applied to Mrs S account in respect of the 
legal proceedings that Cabot eventually agreed to stop because the payments were located. 
We asked Cabot about these costs and theyve now agreed to remove them from the 
balance of Mrs S account. I think this is fair since the legal proceedings, it seems, were only 
started because of the payments Cabot believed Mrs S hadnt been making.  
Mrs W is unhappy that Cabot ever made any attempt to contact Mrs S. She says this 
because Mrs S was making payments via a DMC. And so, Cabot should only have 
contacted them. But, its clear from the records Cabot only began contacting Mrs S when 
they couldnt get a response from the DMC. Its unfortunate that the DMC often did not respond to Cabots attempts to contact them. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Cabot 
to contact Mrs S in these circumstances  it was Mrs S that owed the money, not the DMC. 
And as Mrs S didnt respond to most of Cabots contact  they continued to try and get in 
touch with her. 
Mrs W is also unhappy Cabot began legal proceedings against Mrs S. She said this had a 
significant impact on Mrs S at the time and coincided with the death of Mrs S husband. I 
accept that it wouldve been very worrying for Mrs S to have received contact about the legal 
action and its unfortunate that this came at an already difficult time for Mrs S. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mrs S told Cabot about her difficult circumstances in 2015 so I dont 
think I can fairly say Cabot shouldve taken this into account, when they didnt know. 
Mrs W is unhappy Cabot didnt treat Mrs S appropriately considering she was vulnerable 
because she was in poor health when dealing with her. I can see that Mrs S made Cabot 
aware she was unwell in April 2020. After this, Cabot put a hold on Mrs S account for 60 
days  which is what Id expect it to do. Prior to this, it doesnt look like Mrs S had told Cabot 
about her full circumstances so again, I dont think I can fairly conclude Cabot shouldve 
done something different when they werent aware of Mrs S circumstances. 
Overall, Im satisfied Cabots contact with Mrs S about this account is as Id expect. But they 
should remove the legal fees from Mrs S account, add the missing payment to her account 
and reduce the balance by a further £100 for the reasons Ive explained above.
The second account
Cabot acquired this account in April 2018. Cabot has provided a copy of the NOA for this 
account. So, Im satisfied Cabot had legally purchased this debt and had a legitimate reason 
to be in contact with Mrs S about it.
Cabot (and their solicitors) attempted to contact Mrs S a number of times by letter and 
telephone between April and August 2018 but received no response. Mrs S did respond to 
the claim form that was issued in September 2018  to say she disputed the claim and 
required further information about the debt as she didnt know what the claim was about.
After this, Cabots solicitors wrote to Mrs S a number of times about the claim but received 
no response. In July 2019, they wrote to Mrs S again, this time enclosing documentation 
relating to the claim and asked Mrs S to respond within 14 days otherwise proceedings 
would continue. As no response was received from Mrs S. A hearing date was set for 
February 2020 and the judgment was awarded to Cabot in March 2020. 
Again, while I acknowledge Mrs S was vulnerable at this point  it doesnt look she made 
Cabot or their solicitors aware and as she did not respond to their attempts to contact her, 
they continued with the legal proceedings. As Ive mentioned, it looks like Mrs S didnt tell 
Cabot the full extent of her circumstances until April 2020  so after the judgment was 
obtained. So, I dont think I can fairly say they shouldve taken this into account particularly 
since they werent aware of it at the time. 
Im satisfied Cabot handled this account and their contact with Mrs S as Id expect. 
Provisional Decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I plan to partially uphold the estate of Mrs S complaint. 
To resolve things, I intend to require Cabot Credit Management Group Limited to:
remove the legal fees  totalling £858 - from the balance of Mrs S account.reduce the balance by £7.94 to reflect the payment that had not been added in 2015. 
reduce the balance by a further £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W replied. She said, in summary, she still felt Cabot hadnt acted appropriately in 
respect of Mrs S vulnerabilities. In particular, she said:
Cabot should have spotted signs of vulnerability because Mrs S was using a DMC 
and bearing in mind their customer base. 
Cabot had all the information they needed to locate the missing payments and didnt. 
When the legal proceedings on the second account were being taken, Mrs S was in 
hospital. 
Cabot said they accepted my findings in part but did not think they were wholly responsible 
for the issue of the missing payments. They said they had nothing further for me to consider.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W remains unhappy that Cabot didnt do more in relation to Mrs S vulnerabilities. But 
Mrs W was also unhappy that Cabot made any attempt to contact Mrs S. 
I explained in my provisional findings why I didnt think Cabot attempting to contact Mrs S 
was unreasonable on the occasions they had been unable to get a response from the DMC. 
Cabot were aware Mrs S was using a DMC and she had mentioned being unwell in a phone 
call in 2012. So I think Cabot were on notice that Mrs S was potentially vulnerable. But, as 
Mrs S rarely responded to their contact, Im not sure how Cabot couldve established further 
details of Mrs S circumstances in order to assess any vulnerabilities or opportunities to 
support her. And, on the occasions Mrs S did respond to Cabots contact, it seems she didnt 
tell them about her circumstances. So, I dont think I can fairly say Cabot shouldve done 
more. 
I agree with Mrs W Cabot couldve done more to locate the missing payments. But, while I 
understand why Mrs S might have felt she didnt, or shouldnt have to, follow this up  she 
too was aware payments were not being received by Cabot and seemingly didnt attempt to 
chase this up herself. So Im satisfied what Im going to require Cabot to do fairly reflects the 
impact this had on Mrs S. 
Finally, in relation to the second account Mrs W has explained in March 2020, prior to the 
judgment being obtained Mrs S was hospitalised and so wasnt able to engage with the 
process. I accept that was the case but Cabot werent aware of this. Mrs S had not 
responded to any contact attempted by Cabot on this account since September 2018. So I 
still dont think it would be fair to say Cabot shouldve taken this into account when they 
werent aware of it. 
So Im not persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the estate of Mrs Ss complaint. 
To put things right, I require Cabot Credit Management Group Limited to:
remove the legal fees  totalling £858 - from the balance of Mrs S account. 
reduce the balance by £7.94 to reflect the payment that had not been added in 2015. 
reduce the balance by a further £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman