DRN-4099453
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined her travel insurance claim.
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Miss Rs policy. Part 3 sets out what is 
and isnt covered for property under the travel policy. There is cover for baggage hat 
is lost, stolen or accidentally damaged during the trip but there is no cover for any 
claim for loss or damage caused by wear and tear or loss of value. 
The information provided by Miss R to UKI shows the games console that shes 
claiming for worked intermittently so its not unreasonable for UKI to ask for a 
damage report to be provided by Miss R to substantiate her claim. There are also 
notes that show Miss R informed UKI the console was being used in the sun and it 
was overheating. I can see that also Miss R no longer had the console to evidence 
the damage. She also says that she no longer has a receipt for the purchase.
Miss Rs policy only covers for items that are accidentally lost or damaged and not for 
wear and tear or manufacturing issues. Its not clear in the evidence provided what 
happened to the console and there isnt sufficient evidence provided for the damage 
caused to the console either. UKI has said to Miss R that if she is able to provide a 
damage report, its claims team can review the claim again. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
With regards to the claim for the mobile phone, the claim would only be considered 
for cover if there is no other insurance policy that provides cover for this. UKI has 
said it would need confirmation from the relevant insurer that it is not providing cover 
for the mobile phone. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Rs policy and 
there is no cover for property which is insured by another policy. Miss R should 
contact her mobile phone insurer if she hasnt already done so. Also, while Miss R 
would like UKI to pay the excess she had to pay to the mobile phone insurer, this 
isnt covered under her travel policy. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ive considered the £100 compensation offered by UKI for the claims handling and 
the delays and issues with communication. I agree that the service provided could 
have been better  Miss R had to chase numerous times and request updates. I 
appreciate it was upsetting for Miss R. But I think the £100 compensation offered by 
UKI in recognition of the poor service is fair and reasonable in the overall 
circumstances.
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint. It follows that I dont 
require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint about U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman