DRN-3280958
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given incorrect information by ReAssure Limited about his 
pension.
What happened
Mr P received a letter with projections for his pension policy in early April 2020.  It showed 
the retirement income he could receive at age 75 as £4,630 per year. The letter explained 
that his policy included a guaranteed retirement income.
On 14 April, Mr P called ReAssure to discuss the projections and his options with the 
guarantee. He was told in the call he could have an annual income immediately of 
£5,055.84. He was 70 at the time.
Mr P queried why this figure had not been included in his projections. He says the call 
handler did not know why this was the case and could not answer his questions. It was 
agreed he would be sent a letter providing answers. 
The same day ReAssure sent a letter to Mr P. Whilst it provided some information Mr P 
requested, it didnt answer the main issue which was what actual benefits Mr P could take 
from the policy at the time and why the figures in the projections and over the phone differed.
Mr P complained on 22 April and was sent a response letter dated 21 May which explained 
that the information he had been given over the phone had been incorrect. Reassure 
acknowledged that the follow up letter on 14 April also didnt address Mr Ps questions. He 
was entitled to an income of £5,055.48 per year at age 75. The figure of £4,630 in the 
projections at age 75 was his income adjusted for inflation to show what his pension of 
£5,055.84 would be worth in todays money. 
He was told he could take benefits before 75 and was promised to be sent details how to 
take his pension benefits immediately which were sent to him by letter of 26 May. It showed 
Mr P could take benefits at the time of £3,700 per year (which compared to around £1,550 
per year if he used his policy to buy an annuity on the open market).
Reassure apologised for the errors made and offered £200 compensation.
Mr P referred his complaint to us. Hes unhappy that the call handler couldnt give him clear 
information and when his query was handed over to someone else to explain answers in 
writing, he still didnt receive the information he required. He is frustrated with ReAssures 
customer service and lack of communication skills which caused him confusion and 
disappointment. 
Mr P thinks ReAssure should honour the annual income of £5,055.84 they quoted him on the 
phone. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In her view, Mr P was never entitled to the 
higher annual income that was incorrectly quoted to him over the phone before age 75. So 
even if ReAssure had given him correct information straight away, he still would only be 
entitled to what he is now. So she didnt think it was fair to ask ReAssure to pay a higher 
income to Mr P than he was entitled to. She thought the £200 compensation offered for the 
frustration and confusion caused in the circumstances was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator for the same reasons.
There is no dispute that Mr P was given incorrect information in the phone call of 14 April 
and the situation was exacerbated by the follow up letter not clarifying Mr Ps most important 
questions.
I understand that Mr P is disappointed with ReAssure and that this matter has caused him 
inconvenience and frustration. And I agree that this should have been handled more 
professionally. However, mistakes can happen and ReAssure has apologised and has said 
they have passed on feedback to the relevant teams to avoid this happening in future.
What Im considering is whether Mr P has lost out as a result of ReAssures errors and what 
fair and reasonable compensation is in the circumstances of the complaint.
Ive carefully looked at the documents available from Mr Ps policy and the projection letter 
he received in early April. ReAssures explanations in their complaint response of 21 May 
make sense. Mr P is entitled to a guaranteed income at 75 which is reduced if he takes it 
earlier. The projection letter confirms that the figure quoted at age 75 is adjusted for inflation.
So Im satisfied he received correct information in May  and he was never entitled to a yearly 
income of over £5,055.84 before age 75. I appreciate hes disappointed that hes not able to 
receive the higher income earlier, as suggested in the phone call with ReAssure. However, 
my aim is to ensure Mr P isnt disadvantaged financially by ReAssures errors. As far as I 
can see hes in the same position he always would have been in, even if he had received 
correct and clear information earlier. Asking ReAssure to honour the incorrect income 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances.
As I said previously, I acknowledge that Mr P has been caused frustration, disappointment 
and inconvenience by ReAssures errors. However, I also have taken into account that some 
of his questions (albeit I note not the most pertinent ones) were answered in the letter of 14 
April and, in my view, a fairly comprehensive explanation together with his pension options 
at the time were provided five to six weeks after he called ReAssure to query his options. So 
considering the timeframes involved, the errors made as well as the impact these had on Mr 
P, I think the £200 offered by ReAssure is reasonable compensation in the circumstances of 
this complaint.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Nina WalterOmbudsman