DRN-4064100
The complaint
Miss H complains that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited, trading as My Community Bank, 
and who Ill call Brent Shine, were wrong to report a missed payment to her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss H, but I dont think Brent Shrine have done anything wrong 
here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The fixed sum loan agreement Miss H had with Brent Shrine said:
If you do not pay any amount due under this Agreement on time, we can report your late 
payments or default to credit reference agencies.
Brent Shrine have an obligation to report performance on consumers bank accounts 
correctly. The account was on hold for a period at the start of 2022. No payments were 
received in February and March and a reduced payment was received in January. By the 
end of March 2022, the account was about £983 in arrears, and Miss H agreed to overpay 
for a few months in order to clear those arrears. But after the first overpayment was received 
the account was still in arrears so I dont think Brent Shrine were wrong to report a missed 
payment for that month, and I cant see they told Miss H they wouldnt do so.
Im not therefore asking Brent Shrine to remove the missed payment as I think it was 
reported accurately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman