DRN-3973897
The Complaint
Mr D says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product.
The complaint is in Mr Ds name because he was named on the credit agreement that gave 
rise to the claims in question. But as the holiday product at the centre of this complaint was 
purchased by Mr D and his wife (Mrs D), Ill refer to both of them at times during this 
decision.
Background to the Complaint
From the information Ive seen so far, Mr and Mrs D appear to have made the following 
purchases from a third party (the Supplier) using finance from BPF in either 
Mr and/or Mrs Ds names:
Date Resort(s) Borrower(s)
A18 June 2007
(the Time of Sale)Beverly Hills Club
Beverly Hills Heights
Hollywood Mirage ClubMr D
B 27 June 2007 Hollywood Mirage Club Mrs D
C 28 October 2007Beverly Hills Heights
Club Paradiso
Hollywood Mirage ClubMrs D
D 8 June 20081Beverly Hills Heights
Club Paradiso
Hollywood Mirage ClubMr & Mrs D
Unhappy with the purchases, Mr and Mrs D  using a professional representative (LF)  
wrote to BPF on 13 November 2019 to make claims for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract as well as an unfair relationship in relation to every purchase.
1 The information in this row is based on two separate final response letters BPF sent Mr and Mrs D on 4 May 2022. Both of 
them appear to have used credit from different accounts, provided by BPF, to help finance the purchase in question.
However, while I recognise that Mr D may see all of the purchases Ive listed in the table 
above as one, this particular complaint only concerns BPFs handling of claims in relation to 
Purchase A because:
1. It was only Mr D who used credit in his name to pay for Purchase A (the Purchase). So,
he is the only person eligible to complain about the claims that were made in relation to
the Purchase.
2. The complaints about claims in relation to Purchases B and C are better dealt with in
separate complaints in Mrs Ds name as it was credit granted to her by BPF that was
used to pay for those purchases  making her the only eligible complainant as far as
those complaints are concerned.
3. As both Mr and Mrs D appear to have used credit in their own names to pay for 
Purchase D, a complaint about claims in relation to that purchase are better dealt with in 
a separate complaint in both of their names.
As a result, the focus here is on what LFs letter of claim had to say in relation to Purchase A 
(the Letter of Claim). And, in summary, this is what the Letter of Claim said:
The product in question was sold as an investment that would increase in value and
could be easily sold on at a later date.
Mr and Mrs D were promised holidays across the world when and whenever they wanted 
them. But when it came to booking their holidays, there was limited availability  contrary
to what was promised at the Time of Sale.
Mr and Mrs D received an email in March 2018 from the Supplier saying that it was 
closing down the part of its business that helped members sell on their membership. And
it was that email that put them on notice that their membership had been 
misrepresented.
The Supplier acted recklessly and didnt apply due care to Mr and Mrs D given their 
needs and financial circumstances.
The Supplier failed to take reasonable steps to ensure the product was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs D.
It doesnt look like Mr D or LF got a response from BPF to the Letter of Claim. So, a 
complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 12 February 2020.
On 14 February 2022, BPF emailed an investigator setting out its position on the complaint 
insofar as it relates to Purchase A. And, in summary, it thought that the claims for
misrepresentation and an unfair relationship2 had been made out of time under the
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who, having considered Purchase B instead 
of A, rejected it on the basis that the claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship 
had been made out of time under the LA.
M, the professional representative now acting for Mr D (M), disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision without giving any reasons why. As a result, the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD). And, in summary, I thought Mr Ds claims for 
misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA were 
likely to have been out of time under the LA  such that BPF had a defence to both and 
didnt have to do anything to put things right in this complaint.
2 Based on the fact that it says the relevant credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) ended on 8 May 2008 when Mr Ds 
account was closed.BPF had nothing further to add. Mr D spoke to the investigator over the phone following my 
PD. And, in summary, he said that there wasnt a BPF representative present at the Time of 
Sale. So, the Purchase was mis-sold for that reason. He also suggested that he couldnt 
have made his claims any earlier than he did because he didnt have cause to.  
As the deadline for responses to my PD has been and gone, the complaint was passed back 
to me for a Final Decision. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld - which I realise will 
be disappointing for Mr D. 
But before I explain why, I want to touch on the Suppliers liquidation in 2020 as it seems to 
me thats why Mr D says he couldnt have claimed any earlier than he did because he didnt 
have cause to. From the information Ive seen, Club Paradiso was the only club to have 
closed following that event. The likes of Beverly Hills Club/Heights and Hollywood Mirage 
continued to operate. And as they were the only clubs listed on the purchase agreement 
from the Time of Sale (rather than Club Paradiso), it seems to me thats why (1) the Letter of 
Claim didnt include an allegation of breach of contract for reasons relating to the Suppliers 
liquidation and (2) BPF didnt make Mr D an offer for breach of contract in relation to the 
Purchase.
So, with that being the case, and in keeping with my PD, this Final Decision only deals with 
BPFs handling of claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship in relation to 
Purchase A.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And the limitation period to make such a 
claim expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of 
the LA).
When a consumer uses certain types of credit to pay for goods or services, and they want to 
make a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier of those goods or services, they can 
 in certain circumstances  make a like claim against the creditor under Section 75 of the 
CCA. The claim against the creditor essentially mirrors the claim the consumer could make 
against the supplier provided it satisfies certain conditions, which includes being made inside 
the relevant limitation period i.e., six years. 
A claim under Section 75 is also an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment 
under Section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is also six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr D entered into the 
purchase agreement and used the credit available to him under the Credit Agreement. I say 
this because he entered into the purchase agreement based on the alleged 
misrepresentations of the Supplier  which he relied on. And as the finance from BPF was 
used to help pay for the Purchase, it was when he used the credit available to him under the 
Credit Agreement that he suffered a loss.It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued when Mr D entered into the purchase 
agreement or, if later, when he used the credit available to him under the Credit Agreement 
to finance the Purchase  which means he had six years from either of those points in time 
to make this claim. But as he didnt complain to BPF until November 2019, and as I still cant 
see a reason why he had more time to make his claim in keeping with the relevant 
provisions of the LA, his claim is likely to have been late even if it had been submitted to 
court.
To be clear, only a court can decide whether Mr Ds claim was made out of time under the 
LA. But as its relevant law, I have to take it into account when deciding a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. With that being the case, I think BPF had and has a 
defence to Mr Ds claim for misrepresentation under the LA given its timing. And for that 
reason, I dont think theres anything BPF needs to do to put things right here.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr D and BPF was 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does as BPF says the Agreement ended on 8 
May 2008 when Mr Ds account was closed.
However, as I said in my PD, the LA also applies to claims under Section 140A. And as the 
limitation period is six years from when Mr Ds account was closed, and as the claim under 
Section 140A was only made in November 2019 (when I still cant see a reason why hes 
likely to have had more time to make his claim in keeping with the relevant provisions of the 
LA), I think BPF is likely to be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to this claim too.
So, I still see no reason to ask BPF to do anything further in relation to Mr Ds Section 140A
claim either.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman