DRN-2637003
The complaint
Mr W complains Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible when it increased his credit limit 
from 2010 onwards.
What happened
Mr W has a credit card issued by Capital One  he opened the account in October 2009.
Capital One increased the credit limit on Mr Ws credit card in January 2010 and on several 
other occasions after that.
In February 2020 Mr W complained to Capital One saying that it was irresponsible of it to 
increase his credit limit. Capital One investigated Mr Ws complaint and said that it didnt 
agree, and that it had carried out appropriate checks. Mr W was unhappy with Capital Ones 
response and so complained to us. He said hed been making minimum payments 
throughout the time he was being offered credit limit increases, and that he had taken out a 
large number of payday loans. He also said he took out a large secured loan in 2015 to 
consolidate his debts. He used that loan in part to pay off the balance he owed Capital One. 
He said that Capital One should have seen he was struggling with his finances when it 
offered him credit limit increases.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint and explained that because of time 
limits we cant look at every complaint thats referred to us. Our investigator explained that 
these time limits meant we couldnt look into Mr Ws complaint about Capital One increasing 
his credit limit in 2010. But we could look at Capital One increasing his limit between 2014 
and 2018. Our investigator said that they thought the checks Capital One had carried out 
before those increases were adequate. So they didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W 
disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So 
thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In a case like this, the first thing I have to consider is whether or not Capital One carried out 
appropriate checks before it offered to increase Mr Ws credit limit. Capital One has been 
able to send us evidence of the checks it carried out. Those checks showed Mr W was 
managing his account well, and that hed not made any late payments and that no late 
payment charges had been applied. The data Capital One had on Mr Ws income, and the 
data it received from the credit reference agencies gave no indication that it would be 
irresponsible to increase Mr Ws credit limit, or that his borrowing would become 
unaffordable.
Given what Ive just said, I agree with our investigator that Capital One didnt act 
irresponsibly when it offered to increase Mr Ws credit limit at various points between 2014 
and 2018. I can see that Mr W has been making minimum payments on his credit card for a 
while now, and by the looks of it he has been sent persistent debt letters. I appreciate too 
that this decision will be disappointing for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman