DRN-3265013
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way BUPA Insurance Limited handled a claim under his private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P holds a private medical insurance policy with BUPA; its a joint policy providing cover 
for Mr P and his wife.
In early 2020, Mr P underwent surgery for a problem with his shoulder. Unfortunately, he 
needed to stay in hospital a little longer than expected due to complications.
BUPA didnt agree to fund the additional nights in hospital. It said the extended stay was not 
related to the problem with his shoulder but connected to a condition that was excluded 
under Mr Ps policy terms. 
Following his shoulder surgery, Mr P was referred to a consultant to have surgery for the 
condition that had caused his extended stay. Again, BUPA declined to cover the costs due to 
the exclusion on Mr Ps policy.
Mr P is unhappy for several reasons.  
Hes unhappy BUPA didnt advise him of the risks associated with the first surgery. He thinks 
it should have warned him about potential complications, knowing his policy carried an 
exclusion.
He thinks BUPA took too long to tell him it wouldnt cover the second surgery. And because 
of the delay, he had no option but to go ahead and pay for the procedure himself.
Because his second surgery wasnt covered, he believes he was mis-sold his policy.
And hes unhappy BUPA didnt handle his original complaint  in February 2020 - in the way 
it should have.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps concerns but didnt think BUPA had done anything 
wrong. He was satisfied BUPA had acted in line with the policy terms and had declined 
cover for the second procedure without unnecessary delay. He didnt think the policy had 
been mis-sold or that BUPA had not handled Mr Ps complaint fairly.
As Mr P remains unhappy, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responsibilities placed on BUPA by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA).  The FCA Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) expects insurers to 
handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive also considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy with BUPA. The policy terms 
are important as they set out the details of the contract between by the parties.
I understand Mr P feels very strongly about BUPAs handling of his claim but based on 
everything provided to me, I agree with the findings of our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Let me explain.
Treatment for pre-existing conditions
Mr Ps policy carries an exclusion for a condition that pre-dates his current policy. The 
exclusion is listed on Mr Ps membership certificate under the section titled Special 
Conditions. Im satisfied his extended stay in hospital, and the reason he needed a second 
operation, relate to this excluded condition. The medical report from his consultant confirms 
that to be the case.
Mr Ps policy with BUPA includes information about treatment connected to an excluded 
condition. It says:
Eligible treatment, benefits and limitations
We do not pay for Treatment for any Special Conditions detailed on your 
Membership Certificate or any pre-existing conditions
Im satisfied BUPA has acted in line with the policy terms.
During its contact with Mr P  from February 2020 to the time of his second surgery in July 
2020  BUPA hadnt given authority for the treatment costs to be covered under his policy. 
BUPA sought additional information to ensure it assessed his request for cover correctly, 
and that information was provided to BUPA four days before it made its final decision. The 
four days spanned a weekend. I appreciate that meant the final decision was made the day 
before Mr Ps surgery was due to take place, but I dont think BUPA mis-managed his 
expectations or could have reasonably acted more quickly in the circumstances.
I also dont think BUPA were responsible for alerting Mr P to any potential complications of 
his first surgery. BUPAs responsibility is to pay eligible medical expenses in line with the 
policy terms but its not responsible for decisions about clinical care or the potential risks of 
any treatment. 
Policy sale
Mr P has provided me with BUPA claim statements dating back some years; I can see he 
previously held another policy with BUPA. But Im not satisfied that means his current policy 
was mis-sold to him or that he wasnt aware his current policy carries an exclusion. 
Ive been provided with the call notes from the time of the sale, and information that shows 
Mr P and his wife completed a new medical history declaration at the time the new policy 
was taken out. Hes also received renewal documents each year, since 2013, which show 
the exclusion. 
I cant say why Mr P took out a new policy but the completion of the medical history 
declaration in 2012, and related documentation, persuades me Mr P was aware he was 
taking out a new policy and that the new policy would exclude certain conditions.Complaint handling
I understand Mr P is unhappy with BUPAs handling of a complaint he raised in February 
2020.  But having listened to the call with the BUPA adviser, I cant say BUPA did anything 
wrong. The adviser asked if Mr P wanted to make a complaint and he declined. I know its 
difficult to remember things that have happened some time ago but based on this call 
recording, I dont think BUPA needed to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking BUPA Insurance 
Limited to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman