DRN-3209230
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1997. 
Mrs S and the estate of the late Mr S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) 
mis-sold the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
here. Mr and Mrs S were both employed at the time and cover was on both Mr and Mrs S. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Halifaxs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr and Mrs S paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ss representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments they had previously made. 
Mrs S also requested an ombudsmans decision. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like the sale to Mr and Mrs S. I havent set out that 
detailed information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, was fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mrs S has said the PPI was just included with the mortgage. I give her recollections 
some weight, but I also take into account she set these out for us more than 20 years 
after the sale  so it wouldnt be surprising if she didnt recall all the details. With this in 
mind, what she recalls isnt, on its own, enough to make me think Halifax just added the 
PPI without giving her and Mr S a choice about it  and I havent seen anything else to 
make me think this. For example, I havent anything to make me think Halifax wouldnt 
usually have given customers like Mr and Mrs S a choice about the PPI and got their 
agreement to it before setting it up for them.
Also, Mr and Mrs S took the PPI when applying for a further advance on their existing 
mortgage. To take the PPI they signed a Mortgage Repayments Insurance Application 
form, separate from the further advance application itself. So I think they agreed to apply 
for the cover and I think the use of a separate form wouldve tended to indicate that the 
PPI was something separate from the further advance loan application and something 
about which Mr and Mrs S had a separate decision to make. Also, nothing on either form 
said Mr and Mrs S had to take the PPI or had to sign the PPI application form to apply for 
cover if they didnt want cover.
With all Ive said above in mind, on balance what I have makes me think it more likely 
Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take the PPI and they chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, shows it wasnt 
unsuitable for them. For example, they were eligible for the cover and what Mrs S has 
told us about the sick pay they had makes me think it likely they wouldve suffered a loss 
of income if either one of them, or both, couldnt work for a longer time due to disability or 
unemployment  and the policy benefit wouldve been useful to them in that situation. So 
I think they had a need for the cover. Also, they didnt have pre-existing health issues the 
policy wouldve excluded and nothing about their employment or jobs wouldve made it 
hard to claim. Also, I dont think the cover was unaffordable for them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found they chose to take it, and I dont think they wouldve 
taken it without at least a broad idea of what it covered - so it looks to me like they 
wanted this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for them, as I concluded above, and it 
seems like it wouldve been useful for them if either Mr or Mrs S or both were to have 
become unable to work in the circumstances the policy covered. Also the PPI application 
form they signed gave an indication of the likely cost. Overall I dont think the cover was 
too dissimilar to its likely Mr and Mrs S thought they were buying from the information its 
likely they were given  and, with this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think they 
wouldve declined it had Halifax done anything more in terms of the information it gave.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale and despite 
its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt unsuitable for them  and I think they 
wouldve still thought they had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs S wouldve still taken the PPI, given their circumstances at 
the time of sale. I think it couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time were Mr S or 
Mrs S, or both, to have become unable to work in the circumstances the policy covered. I 
also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely Mr and Mrs S thought they were getting. 
And, in those circumstances, I think it likely they wouldve taken it in any event.
Mrs Ss representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mrs Ss representatives have not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these points 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S and the 
estate of Mr S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, was fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax at the time of the sale didnt tell Mr and Mrs S about the high levels of commission 
and profit share paid in this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mr and Mrs S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case;
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs S because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMrs Ss representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on the complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs S and the estate of the late Mr S should get back all the 
money Mr and Mrs S paid for the policy because: Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs S about 
the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because Mrs Ss representatives say that meant the policy was poor 
value, they say I should find Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have taken the policy had they known 
about the level of commission and they say that Mrs S and the estate of the late Mr S should 
receive a refund of all the premiums Mr and Mrs S paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs S and the estate of Mr S in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not 
disclosing the high level of commission to Mr and Mrs S before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ss representative suggests, driven to conclude that Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return to Mrs S and the estate of the late Mr S some of the money Mr and Mrs S paid for 
their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs S 
and the estate of the late Mr S in the same position as if Mr and Mrs S had taken the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken if Halifax had done everything it should 
have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. Halifax has sent us a 
letter to show it paid this sum direct to Mrs S in October 2018. As Halifax has already paid 
Mrs S compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything further.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint of Mrs S and the estate of Mr S 
or make any award in their favour for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mrs S and the estate of the late Mr S an amount equivalent 
to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable. As Bank of Scotland plc has already paid compensation on this 
basis, I do not consider that Bank of Scotland plc should do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S and the 
estate of the late Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman