DRN-2349622
The complaint
Mr C complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has unfairly refused cover for a claim on his 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr C has an ongoing claim with his home insurers relating to subsidence. Hes unhappy with 
the contractor who has carried out the remedial works. So he made a claim on the legal 
expenses section of his policy, to pursue action against his home insurers. 
Great Lakes said the policy didnt cover claims relating to any settlement payable pursuant 
to any insurance policy. It also took legal advice from a firm of solicitors who said the claim 
didnt have reasonable prospects of success on the evidence available. They said expert 
evidence would be needed to show the remedial works werent completed with reasonable 
care and skill and any legal action would be premature as Mr C has the option to take his 
home insurers to the Financial Ombudsman Service in the first instance. For these reasons, 
Great Lakes declined the claim. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this decision. He said he hasnt seen the exclusion relied on, and if 
expert evidence is required then Great Lakes should pay for this. Hes brought his complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Great Lakes was entitled to rely on the 
legal advice it obtains. And without further evidence or a supportive legal assessment, she 
was satisfied Great Lakes had declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for certain claims, including some types of contractual disputes. 
But as with all insurance policies, there are limits on which claims will be covered.
In this case, the policy says it wont cover any settlement payable pursuant to any insurance 
or other policy. Mr Cs claim was in relation to a claim he made on his home insurance, and 
the steps taken to settle that claim. So it doesnt seem to me the claim would be covered by 
this policy. And as Mr C has other options available to him under his home insurance policy 
to resolve this dispute with his insurers, I think its reasonable to expect him to do so before 
considering a claim under the legal expenses policy. 
Despite its concerns that the claim wouldnt be covered for these reasons, Great Lakes 
nevertheless referred it to solicitors for legal advice. 
It is a requirement of Mr Cs policy that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding. For civil cases that means the policyholder will recover losses or damages or 
obtain any other legal remedy Great Lakes has agreed to, as assessed by its preferred law 
firm.
These policy terms arent unusual and I dont think they are unfair. Court action can be 
expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised they are 
unlikely to succeed or that they will recover less than the legal costs incurred. We wouldnt 
expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, its not for me to evaluate the merits 
of the underlying claim. My role is to look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as 
they have obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, I wouldnt generally question their 
reliance on that advice, unless it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. Great 
Lakes obtained legal advice. And the panel firms advice is that Mr Cs claim doesnt have 
reasonable prospects of being successful. 
When a customer makes a claim on an insurance policy, its for them to prove in the first 
instance that they have a valid claim that meets the policy terms and conditions. Only then 
will the claim be accepted. The policy isnt designed to cover the costs of investigating 
whether a claim is valid. 
In this case, Mr C needs to evidence that the remedial works havent been completed to a 
reasonable standard in order to satisfy the policys terms and conditions and he hadnt done 
that. So Great Lakes is entitled to decline it. There is no obligation on Great Lakes to try to 
prove Mr C has a valid claim for him. So I dont think its fair for Great Lakes to fund the 
costs of expert evidence.
Mr C says if he has to pay for expert evidence before approaching a solicitor, the insurance 
is pointless  if he instructs solicitors they would obtain this evidence and its reasonable to 
expect the policy to cover what a normal solicitor would do. Its correct that once solicitors 
are appointed, the policy would cover their costs in obtaining any further evidence, 
negotiating his claim and preparing for court if necessary. But as Ive said, in the first 
instance he has to show he has a valid claim. Without any expert evidence at all, the 
solicitors advised that he could not show his claim has prospects of success. And until he 
shows that it does have prospects, he hasnt shown he has a valid claim.
The panel solicitors have explained to Mr C that any legal action would be premature at this 
stage and that he would need to show the court hes mitigated his losses. As he can bring a 
complaint about his home insurers to our service, the courts would encourage him to do so 
before starting lengthy and expensive litigation.  
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Great Lakes shouldnt rely on the advice it has 
obtained from its preferred law firm. But in any event, theres no cover for claims about 
settling an insurance claim.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied UKIs decision to decline the claim was fair and in line 
with the policy terms. 
Mr C was also unhappy about some delays in dealing with his claim. Insurers should settle 
claims promptly and fairly. So if there was some delay, Id expect Great Lakes to address 
that. It has done so, and offered some compensation to him. Taking into account the amount 
of time involved, and the level of distress that would have been caused, I think the offer it 
made was fair.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman