DRN-2905910
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD trading as Nova Direct 
(PEX) administered his home emergency policy.
 
What happened
Mr T bought an annual home emergency policy with PEX through a third-party cashback 
website. He chose to pay the premiums in monthly instalments. To facilitate this, I 
understand he signed a credit agreement with a third-party finance company.
When Mr Ts cashback claim was declined by the cashback website, he emailed PEX about 
it. PEX said Mr T didnt qualify for the cashback offer because he opted to pay his annual 
premiums on a monthly basis.
Mr T says this made him concerned that he didnt have the annual policy he thought he did, 
so he cancelled the direct debit. 
It appears Mr T then received communication asking him to pay the amount outstanding 
from his credit agreement. Mr T says he was asked to pay different amounts and the tone of 
a call was aggressive. 
To ensure his credit file wouldnt be affected, Mr T paid the third-party finance company the 
amount it said he owed. Mr T complained to PEX about what had happened. It said it wasnt 
responsible for the cashback website or the finance company and thought it had acted fairly. 
Mr T remained unhappy with a number of points, in summary:
He didnt qualify for the cashback offer.
He feels PEXs initial communication was unclear and misled him into thinking he 
had a monthly policy instead of an annual policy. 
The way he was asked to pay the amount outstanding from his credit agreement. In 
particular, the tone of a call and the differing amounts.
He didnt think PEX had provided a final response letter with referral rights to this 
service, and this prompted him to send further emails which went unanswered.
Our investigator initially partially upheld the complaint on the final point. She recommended 
PEX pay Mr T £100 compensation. PEX then showed it had sent a final response letter. This 
satisfied our investigator that PEX had acted fairly. So she didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators revised opinion and requested that a final decision on 
the matter be issued by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has raised a number of points, so Ill consider each separately.
Cashback offer
PEX says its not responsible for how the cashback offer was communicated on the website 
or paying the cashback if Mr T qualified for it. Ive looked at the website and Im satisfied it 
supports what PEX has said.
Despite this, PEX has explained why it doesnt think Mr T qualified for cashback  its not 
available on policies paid for monthly. If Mr T thinks he qualifies for the cashback  or the 
eligibility criteria wasnt communicated clearly to him when he took out the policy  hes 
entitled to take this up with the website.
Communication between PEX and Mr T
Mr T thought PEX hadnt been clear with him about the type of policy he had  and that had 
led him to cancel the direct debit.
Ive looked at the e-mail exchange and Im satisfied PEX was clear. It said cashback wasnt 
available for policies that were paid on a monthly basis. I dont think that indicated Mr T had 
a month long policy  rather than the year long one he thought he had  only that he had 
chosen to pay monthly.
So Im not persuaded PEX acted unfairly or caused Mr T to cancel the direct debit.
Communication about outstanding amount on credit agreement
When Mr T cancelled his direct debit, he stopped making payments under his credit 
agreement. He held this agreement with a third-party finance company  not PEX  and I 
understand it was this company who communicated with Mr T about the amount he owed.
Because of that, I cant consider this point against PEX. Mr T is entitled to get in touch with 
the finance company if he thinks it acted unfairly.
Mr T made two calls to PEX after hed been asked to make payments, which its responsible 
for. One of these was available to listen to. Mr T asked PEX to note that he didnt think he 
should be chased for payment whilst his complaint was outstanding. PEX agreed to do so. 
The amount he owed wasnt discussed during the call and Im satisfied the tone of the PEX 
call handler was reasonable.
Final response and unanswered e-mails
Mr T was unhappy that the response he initially received to his complaint didnt amount to a 
final response letter  thats one which included referral rights to this service  and didnt 
answer all of his points. He sent a number of e-mails to PEX to chase this up and says he 
didnt receive a response to any.
PEX has shown us that it did send a final response letter after one of Mr Ts chaser e-mails. 
Mr T doesnt recall receiving it. The e-mail address is correct, so Im satisfied its likely to 
have been sent.
Mr T sent further e-mails which went unanswered. Whilst it would have been courteous to 
respond to him, PEX had given its final response letter, which meant it had fulfilled its requirement to let Mr T know he could refer his complaint to this service if he was unhappy 
with its answer. And as Mr T didnt raise any new points in his e-mails, I dont think there was 
anything further which PEX was obliged to respond to.
I agree with Mr T that PEX didnt answer all of his complaint points. The way PEX handled 
his complaint isnt, in itself, something I have the power to consider. But because it had 
provided referral rights to this service, Mr T was able to have all of his complaint points 
considered. 
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman