DRN-3547000
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in May 2015. The purchase was funded by a five-year 
fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and 
omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. Mr L says the installer misled him 
into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He did not think that the 
benefits of the panels had been mis-represented to Mr L, and he saw no other reason to 
uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this 
complaint. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and 
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach 
the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £539.14. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is 
£7,575. As I have said, this was to be payable over five years. This document was signed by 
Mr L immediately below those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough 
to bring this information to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr L could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one fifth of the amount borrowed would clearly come to 
£1,515 each year. That is about three times the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, 
I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr L about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was made very clear that the panels would not be self-funding during 
the term of the loan.
I have gone on to consider the CMCs point that the panels have not yielded the financial 
returns the installer had estimated at the point of sale.
The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to produce 1,750 kWh a year. 
I have looked at Mr Ls FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 1,595 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale 
(91%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr L has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and the increases 
have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think this explains why Mr L 
hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr L could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr L entered into the contract.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman