DRN-2217841
The complaint
Mr Is complaining about HSBC UK Bank Plc adding a default marker to his credit file.
What happened
Mr I had a current account with HSBC for many years. In December 2018, Mr I went over his 
overdraft limit. This led to a number of direct debit payments that were due to be made from 
his account being reversed. As Mr I didnt make any payments into the account, a late 
payment marker was added to his credit file. Then, in June 2019, a default marker was 
added, and the account was closed and passed to the collections team.
Mr Is upset that HSBC have applied a default without taking into account his circumstances. 
Hes told us that he had difficulties over the course of several years due to his wife and other 
close family members having significant health problems. And he said he suffered himself 
from poor mental health for many years. He said he was just starting to get back on track 
and the default has made everything much more difficult.
HSBC have told us that they didnt know about Mr Is circumstances. They said Mr I didnt 
tell them until after the account had been closed. They said theyd sent Mr I a number of 
letters between December 2018 and May 2019. Some of these letters told Mr I about the 
reversed direct debit payments. The later ones explained that Mr Is account would default if 
HSBC didnt hear from him. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Is complaint and didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
He said he couldnt see Mr I told HSBC about his circumstances until after the account 
defaulted. And he thought HSBC had done everything they could to tell Mr I that his account 
would default if they didnt hear from him. 
Mr I wasnt happy with this outcome. He said he had told HSBC in 2014 about his personal 
issues. And he reiterated that he hadnt been warned about the default and complained that 
when he tried to talk to HSBC after the default they wouldnt help. Mr I asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise this will be disappointing for Mr I, Im not upholding his complaint.
Mr I thinks HSBC should remove the default on his account because he was experiencing ill 
health and difficult circumstances at the time it was applied. Ive thought about what HSBC 
knew about Mr Is circumstances, and about whether they treated him fairly.
Mr Is told us that he communicated with HSBC about his circumstances by email and phone 
in 2014, 2015, and 2016. Although hes explained that the financial impact continued into the 
following three years, hes not told us that he continued to update HSBC. HSBC said theyve 
checked back to July 2018 and cant find any records of this sort of communication from Mr I 
between then and July 2019 (which was after the default was applied). 
When Mr I went over his overdraft limit in December 2018, HSBC blocked his account and 
sent him letters. I appreciate Mr I said he didnt receive these letters  but he was aware his 
account was blocked. So, I think he should have known there was a problem. It was six 
months before HSBC defaulted the account  I think its fair to expect that Mr I might have 
contacted HSBC during that period even if he didnt receive their letters. 
Ive looked at the information HSBC have provided about the letters they said they sent Mr I. 
Im satisfied they sent both the default notice and the final demand to Mr Is address by post, 
so I cant say they should have done anything more to tell Mr I that his account would 
default. 
Ive thought about whether or not HSBC should have removed the default when he 
contacted them in July 2019. I appreciate Mr I explained the difficult circumstances hed 
been experiencing  and that he was looking to repay the amount he owed to HSBC. But 
HSBC have a duty to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. If theyd 
removed the default from Mr Is credit file they wouldnt have been reporting accurate 
information. 
To conclude, I think HSBC gave Mr I plenty of notice that there were problems with his 
account, and that they would default the account if they didnt hear from him. Mr I didnt 
contact HSBC to make them aware that he was experiencing difficult circumstances at the 
time. If he had done, they may have been able to make alternative arrangements to avoid 
the default. But it wouldnt be fair to expect HSBC to have made alternative arrangements 
based on information last received in 2016, without any contact from Mr I between 
December 2018 and June 2019. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Is complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman