DRN-3984131
The complaint
Mr C complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim made by a 
third-party on his motor insurance policy. Mr C also complains that his premiums have 
increased as a result. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in a road traffic accident in April 2022. He says he indicated in order to 
move into the right-hand lane. When he went to make the manoeuvre his drivers side wing 
mirror was hit by a car. Mr C says he could see that his mirror had been pushed backwards. 
Mr C says he took photographs of his car which had no damage on it. He then checked the 
third-party vehicle and took photographs of that too. 
Mr C says there was no damage to his vehicle or to the third-party vehicle. But due to the 
circumstances of the incident he reported the matter to the police and obtained a crime 
reference number. 
Mr C says he received a letter from AXA explaining the third-party had made a claim against 
him and was claiming damage to their vehicle. 
Mr C provided AXA with details of the incident and disputed that any damage occurred to 
either car.
 
Mr C says as a result of the claim his insurance premium has increased substantially. Mr C 
complained to AXA but didnt receive a satisfactory response. 
Mr C wants his premium to be reduced and the claim to be removed from his record. So he 
brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said 
after considering the available evidence she wasnt upholding the complaint. The 
investigator said Mr C admitted he was changing lanes at the time of the incident. Since Mr 
C was performing the manoeuvre at the time of the collision the onus was on him as the 
party changing lane. There was no evidence to support the allegation that the third party was 
at fault. The investigator said she felt AXA had acted fairly when dealing with the claim 
based on the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view. He said he didnt think AXA acted fairly in the 
handling of the claim. Mr C said he doesnt understand why the third-party is being believed 
over him when there is no other evidence available. Mr C also feels that AXA disputing 
quantum in the claim proves there are issues with the claim. 
Since Mr C doesnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr C. 
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr C. Ive no 
doubt he has done all he can to try and prove his claim and acted in good faith when 
reporting the incident to the police. I can understand why he thought the lack of damage to 
either vehicle together with his testimony would be enough to show the third-party was at 
fault. And when liability was accepted by AXA I think this would have both shocked and 
upset him. 
But its not for me to decide who was responsible for the accident. Its important to explain 
my role here is to look at whether AXA acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and within the 
terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the claim. I am not able to look at the 
actions of the third-party. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point it is because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Accepting liability 
In the terms and conditions of the insurance policy AXA is able to, take over and conduct 
the defence and settlement of any claim in your name. and this is what it has done here. 
I have seen from the notes that the claim was passed back to the liability team for a second 
review following Mr Cs objection with the initial assessment. A senior claim handler within 
the liability team reviewed the claim again. Unfortunately they confirmed liability would need 
to be accepted in the absence of any other evidence to support Mr Cs testimony. 
Ive considered the information provided to me by Mr C and AXA. I must say that I empathise 
with the position Mr C now finds himself in. But I dont think this is due to AXA and its 
handling of the claim. 
AXA took the view that in the absence of detailed independent evidence to prove the third-
party vehicle wasnt travelling straight down the right-hand lane, and the fact that Mr C was 
attempting to change lanes at the time, it wouldnt be able to pursue the claim any further. I 
dont think AXA acted unreasonably here since it relied on the evidence before it to come to 
that conclusion. 
Effect on future insurance cost and no claims discount
It is important to explain we are not the industry regulator. That means its not my role to tell 
an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. And our service generally takes the view 
that provided it treated people fairly an insurer is entitled to charge what it feels it needs to in 
order to cover a risk. 
Mr C isnt happy his insurance premium has increased following the accident. But since AXA 
hasnt been able to recover its costs from the third-party the incident is recorded as a fault 
claim. And this has meant his insurance premium has increased. The increase is in line with 
AXAs usual practice and is standard practice across the industry. So I dont think AXA has 
done anything wrong in increasing the premium. 
Mr C has said because AXA are arguing about the quantum of the claim it proves what he is 
saying about the circumstances of the accident. I dont think AXA is saying it doesnt believe 
Mr Cs version of events. But in the absence of any independent evidence proving what happened and given Mr C has admitted to attempting to change lanes at the time, AXA have 
taken the view it wouldnt be able to defend a claim from the third party. I dont think AXA 
acted unreasonably here since it relied on the evidence before it in order to come to that 
conclusion.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr C but overall I think AXA has acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint about AXA Insurance UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman