DRN-3377974
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) hasnt fully 
reimbursed them after they fell victim to a scam
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 to explain why I thought Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint should be partially upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted 
to give me. This is an extract from that provisional decision:
In May 2019, Mrs H received a call from someone claiming to be from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The caller told her they had information which showed someone 
in an investment management company that her and Mr H held significant investments with 
was carrying out fraudulent activity. As a result, their investments were at risk and in order to
protect them, Mr and Mrs H would need to liquidise the investments and move the funds into
various external accounts to keep their money safe.
After this call, and up to August 2019, Mr and Mrs H cashed in all of their investments and
proceeded to make a series of payments from four accounts all with different banks
(including First Direct) to various external accounts  including accounts held with some
international banks. It is only the transactions made from Mr and Mrs Hs First Direct account
that now form the subject of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H made 13 international payments totalling over £620,000 and a further 22
domestic payments totalling over £250,000 from their First Direct account to a series of new
payees between 14 June 2019 and 22 August 2019. Their total loss amounts to just over
£875,000.
Mr and Mrs H discovered that theyd been scammed on 2 September 2019 and reported the
matter to First Direct. First Direct reviewed the claim and it was established that £190,000 
worth of the domestic payments had been refunded to Mr and Mrs H by the recipient bank. A 
further small amount (under £100) was also recovered from the receiving accounts too. In 
terms of its own liability,
First Direct decided to refund £15,000 - which equated to 50% of one of the final domestic
payments made by Mrs H. It explained it wouldnt be refunding any further amounts for 
reasons Ill set out later on. First Direct repeated this stance in its final response after Mr and 
Mrs H raised a complaint about the handling of their scam claim.
Unhappy with First Directs final response, Mr and Mrs H brought a complaint to our service
 and one of our investigators considered it.
What Mr and Mrs H told our service:
In May 2019, Mrs H received a call from someone claiming to be from the FCA  the
number the call was received from appeared to be a genuine FCA number. She was
told they were investigating a company that her and Mr H held investments with. She
was told someone within the company was stealing their clients money and therefore
their money was at risk. In order to keep the money within the investments safe, Mrs
H would have to cash in her investments and transfer the money to various accounts
both in the UK and abroad. By doing this, their money would be safe as these
accounts would be under the control of the FCA and the fraudster at the investment
company wouldnt have access to them.
Mrs H cant remember if the caller went through any verification procedures. But the
phone number she received the call from did match the number for the genuine FCA.
She knew this as she had initially challenged the caller and was told to look up the
FCA number online and compare it to the number on the call. At the time, Mrs H
didnt know it was possible for phone numbers to be impersonated or spoofed  so
after checking the number, she assumed the call was genuine.
After the call ended, Mrs H received some emails supposedly from who she thought
was the FCA as well. She said the emails had FCA in the email address which
helped to assure her they were genuine emails. Our service has seen one of these
emails. The correspondence is to and from an individual who Ill refer to as M. The
email address does refer to the FCA  after Ms name  but it isnt referred to in the
email address domain name as you would expect from a legitimate email address.
Some other noticeable points of interest include the fact Ms name is spelt differently
in the email address compared to how they sign off the email. The spelling of some of
the words in the body of the email also appear to be incorrect.
Following the fraudsters advice, Mrs H proceeded to cash in her investments. These
initially credited an account they held with another bank. Mrs H then made a series of
transactions out of that account as well as three other accounts all with different
banks. She did this on the basis she was told the money needed to be moved to
various safe accounts in order to protect it. She was also told to use all her available
accounts to get the money to safety as soon as possible - avoiding being restricted
by the daily transfer limit that would apply if she used just one.
One of these other accounts was a brand-new account with a different bank which
Mrs H was encouraged to open. Mrs H was told by the fraudsters that as this was a
new account, which had no connection with any of her previous investments, the
fraudster at the investment company wouldnt be aware of it and so money in this
account would be safe.
Mrs H acknowledges that the recipient accounts werent in her or Mr Hs names.
Whilst the payments were ongoing, Mrs H was continually reassured that these
accounts were secure and once the FCA investigation was over, she would get all
the money back.
Mrs H accepts First Direct and some of her other banks asked her what some of the
payments were for. However, she was instructed by the caller not to disclose 
anything about the investigation. This was because they couldnt be sure if anyone 
else would pass on information to the investment company which would ultimately
compromise the investigation into it.
Mrs H was instructed to provide cover-stories if any of the banks questioned what
the payments were for - examples of which were to explain that certain international
payments were going towards either renovation work on a property they owned
abroad or to an investment company in Asia. Mrs H was even given different
documents  such as invoices and contracts by the fraudsters to help maintain the
cover stories.
The scam happened over a period of three to four months. During this time, Mrs H
was in regular contact with two people who claimed they worked for the FCA.
Sometimes she would be called several times a day to be given updates on how the
investigation was going. The fraudsters provided different scenarios to Mrs H, one of
which was that a suspect in a foreign country was under surveillance. That suspectwas subsequently arrested and Mrs H was told theyd found a laptop which meant
there was another suspect too. Eventually, she was told theyd arrested the correct
person and so she could make an appointment with her investment company to
decide how to move forward. However, when she attended the appointment in
September 2019  she realised she has been scammed.
Mr H was 82 and Mrs H was in her late 70s at the time the scam took place. They
have described themselves as not very knowledgeable when it comes to technology.
As a result, they were unaware that it was possible for scammers to make phone
calls appear to be from a number that wasnt the one being used to make the call -
otherwise known as spoofing.
What First Direct has told our service:
First Direct didnt think it was appropriate for our service to consider the complaint
due to the amount lost by Mr and Mrs H  it significantly exceeds our award limit. It
thought it more appropriate for the case to be dealt with in court. It pointed out that if
our service did go on to consider the complaint, and should it be upheld, it wouldnt
look to pay anything over our award limit.
First Direct doesnt believe it should refund anything over and above the £15,000
already offered  for two reasons. Firstly, it believes Mrs H was provided with
effective warnings prior to making the scam payments based on what shed told First
Direct the payments were for. First Direct believe Mrs H chose to disregard these
warnings and make the payments regardless. For example, it says Mrs H was given
warnings about email intercept scams when she said the reason for a new payee
being set up on the account was to pay a builder for building works. First Direct now
acknowledge this wasnt the true purpose of this payment (and others), but it feels it
shouldnt be held liable for not providing a relevant warning if this was a result of Mrs
H being dishonest with them about the real reason for the payment.
The second, is that First Direct doesnt believe Mrs H had a reasonable basis for
believing she was dealing with the genuine FCA. It also doesnt believe it was
reasonable for her to believe that she needed to make the payments out of her
account in order to keep their money safe. Its commented that Mrs H is a well-
educated person and she failed to carry out any reasonable checks to make sure this
wasnt a scam  especially considering the considerable amount of money she was
transferring. It says Mrs H appears to have relied on the fact that the phone number
used to call her matched the genuine FCA number. However, this was only because
the scammer prompted her to check. Aside from this, Mrs H didnt do any further
checks herself and First Direct has described the story she was told, that someone at
an investment company could have access to her banks accounts because thats
where her dividends were paid, as fanciful.
It highlighted a number of checks Mrs H couldve done. I wont list all of them here,
but they include having called the genuine FCA about the investigation and querying
several things which Mrs H was told which seemed suspicious.
It acknowledges that the disputed transactions were unusual for Mr and Mrs Hs
account. But it feels that even if further questions were asked, the scam still wouldnt
have been uncovered or prevented. This is because it believes Mrs H wouldnt have
told the truth about the real reason for the payments and even if First Direct had
blocked the payments earlier, she wouldve continued to make them from another
account.
Our investigator reviewed what Mrs H and First Direct had said, alongside any other
evidence made available to her. Having done so, she was satisfied that our service should
consider the complaint  despite First Directs comments. This was because she was
satisfied our service was able to reach a fair and reasonable outcome and what we couldultimately award didnt undermine that.
Our investigator then considered what was fair and reasonable when it came to both the
international and domestic payments. This included First Directs obligations under the
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
First Direct is a signatory of the Code which requires it to reimburse customers who have
been the victim of APP scams, like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances or
exceptions which are set out in the code itself. First Direct says one or more of these
exceptions applies to most of the scam payments here which is why its only refunded 50%
of a single domestic payment.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that any of the exceptions were applicable. She didnt
agree that First Direct had provided Mrs H with effective warnings each time she made a
payment. She accepted Mrs H may not have been truthful about the nature of the payments
but she highlighted that quite a few of the payments made by Mrs H had flagged on First
Directs security systems. Because of this, she felt it was for First Direct to have asked
reasonable questions about the payments to get a better understanding of what might be
happening, and then tailor their warning accordingly. Our investigator was satisfied this didnt
happen  and this meant First Direct didnt provide Mrs H with any effective warnings
throughout the course of the scam.
Our investigator was also persuaded Mrs H did have a reasonable basis for believing she
was dealing with the genuine FCA and that she needed to move her money to keep it safe.
The spoofed phone number made it look like it was the genuine FCA calling and pressuring
language was used to make it seem their money was in immediate danger. Our investigator
acknowledged that whilst the recipient accounts werent in Mr and Mrs Hs names  Mrs H
wasnt specifically told that this was going to be the case, so there was no need to question
why the accounts werent in their names, as Mr and Mrs H simply thought the accounts were
under FCA control  regardless of whose name they were ultimately registered under.
Our investigator said that whilst the emails Mr and Mrs H received didnt have some of the
features youd expect of a genuine email, she thought there was still enough to make it seem
that they were real  especially in conjunction with the conversations and other tactics the
scammers were using.
She acknowledged that First Direct did call Mrs H after the very first payment. But because
this payment (and the following ones) were so unusual, she also felt First Direct ought to
have asked more probing questions in addition to just asking what the payment was for, in
order to try and find out what was going on. Our investigator was persuaded that had this
happened as it shouldve, Mrs H wouldve struggled to maintain any cover-story she mayve
had and so it wouldve become apparent that something else was happening and the
payments couldve been stopped.
As a result of all of the above, our investigator felt it would be fair and reasonable for First
Direct to refund Mr and Mrs H any remaining losses. Due to the value of the refund, which
amounted to significantly more than our legal award limit, our investigator explained she was
only recommending £350,000 (plus interest) and that First Direct wouldnt have to pay
anything over this amount.
She also considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to recommend First Direct pay
anything further in relation to any consequential loss which mayve been incurred by Mr and
Mrs H as a result of liquidising their investments. However, she didnt think it was fair for
First Direct to bear these losses  as she was persuaded it was most likely Mrs H wouldve
continued to make payments to the scammers through other means, even if First Direct hadstopped her from making payments from their account, so she wouldve incurred these
losses regardless.
Mr and Mrs H agreed with our investigators outcome  but First Direct disagreed. Ive
summarised the reasons why below:
In terms of any payments covered by the CRM Code, it still believes Mrs H didnt
have a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with the genuine FCA, it
believes Mrs H failed to show any due diligence during the scam and there were
several opportunities to identify something wasnt quite right. Mrs H took no
opportunities to confirm they were speaking with the genuine FCA.
The emails Mr and Mrs H received shouldve raised concerns. Its highlighted that
Mrs H wasnt corresponding with an email coming from an FCA email domain. The
email First Direct saw also contained a series of spelling mistakes and
inconsistencies which wouldnt be associated with an organisation such as the FCA.
It believes by not undertaking any reasonable checks, Mrs H has been negligent and
so she should bear some responsibility for the loss thats been incurred. First Direct
believe it unreasonable for the investigator to reach an outcome that absolves Mrs H
from any responsibility despite her lack of due diligence and the fact that she lied to
the bank to cover up the real reason for the payments on numerous occasions. It
believes Mrs Hs actions were deliberately misleading which impeded its ability to try
and assist her in preventing the scam.
First Direct has a duty to process the payment instructions of its customers. And
whilst it acknowledges it has a duty to exercise reasonable care and skill in doing so,
this doesnt extend to having to question a customers instructions or act as an
amateur detective. To support its conclusions, it pointed to the judgment set down in
the case of Philipps vs Barclays.
It acknowledges a third-party bank carried out additional questioning which helped to
uncover that something might not be quite right and payments from other accounts
were blocked. But it says this happened much later on in the scam when significant
and numerous payments had been made. It didnt think a more in-depth level of
questioning was required from the outset when it initially spoke to Mrs H. It pointed
out that it did start to ask further questions and did stop payments when the overall
amount being transferred started to become inconsistent with the reasons Mrs H had
previously provided. Its also highlighted that resorting to blocking payments when a
customer is adamant they want to make them should always be a last resort within
the banking industry. So overall, it thinks it acted reasonably.
First Direct also said our investigators reasoning for not recommending it cover any
consequential losses is contradictory to her findings about what she thought about
the payments themselves. It pointed out that our investigator had reached the finding
that even if First Direct had stopped these payments, Mrs H wouldve carried on
regardless, likely from another account. And it didnt think it was fair and reasonable
that it should now be held liable for a loss that our investigator felt Mrs H wouldve
incurred regardless of First Directs actions.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am currently minded to reach a different outcome to that of our
investigator  in that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr and Mrs Hscomplaint in full. Ill explain why below.
Theres no dispute that Mrs H authorised the payments that are now the subject of this
complaint, even though she did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. And so,
broadly speaking, under the terms and conditions of her account and the Payment Service
Regulations 2017, she would be held liable for them in the first instance. But that isnt the
end of the story here. Below, Ive included a table which sets out the payments made from
the First Direct account, as well as a few other points of interest:
Date Transaction Amount Point of interest
21 May 2019 to 14 
June 2019A series of high value payments are 
made from a third-party bank to the 
scammers
14 June 2019 £100,000 transferred into First 
Direct account
14 June 2019 to 1 
July 2019A series of high value payments are 
made from a second third-party 
bank to the scammers
1 July 2019 Initial payment to A 
(domestic)£10,000 Payment made over the phone  
Mrs H explains payment is going to 
a builder and she would be making 
further payments to this person. 
Reference used was builder.
2 July 2019 Mrs H opens a brand-new account 
with a third-party bank on 
instructions of the scammer.
3 July 2019 Initial payment to B 
(international£40,000 Payment flagged on First Directs 
security systems. A call is made to 
Mrs H  but only to ask if she is 
making the payment. There are no 
questions about the purpose of the 
payment itself.
4 July 2019 to 11 
July 20197 x Payments to A 
(domestic)£69,999 All with same reference as first 
payment builder
11 July 2019 £100,000 transferred into First 
Direct account
12 July 2019 Payment to B 
(international)£50,000
13 July 2019 to 15 
July 20195 x Payments to A 
(domestic)£50,000
15 July 2019 Mrs H attempts a £35,000 payment 
from the newly opened bank 
account to the same international 
recipient (B). However, its blocked 
as the third-party bank have 
concerns. It requests evidence to 
show payment is genuine. Mrs H 
says shes been dealing with B for 
over a year and the payments relate 
to an investment. Shes not had any 
returns and she doesnt have much 
paperwork.
5 August 2019 to 8 
August 2019 4 x Payments to B 
(international)£199,0008 August 2019 to 9 
August 20195 x Payments to A 
(domestic)£50,000
9 August 2019 2 x Payments to B 
(international)£85,000
10 August 2019 3 x Payments to A 
(domestic)£30,000
12 August 2019 to 
14 August 20195 x Payments to B 
(international)£242,999
14 August 2019 Mrs H is told by the third-party bank 
it believes she is being scammed.
22 August 2019 Initial Payment to C 
(domestic)£30,000 First Direct have refunded 50% of 
this payment as they dont believe 
they provided Mrs H with an 
effective warning under the CRM 
code.
22 August 2019 Initial payment to D 
(domestic)£25,000 Further call between First Direct 
and Mrs H. First Direct provide 
warning about email intercept 
scams only
22 August 2019 Third-party bank refuses to allow 
£35,000 payment (see entry dated 
15 July 2019) due to concerns 
payment isnt genuine.
23 August 2019 Two attempted payments to C and 
D for £25,000 each. These are 
stopped by First Direct.
23 August 2019 Call between Mrs H and another 
third-party bank. Third-party bank 
informs Mrs H it has concerns about 
the usage of the account and think 
something else is going on. Third-
party bank refuse to allow payments 
through.
23 August 2019 Conversation between First Direct 
and Mrs H after she tries to make 
two further payments to C and D. 
Mrs H is challenged on the nature f 
these payments. Mrs H maintains 
cover-story. Unsatisfied, First Direct 
dont allow the payments through.
24 August 2019 Mrs H makes a further £20,000 
payment to scammers via a third-
party account.
2 September 2019 Mrs H reports scam to First Direct 
and the other affected banks.
2 September 2019 First Direct notify beneficiary banks.
Payments covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code  the domestic
payments
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam, it may be appropriate for the bank to
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised under the
CRM Code, which First Direct is a signatory to.Under the CRM Code, the circumstances where a bank may choose not to reimburse are
limited and it is for the bank to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of
care, as set out in the Code. A bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can
establish that:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by
failing to take appropriate action in response to such as effective warning.
The customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing
that:
- the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Mrs H made a total of 22 domestic payments during the scam. It is only these payments that
Ive considered under the CRM Code. This is because the Code doesnt apply to
international payments. I will address the international payments separately later on.
Did First Direct provide an effective warning?
First Direct has said effective warnings were provided to Mrs H prior to all but one of the
domestic payments. Its said its warnings were based on what Mrs H said the purpose of the
payments was for - building work. First Direct has said that as Mrs H didnt tell the truth when
asked what the payments were for it couldnt assist her in the way it couldve had she been
truthful.
First Direct called Mrs H just after shed initiated the first payment. The remaining domestic
payments were then made online. Its my understanding that First Direct considered what
was discussed during the initial call to amount to an effective warning under the CRM code -
for this payment and all of the domestic payments that came after until a further call was
needed later on. But Im not persuaded Mrs H was provided with effective warnings either in 
the initial call itself or prior to any of the subsequent payments made from the account. 
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, an effective warning must (as a minimum) be: 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. With this in mind, Im not satisfied what 
the call-handler was saying to Mrs H met the definition of an effective warning under the 
CRM code. It wasnt specific to the type of scam Mrs H was falling victim to and it didnt offer 
any further detail as to what this type of scam involved or highlight any other common 
features of this type of scam. The call-handler also didnt make Mrs H aware of the 
consequences of continuing with a payment like this one.
Ive also not seen any evidence of any subsequent warnings being provided to Mrs H when
making the remaining payments to the same payee. Under the requirements of the Code, an
effective warning needs to be provided for each individual payment for First Direct to meet its
obligations. It isnt good enough for First Direct to have relied on the initial call.
Overall, Im not persuaded the conversations had by First Direct met the standards set out in
the Code and so it cant be said these were effective warnings. So, Im satisfied First Direct
cant fairly apply this as an exception to reimbursement.
Did Mrs H make the payments with a reasonable basis for belief?
First Direct has also said it doesnt think Mrs H had a reasonable basis for believing she was
dealing with the genuine FCA or that she needed to move her and Mr Hs money in order to
keep it safe. And I partially agree. Ill explain why.Mrs H received a call from a spoofed phone number  which matched the genuine FCA
number. Theres nothing to indicate Mrs H ought to have known this was possible. The use
of this tactic can be particularly convincing and I can understand why Mrs H would have
been satisfied that she was talking to the genuine FCA. The caller also appeared to know
about the company Mr and Mrs H held investments with and it was heavily emphasised that
Mr and Mrs Hs money was at risk and something needed to be done in order to keep it safe
 as a matter of urgency  which ultimately stopped Mrs H having time to think and process
what she was being told. The scammers provided her with a police reference number and
explained to her that she couldnt discuss the investigation into the investment company with
anyone as it may jeopardise the whole thing.
So, initially, I do think it was reasonable for Mrs H to believe she was dealing with the
genuine FCA  at least at the beginning of the scam.
However, Ive then gone on to consider whether it was reasonable for Mrs H to continue
believing she was speaking with the FCA and making payments to protect her money as the
scam evolved. And I dont think it was.
The payees Mrs H was sending money to had no association with Mr and Mrs H, and on the
face of it, they didnt appear to have anything to do with the FCA either. And Im satisfied
there ought to have been a point where Id have expected Mrs H to question why the
payments were going to so many different accounts (including some business accounts).
I also think the request that Mrs H open a brand-new account with a different bank shouldve
caused concern. Shed had been told previously that the numerous accounts shed been
transferring to were secure - and so its unclear why she would now have to open a new
account to ensure the safety of her funds  and therefore why she also transferred money
out of this account. Ive also considered the length of time the payments went on for against
the reason given for needing to make the payments in the first place - Mr and Mrs Hs
investments were in immediate danger. And so, Im not persuaded that Mrs Hs had a
genuine basis for believing she was dealing with the genuine FCA by the time she opened
the brand-new account on 2 July 2019.
Overall, Im satisfied First Direct failed to provide effective warnings to Mrs H throughout the
course of the scam. So, under the requirements of the Code, Id usually be minded to say
that it ought to have recognised its share of the responsibility for the loss when Mr and Mrs H
initially complained. Im satisfied that at this point, First Direct shouldve refunded 100% of
the first payment made from this account and 50% of any loss thereafter - given that I dont
think Mrs H had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were legitimate from this
point onwards. However, I note that one of the receiving banks involved has also accepted
some liability for Mr and Mrs Hs overall loss and I have taken this into consideration when
deciding what I now feel would amount to fair compensation in order to resolve this
complaint.
Usually, in a scenario such as this, where there are three parties to a complaint (the sending
bank (First Direct), the receiving bank and the customers (Mr and Mrs H)) we would look at
each parties obligations under The Code and responsibility/liability for any loss would be
apportioned as to whether each party had met their obligations or not.
So, where the receiving bank tells us they failed in their obligations under The Code and
where I am persuaded that First Direct also failed in its obligations under The Code, a fair
and reasonable offer would usually amount to the consumer being refunded two thirds of
the overall loss. However, in this particular case, the receiving bank has already refunded
£190,000 and First Direct have already refunded £15,000 and so I am satisfied that Mr and
Mrs H have already been refunded more than two thirds of the payments covered by The
Code. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs H have already been refunded more than I would thinkfair and reasonable in terms of the domestic payments and so I dont think it would be fair
and reasonable for First Direct to have to pay anything further in regard to the domestic
payments now.
Payments not covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code  the
international payments
Next, I have thought about whether there was anything else First Direct couldve done to
uncover the scam and prevent the international payments from leaving Mr and Mrs Hs
account. As the CRM Code only applies to domestic payments  this means it cant be
considered in relation to the international payments Mrs H made.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. As
Mrs H also authorised the international payments, the starting position is that she is held
liable for them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider First
Direct should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I want to stress that I am aware of the case of Philipps v Barclays that First Direct has
directed me to. And notwithstanding what the judge said, we have a duty to resolve
complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators' rules and guidance, relevant
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And
Im satisfied given what Ive set out above, that there are certain scenarios where First Direct
should ask questions about a payment before it processes it on its customers behalf  it
should be on the look-out for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed the pattern of transactions made from the First Direct account, I agree with
our investigator that the disputed activity is unusual and out of character when compared to
the previous undisputed activity on the account. In particular, Im satisfied that the first
international payment should have stood out as somewhat odd  it is requested after a large
transfer into the account, it is going to an international account, to a new payee and it is
significantly higher than any recent previous transactions  it is 4 times higher than the
previous scam payment. And given that First Direct did speak to Mrs H about this payment
as it flagged on its security systems, Im satisfied First Direct thought this too.
Ive listened to a recording of the call that took place between Mrs H and First Direct in
regard to this payment, and it appears that the purpose of the call was to establish whetherMrs H had made the payment or not. Once Mrs H confirmed she had requested the payment
herself, the call came to an end.
Given that Im satisfied that this first international payment was out of character when
compared to previous activity on the account and that Mr and Mrs H were of an age known
to be targeted by fraudsters, I think First Direct needed to do more than just ask whether Mrs
H had made the payment or not to satisfy itself she wasnt at risk of financial harm from
fraud.
But whilst Im satisfied First Direct ought to have done more due to the unusualness of the
international payment  I then need to think about what an appropriate level of intervention
shouldve been and also whether any of Mrs Hs likely answers wouldve put First Direct on
notice that Mrs H was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Had Mrs H been asked for the purpose of the payment, Im satisfied she would have
answered in the same way as when she was asked this question both by First Direct much
later on, and also when challenged by a third-party bank. Im persuaded she wouldve said
the payment was for an investment. Knowing this, Id have then expected First Direct to have
followed this up with a series of questions about the investment to satisfy itself everything
was above board. Our investigator set out some examples of additional questions which
couldve been asked. I wont list them here again but Im satisfied the examples she provided
wouldve been reasonable questions to ask. Ive then thought about what wouldve most
likely happened if Mrs H had been asked these questions. To help me decide this, Ive taken
into account Mrs Hs responses during the call with First Direct on 23 August 2019, as well
as her responses to another third-party bank when she was challenged on a payment she
was making to the same international payee.
When Miss H was asked about the international payments by First Direct on 23 August
2019, she responded to say the payments were to an investment company which is going to
make investments for me. No further detail or clarification is provided about the investment
or company - aside from her confirming shed been dealing with them for a while.
Mrs H also confirmed shed been making payments to the international payee from a third-
party account before starting payments from the First Direct account. When asked why she
was doing this if she was already making payments from another account, Mrs H responded
to say it makes sense to move money from a different place. Mrs H provided no further
clarification. Similarly, when questioned by the third-party bank, Mrs H only confirmed that 
shed found out about the company through a friend. She also confirmed she hadnt seen 
any returns and she was also unsure if her friend had any either. There was no paperwork 
available.
I find all of the answers that Mrs H provided to be somewhat vague. She doesnt sound like
she knows any detail about the investment shes entering into at all  especially given the
amount she is allegedly investing. And Im satisfied she wouldve responded in a similar way
had she been asked further questions when making the first international payment. As a
result, Im persuaded that Mrs H wouldve struggled to answer any reasonable probing
questions put to her by First Direct and Im not persuaded she wouldve been able to provide
any real detail about the investment or the company itself. And given the prolific nature of
investment scams at the time, I think this shouldve rang alarm bells for First Direct.
As I am satisfied that First Direct should have had concerns here, Im satisfied that it
shouldve done more to satisfy itself that what Mrs H was making a legitimate payment. I
have noted what First Direct has said about blocking payments that a customer is requesting
being a last resort, and I dont necessarily think that the payments shouldve been blocked
but it wouldve been reasonable for First Direct to have placed a hold on the payment whilstit requested Mrs H provide it with some documentation showing the investment she was
entering into. Any genuine investment would be accompanied by appropriate documentation
and this would have given First Direct the opportunity to satisfy itself that everything was
above board before moving forward. And we now know that this wouldve likely uncovered
the scam. 
The third-party bank Mrs H had been dealing with requested that Mrs H provide
evidence to show shed been dealing with this investment company for the amount of time
shed claimed, and for some further details about the investment/company itself. Im satisfied
Mrs H wouldve most likely provided the same document she provided to the third-party
bank, had First Direct requested this.
Ive seen a copy of the document in question which appears to have been put together and
given to Mrs H by the fraudsters in order to assist her in maintaining her cover-story. Its
lacking in detail when it comes to what the investment actually is. Theres also no other
information that youd reasonably expect to see in an investment document  such as rate of
returns or the duration of the investment. Overall, Im not satisfied that the document
wouldve persuaded First Direct that Mrs H was entering into a genuine investment.
Ive also considered what mightve happened had Mrs H been asked to evidence her
previous dealings with this company. I note Mrs H had said she had been dealing with this
company for a while or more than a year depending on which bank shed spoken to. But
had a quick check been carried out on the name of the company Mrs H was supposedly
dealing with, it wouldve become apparent that the company in question had only been in
existence since October 2018  much less than the year and more than Mrs H had claimed
she had been dealing with it.
Overall, Im persuaded that a continual set of vague answers, coupled with an inability to
document anything which supported her assertions wouldve meant First Direct ought to
have been concerned that Mrs H was at risk of falling victim to some kind of fraud or scam.
And whilst I appreciate Mrs H herself may not have necessarily confessed to what was
actually going on  this doesnt mean First Direct shouldve carried on regardless.
First Direct has confirmed that the conversations it had with Mrs H on 23 August 2019
resulted in it rejecting the two payments she had attempted to make earlier on the same day
 as well as applying restrictions to her account which prevented any further transfers from
being made. Whilst Ive taken on board First Directs arguments that it wouldnt have been
appropriate to have intervened and taken such decisive action at an earlier stage when the
circumstances leading up to the payments were less suspicious, I dont agree. The first
international payment was unusual enough to warrant further challenge and Im not
persuaded that Mrs H wouldve been able to satisfy First Direct that this was a legitimate
payment had any reasonable probing questions been asked about it. And so Im satisfied
that had a similar conversation taken place after the first international payment and had
further evidence of the investment not been provided  I think it wouldve been reasonable
for First Direct to have taken similar steps  namely to prevent this and any further attempted
payments which appeared out of character for the account.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that First Direct couldve and shouldve prevented the
first, as well as any further international payments made, just as it did after the conversation
with Mrs H on 23 August 2019. 
I agree with First Direct that Mrs H, under the spell of the scammers, may have considered 
alternative ways of moving the money on still. However, this does not detract from the fact 
that by failing to take appropriate action in regard to the first international payment, First Direct has failed in its obligations to protect Mr and Mrs H from potential harm from fraud and 
First Direct must now take responsibility for some of Mr and Mrs H total losses.
However, Im also persuaded that Mrs H should also bear some responsibility for this loss
too. As previously mentioned, I dont think it was reasonable for Mrs H to have continued to
make payments without completing further checks from the beginning of July 2019. And Mrs
H continued to make payments despite various banks already telling her that she was being
scammed in some capacity. Despite this, Mrs H still proceeded to make further payments
from the First Direct account. It therefore appears to me that the most fair and reasonable
outcome is that First Direct and Mrs H should share responsibility for the international
payments that left the First Direct account. First Direct should not have allowed Mrs H to
continue to make payments from the point she should have been reasonably challenged. But
at the same time, Mrs H couldve taken further steps to mitigate her own losses too. I also
think she made at least some of the payments without consideration of the various warnings
various different banks had given her. So I think a 50% refund of all the international
payments that took place from 3 July 2019 is reasonable.
Finally, Ive thought about First Directs actions when Mrs H told them on 2 September 2019
that shed been scammed. However, based on the evidence Ive seen from the UK receiving
banks, all but a negligible amount (under £100) had already been moved on by the time Mrs
H told First Direct about the scam. So regardless of when First Direct then notified the
receiving banks, there was no chance of being able to recover any more than what it was
ultimately able to.
First Direct doesnt have the same obligations when it comes to international payments.
However, I have seen evidence that it attempted to recall the payments and notify the
international bank on 3 September 2019  just under 24 hours after it was put on notice by
Mrs H. In these specific circumstances, I dont believe this is unreasonable. And unlike the
UK based receiving banks, there wouldve been nothing further First Direct could do  as it
was then ultimately up to the international bank as to whether it wanted to respond or not.
Summary
In summary, Im not recommending First Direct do anything further in relation to the
payments covered by the CRM Code.
However, Im currently minded to say First Direct should be liable for refunding 50% of the
loss incurred on all of the international payments. This is because Im satisfied additional
intervention was needed when First Direct spoke to Mrs H on 3 July 2019. And it wouldve
been reasonable for First Direct to block this and any future payments. That being said, Mrs
H also ought to have been reasonably aware that something wasnt right by this point. So Im
satisfied that its reasonable to say Mrs H should bear some responsibility for this loss as
well.
My provisional decision
I am currently minded to partially uphold this complaint. I think that fair 
compensation amounts to a 50% refund of all international transfers that left Mr 
and Mrs Hs First Direct account.
My provisional decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) should 
refund 50% of all international payments made from 3 July 2019 onwards. It should 
also simple interest on that sum at 8% per annum from the date of loss to the date of 
refund.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H agreed with the findings I made in my provisional decision. HSBC UK Bank 
Plc (trading as First Direct) did not respond with any further points. As I havent been 
provided with anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings made 
in my provisional decision, for the same reasons, and I partially uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against HSBC Bank UK Plc.
HSBC Bank UK Plc should now:
refund 50% of all the international payments that left Mr and Mrs Hs account 
from 3 July 2019 onwards
it should also include 8% simple interest per annum on each payment from 
the date of loss to the date of refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman