DRN-3690299
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain HSBC Trust Company (UK) Ltd (HSBC) mis-sold an initial charge 
bond because the investment fund should have been higher risk. The bond was placed in 
trust and Mrs M, Mr M and Mr M (the trustees) also complain HSBC failed to provide 
ongoing advice or reviews in line with their duty as professional trustee. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the policy on 12 September 1996. It was placed in trust and Mr and 
Mrs M were initially appointed trustees, along with Midland Bank Trust Company (now 
HSBC). Mr and Mrs M were the settlors and lives assured. There was a single premium of 
£150,000 and it was invested across 12 policies. The policy was a non-qualifying, whole-of-
life assurance policy. 
The policy was surrendered across tax year 2018/2019 and 2019/2020 for a total of 
£538,644. This resulted in capital gains tax of £32,593. A complaint was made to HSBC, in 
summary the concerns were:
The policy was mis-sold as the trust was tax deferred, the funds should have been 
invested in high-risk investments, and the trust deeds were inadequate. 
The policy was mis-managed due to a lack of ongoing advice. There have been no 
fund switches and no advice on how to wind the fund up. 
HSBC responded to the complaint, but the response wasnt accepted. So, our service was 
asked to look into things. Our investigator issued a view explaining why they didnt think 
HSBC had done anything wrong. 
The representative didnt agree with the investigators outcome. In summary, he said: 
HSBC were the selling agents. 
HSBCs complaints manager confirmed a persons risk appetite stays constant during 
their lifetime and there is evidence of Mr and Mrs Ms high-risk attitude. This included 
10 risk questionnaires filled in between 2013 and 2016. Therefore, the investment 
was incorrectly placed in a moderate risk fund.  
HSBC failed to provide an adequate trust deed. 
HSBC failed to review the trust when it was seven years old resulting in an 
unexpected and wholly preventable tax bill when it was wound up. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A significant amount of time has passed since the initial sale of the policy, so there is limited 
information available. This isnt unusual. But it does mean my decision is based on the 
information I do have and what I think is more likely to have happened on balance. 
Id also note the representative has made detailed submissions to our service in relation to 
this complaint. I want to assure him that I have considered everything. But I may not have 
referred to everything he has said. Where a specific point is not mentioned in my decision, 
this is simply because I dont think I need to refer to it to reach the right outcome here.
Sale
HSBC maintain they arent responsible for the sale of this policy. Ive reviewed the available 
information and whilst it is limited, I am satisfied its likely they are responsible. This is 
because they were appointed as trustees around the time the investment started, the 
providers correspondence records HSBC as servicing agents and HSBC provided advice on 
other investments which started around the same time. Whilst I appreciate this is 
circumstantial, Im satisfied its sufficient for me to conclude on balance they were 
responsible for the sale. 
So, Ill turn to whether the recommendation was suitable.
 
Ive reviewed the application form and I can see it was signed by Mr and Mrs M on 30 
August 1996. I can see it was clearly stated that 100% of the money would be invested in 
the with profits fund. So, I think Mr and Mrs M agreed and understood how the money was 
being invested. 
Ive considered all of the points and evidence raised by the representative including the later 
questionnaires about attitude to risk. And I understand Mr and Mrs M may have been willing 
to take a higher risk and they seem to have had sufficient capital to do so. But it doesnt 
mean they were willing to do so with every product.
 
With profits bonds are usually taken out with a long-term view to be paid on the death of the 
second life assured. Im mindful there were two objectives here  to mitigate IHT and for 
capital growth. The policy was also taken out to benefit family. And Im satisfied a stable 
policy was suitable for those aims, whilst still allowing the opportunity for growth. 
Moreover, this policy was non-qualifying. I dont have the recommendation or specific 
reasons why such a policy was recommended. The policy had benefits such as flexibility in 
respect of withdrawals and partial surrender options. Taking everything into consideration, 
Im content it was a suitable policy to meet the objectives and aims of Mr and Mrs M. 
Trust deed 
HSBC have confirmed they wouldnt have drawn up the trust deed themselves as they do 
not have the expertise for this. Ive seen a copy of the trust deed and I can see it is on 
headed paper from the provider of the bond. So, it seems they used a standard template 
from the provider. I understand the difficulties the representative has set out. But it wasnt 
unreasonable for HSBC to use this so Im not going to ask them to cover the cost of having 
them redrafted. 
Professional trustee
HSBC have accepted they werent aware they were appointed professional trustee and did 
not hold a copy of the trust deed. So, its now necessary for me to consider whether this has 
had a detrimental effect. Ive considered what I think it is likely HSBC should have done in their role as professional trustees and their duties here.  Ive also considered what they set 
out in their terms and conditions in respect of the trust service. 
The trustees have said there was a lack of ongoing advice and HSBC should have sought to 
initiate fund switches or advised to surrender sooner. However, theres no evidence of an 
agreement for ongoing advice and Im not satisfied suitability advice would fall within HSBCs 
remit as trustees. Their duty was to manage the trust in line with its objectives. Advice on 
fund switches or surrender would require a full assessment of Mr and Mrs Ms financial 
position because of the impact it could have. Id also note a separate entity provided advice 
in 2008. However, it was open for the other trustees at the time to request advice and Ive 
seen no evidence such a request was made. 
Moreover, HSBC have confirmed the funds were placed into a with profits fund and have 
explained they wouldnt look to initiate fund switches unless the fund was underperforming. 
Any alteration to the fund couldve resulted in the loss of a bonus and potentially mitigate the 
reason for being in a with profits fund.
Their investment managers research and assess the performance of major funds in the 
marketplace and compare this with their holdings. Although this did not happen, theyve 
confirmed theyve looked back, and these funds were not considered underperforming. In 
the circumstances, I think its unlikely HSBC would have recommended a change here, 
including a fund switch or surrender.  
The trustees have said the trust deed confirmed the trust was meant to be wound up when 
the grandchildren were 25 years old, but this did not happen. I appreciate the trustees 
concerns here but I dont think it was for HSBC to say when the trust should have been 
surrendered in full or part. For example, its not clear they had information about when the 
beneficiaries would turn 25. In these circumstances, I think it would have been up to the 
other trustees at the time to request surrender. 
In the complaint correspondence, HSBC explained they werent tax specialists. But Im not 
persuaded this meant they couldnt consider financial arrangements with a view to mitigating 
IHT particularly in respect of financial products they recommended. Im satisfied HSBC 
meant they wouldnt be able to provide advice on the tax implications of surrendering the 
policy and this is separate.
I can see they provided some more general advice in their letter of 24 October 2018 about 
the tax implications of the surrender. I note HSBCs letter of 18 November 2018 explained 
there would be a large CGT on surrender and that independent tax advice should be sought. 
I note the trustee (and representative) also complains HSBC would not meet with him. 
However, I dont think this was unreasonable because they had already explained they 
couldnt give specific tax advice on the surrender of the bond and had written extensively to 
set out their position. 
Overall, HSBC should have been aware of their role as professional trustee. However, for 
the reasons outlined above Im not satisfied this has caused a loss to the trust. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman