DRN-1598967
 
The complaint
Miss W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible when it offered her a 
credit card in 2016 and when it later increased her credit limit. She asks that it refunds 
interest and fees and removes any negative information from her credit file. Miss W is 
represented in bringing this complaint: Ill refer to her representative as Mr K. 
What happened
Miss W opened a credit card account with Capital One in May 2016. She says she wasnt in 
employment when she applied for the card or since. Despite this, Capital One gave her a 
credit card and increased her credit limit to £2,300. Miss W says she borrowed from family 
and friends to meet repayments. She says shes become reliant on debt, cant meet 
everyday costs and trying to keep up with repayments has contributed to her financial 
difficulties and health problems.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Capital 
One had taken reasonable steps to check that Miss W could afford to repay the borrowing. 
Miss W didnt agree. Her representative said it wasnt acceptable that Capital One didnt 
verify Miss Ws income when she applied for the card or when it increased her credit limit. 
He said it wasnt good practice to offer a £2,000 credit limit to a single mother with an annual 
income of £15,000. Mr K said the repayments were not sustainable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Before offering a credit card account to Miss W, Capital One needed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have 
carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss W could repay the debt in a sustainable 
manner. 
Capital One provided evidence of its checks. It asked Miss W about her income. And it did a 
credit check.
In her application, Miss W said she was employed with an annual income of £15,000. I dont 
think Capital One would have known  or had reason to suspect  if this wasnt correct.
Capital Ones credit check showed Miss W had a default recorded: the defaulted account 
was settled in 2011 (or 2014 according to the results from another credit reference agency). 
Shed also defaulted on an account with Capital One in 2005. I dont think this made it wrong 
for Capital One to offer her a credit card in 2016. Given the time passed, I think Capital One could reasonably assume that any problems that led to the defaults had been resolved. 
Capital One says there was nothing on Miss Ws credit record to cause it concern.
Capital One offered Miss W a credit card account with an initial credit limit of £200. Based on 
the information it had about Miss W, I dont think it had any reason to think that amount of 
borrowing wouldnt be affordable and sustainable.
Capital One increased the credit limit several times. Capital One says it considered the 
conduct of Mrs Ws account and did credit checks each time it increased the limit. 
Miss W sometimes incurred a fee for a late payment or going over her credit limit. But I dont 
think this happened often enough to alert Capital One to a problem. 
Capital One says Miss Ws payments were generally higher than the minimum payment and 
generally on time. She repaid the balance in full on several occasions. It provided copies of 
account statements that support this. Miss W now says she could only make these 
payments by borrowing from family and friends. But I dont think Capital One could have 
known this.
Miss W provided a copy of her credit report. While Miss W says she was reliant on borrowing 
and using short term loans this isnt evident from her credit report. I don't think Capital 
One's credit checks would have alerted it to a possible problem. 
The last increase in Miss Ws credit limit was in early 2019, from £1,300 to £2,300. Mr K 
says a credit limit of £2,300 is too high, given Miss Ws stated income of £15,000 per year. 
This was a significant increase in her credit limit. So Ive looked carefully at what Capital One 
knew about Miss W at this time to see if it should have known it was increasing her 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable. 
Miss Ws balance was less than £300 in September 2018. She made payments of between 
£240 and £420 each month from October 2018 to March 2019: the minimum payments were 
less than £50. Her spending increased in late 2018  but I dont think thats unusual for the 
time of year. And she was within her credit limit. 
Ive also looked at how Miss W used her account, to see if theres anything that should have 
alerted Capital One to a problem (such as excessive cash withdrawals). But I dont think 
thats the case. Miss W appears to have used the card for normal expenditure, such as 
groceries, clothing, household items and transport. 
I can see that Miss W made minimum payments in most months from April 2019 and didnt 
make any payments in October and November 2019. But this was after the last time Capital 
One increased her credit limit. 
Miss W says her income is about £900 per month. She says this is solely from benefits as 
shes unable to work due to physical ill health and mental wellbeing issues. Miss W says she 
has difficulty meeting everyday costs for her and her children. Im sorry for the difficulties 
Miss W has described. But I dont think Capital One knew about this when it opened the 
account or when it increased her credit limits. I havent seen anything to suggest Miss W told 
Capital One about her difficulties before August 2019, when she raised a complaint. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Capital One to refund 
interest and charges or pay compensation. Capital One has to record accurate and up to 
date information on Miss Ws credit file. I havent seen any evidence its recorded information 
which is unfair or incorrect. So I wont be asking it to amend what its recorded on Miss Ws 
credit files.In November 2019 Capital One wrote to Miss W about her arrears and missed payments. It 
said it could offer a payment plan and provided information about this, as well as contact 
details for organisations offering fee independent debt advice. It asked Miss W to contact it 
with information about her income and expenditure. I would urge Miss W to do this. And Id 
remind Capital One about its duty to treat Miss W fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman