DRN-3052952
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund payments he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
Mr H contacted Halifax when he noticed a payment of £499 had debited his account on 2 
October 2020 and that there was also a pending one for £549 on 3 October 2020. He says 
he didnt recognise either. These payments were made through his account with an 
electronic money payment provider Ill anonymise here as X. He is unhappy that Halifax 
didnt agree to refund the money and that he has been passed between it and X about his 
complaint.
Halifax said that it had applied a temporary refund while it had raised a chargeback dispute 
through the card scheme. But X had provided information to show that the payments were 
made using Mr Hs details. The IP address it provided was one that Mr H had used to log in 
to his online banking account. It said that Mr H told it he had his debit card and hadnt 
allowed anyone to borrow it. And that he hadnt given anybody his details for X or responded 
to any suspicious calls or emails. It suggested he contact X directly if he was looking to 
pursue this further.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr H had 
accessed his online banking account with Halifax 40 minutes before a log in to his X account 
on 2 October 2020. The IP address used was the same. He also didnt think it likely that 
someone hacking into his account, as Mr H said happened, would have waited 24 hours 
between making payments. There was no other evidence to support this is what happened. 
Mr H had regularly made payments using X and so he didnt think Halifax ought to have 
identified these two as suspicious. And the pending payment couldnt be reversed as Mr H 
had wanted.
Mr H said that he didnt agree that the payments were authorised. He is pursuing a 
complaint against X who he didnt think had kept his account safe. He still didnt think that 
Halifax should have allowed the pending payment as he had told it that it wasnt authorised. 
This made it the opposite of being pending. He said that Halifax had all the information about 
the payments, and he didnt think that a sufficient investigation had been undertaken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with the card details. And if they werent authorised 
Mr H wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
Mr H has raised complaints with both Halifax and X, and I am issuing separate decisions 
about each. But these payments essentially arise from one authorisation event each time: 
that is the origination of a payment from Mr Hs X account funded by his Halifax debit card. 
So, Ill be making my decision here about whether these payments were authorised based 
on all the information and I will also be taking into account here specifically what Halifax did. 
The payments were made each time after a log in to Mr Hs X account. His Halifax debit card 
details were stored as a payment mechanism. Each of these payments were personal 
payments: that is to another individual rather than say to a merchant. The first was originated 
at 13:14 on 2 October 2020 and the second at 12:04 on 3 October 2020. Halifax raised 
chargeback requests and Ive seen the response from X. This included Mr Hs name and 
address and card details, and the IP address used to make the payments. So, Im satisfied 
that the payments were authenticated.
The issue I need to decide on is whether these were authorised. 
Halifax has noted that it discussed the payments with Mr H. And that he told it that he hadnt 
received suspicious calls, text or email relating to them. He told Halifax that he had an IT 
expert look at his computer and who said that there was malware. But Halifax concluded that 
as the IP address matched and there was no point of compromise for his security 
information it wouldnt be upholding the complaint.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service, and he said in a letter in January 2021 that he 
thought he may have been the victim of a phishing attempt and that he had evidence from 
a credit reference agency that his phone number was being published and sold online. He 
said that a computer expert had found malware on his computer and explained how 
passwords could be guessed and a computer taken over. His hard disc had now been wiped 
and he had new virus protection installed and had taken out identity protection insurance. 
Mr H also sent further comments in September 2021 after our investigator had issued a view 
on his complaint. He then stated that he had inadvertently allowed a fraudster to access his 
computer on two occasions believing this to be an official from a well-known operating 
software company.
When our investigator contacted X about the complaint it had additionally explained that it 
had sent a code to the phone number it had registered for Mr H and that this had been 
entered to enable payments to be made. Mr H said that he didnt receive or enter any code.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
appreciate that fraudsters are sophisticated and can take over accounts. But here in light of 
what Halifax has said Im looking for some evidence to support that  and that is now 
something that is also fairly the responsibility of Mr H to provide.  The position is that Mr H 
logged onto his Halifax account about 40 minutes before the first log in to his X account on 2 
October 2020. There is no suspicious activity as a result of his access to online banking. X 
has shown that it sent a code to authorise the payment at just before 13:13 and received this 
code entered back within a minute. As a result, the payment was sent. The further disputed 
payment wasnt made until the next day. Mr H didnt log back into his Halifax account until 4 
October 2020.
Ive set out above what Halifax has recorded about what Mr H said and what hes said to this 
service. Even if I was to accept as he now says that he allowed a third party to access his 
computer on two separate days that doesnt explain how his details for X were 
compromised.  He is clear he didnt provide them. There was no attempt to access his bank 
account directly. And no other attempts to take more money from his X account for nearly 24 
hours despite there being sufficient funds available through his debit card. He has no other evidence to support what he now says happened or an explanation of how the code from X 
was discovered by a third party. In any event he was reasonably expected to keep such 
security information safe.  And so, I dont find it most likely that these payments were 
unauthorised.
Im afraid that a payment is described as pending when it has been authenticated and is 
due to be collected and credited to the recipient. That doesnt mean as Mr H believes that it 
can be cancelled. And as I havent found either payment to be unauthorised I dont have a 
basis to find that Halifax should refund them. I also dont think that there was anything that 
ought to have meant that Halifax questioned these payments at the time they were 
processed. It suggested he speak to X to see if it could help regarding the payments and the 
specific payees and I think that was reasonable giving my findings here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman