DRN-1938192
The complaint
Mrs M complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (China Taiping) declined a 
claim on her insurance policy.
There are several parties involved in this complaint on behalf of the insurer but for ease I will 
only refer to Chine Taiping.
What happened
Mrs M lets out a property to tenants. In September 2019, her tenants moved out of the 
property and on inspection Mrs M found a great deal of damage, some of which appears to 
have been caused by the previous tenants having several pets in the property. Mrs M also 
says the property smells of urine and some items have been stolen from her garage.
Mrs M contacted China Taiping who sent someone to the property to review the damage. In 
their initial report they referred to some of the damage as malicious damage but then 
referred the matter back to the underwriter to see if cover was in place. Mrs M contacted 
China Taiping several months later and was told that the damage was wear and tear, which 
isnt covered under the policy. Mrs M doesnt agree the damage isnt covered under her 
insurance policy. China Taiping did identify that two items  the garage door and paint on the 
driveway  would be covered but that the cost of replacing these would be less than the 
£2,500 excess on the policy.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that she didnt 
think China Taiping had acted unfairly in declining this claim as she didnt think it was likely 
the damage was malicious and therefore it wasnt covered under the policy. Mrs M didnt 
agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
There is no doubt that Mrs Ms tenants have left her property in a terrible state of repair and 
caused significant damage to it. But insurance policies arent designed to cover every 
eventuality  rather they cover the policy holder for specific insured perils. China Taiping 
doesnt think that most of the damage caused to Mrs Ms property was caused by the 
specific perils shes covered for. It has acknowledged that there are two items she would be 
covered for under her policy terms  but that the total cost of reinstating these would be less 
than her policy excess. My role is to consider whether China Taiping acted reasonably in 
declining Mrs Ms claim against her policy.
Mrs M is claiming under the malicious damage peril. As the investigator explained, Malicious 
damage is damage caused to a property intentionally by another person. When considering 
claims for malicious damage, we will consider if the person intended to do harm to the 
property, in which case wed likely say it was malicious. Or whether the damage was caused 
through lack of maintenance, carelessness or neglect, where we generally wouldnt consider 
the damage to be malicious.
In this case, I can see that the tenants caused significant damage throughout the property. 
But the damage caused appears to be consistent with neglect and carelessness. I say this 
because while the property appears to have been left in an awful state of repair, I havent 
seen any evidence that the damage was malicious or that the tenants intended to cause 
harm. Rather it seems that the damage caused was caused over a period of time (such as 
the damage caused by the animals in the property and the leaking sink). And that the 
damage noted in the preliminary report is consistent with neglectful and careless behaviour 
on the part of the tenants, rather than an intention to cause harm.
I have also considered whether the damage Mrs M is claiming for is covered under any other 
sections of her policy  such as accidental damage. But I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Mrs M has accidental damage cover in place or that this damage would be covered 
under another section of the policy.
So while I have every sympathy for Mrs M for the upsetting situation she has found herself in 
after her previous tenants have caused significant damage to her property, I dont think most 
of the damage is covered under her policy  other than the two items China Taiping has 
already identified. So it follows that I dont think China Taiping needs to do anything further in 
relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman