DRN-3520704
The complaint
Miss P complains that Europ Assistance S.A. declined her claim against her legal expenses
insurance.
Reference to Europ Assistance includes its agents. Miss Ps mother, Ms G, has helped her
bring this complaint. For ease of reference, Ill refer to all submissions as having come from
Miss P herself. 
Miss Ps complaints about previous delay in dealing with her claims for medical and
repatriation assistance and legal expenses, and complying with a recommendation for
compensation have been dealt with separately.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss P had legal expenses insurance as part of her travel
insurance policy. In July 2020, Miss P was assaulted whilst on holiday. She made a
claim against her policy, which included a legal expense claim.
I understand that Ms G contacted a legal representative on Miss Ps behalf in July 2020
and whilst there were some preparatory steps, the legal representative didnt proceed
with Miss Ps claim as she hadnt received a response from Europ Assistance. As Ive
indicated above, Europ Assistances initial delay in dealing with the claim has been dealt
with in a separate complaint.
In December 2020, Europ Assistance contacted Miss Ps legal representative and asked
for certain documentation in order to assess the legal expenses claim. In early            
January 2021, Europ Assistance prompted Miss Ps legal representative for a response. In 
early April 2021, Europ Assistance repeated its request to Miss Ps legal representative. 
Europ Assistance received an automatic response explaining the legal representatives short
absence from the office. In early May 2021, Europ Assistance prompted the legal
representative again. In May 2021, Miss Ps legal representative responded to Europ
Assistance. She gave a basic outline of what had happened, set out the steps she
wanted to take in order to initiate criminal proceedings on Miss Ps behalf and asked for
€12,000.
Miss P says that Europ Assistance declined her claim for legal expenses because legal
advice was sought before it assessed and accepted the claim. She wants
Europ Assistance to cover the cost of her legal expenses. Europ Assistance says that it
hasnt declined the claim and it remains open but that it hasnt received the information
and documentation it needs from Miss Ps legal representative.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that whilst it was
reasonable for Europ Assistance to ask Miss Ps legal representative for details of the
case, it should have done more to get the information it required and kept Miss P better
informed about what was happening. The investigator recommended that                      
Europ Assistance pay Miss P compensation of £300 in relation to poor service, set out 
exactly what documentation it needs from her legal representative in order to progress the 
claim and discuss the claim with Ms G.
Europ Assistance didnt agree with the investigator. It said that it has no legal
relationship with Miss Ps legal representative and that it did enough in contacting the
legal representative for information on three occasions. Europ Assistance said its
unusual that the legal representative hasnt provided any papers or records or a copy of
the bill. It said it told this service about the documentation it requires in order to assess
the claim and that the exclusion in the policy relating to claims arising out of criminal
cases may apply here. Europ Assistance asked that an ombudsman consider the
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 10 May 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint for slightly different reasons and with a different 
outcome than had been suggested before. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as
follows:
SECTION J: LEGAL EXPENSES
What is covered:
The Insurer will pay you or your personal representative up to the amount as shown in the
Schedule of Benefits, to have an appointed adviser take legal action against third parties
(excluding any member of your family, or your travelling companion's family,
your travelling companion, business partner or employer) for any compensation owed to you
arising directly from physical bodily injury to you, or your death during the period of
insurance.
What is not covered:
The insurer will not pay for the following, in addition to the general exclusions, in
connection with claims made under Section J:
[]
Cover.
b. legal expenses incurred without prior authorisation from the Insurer.
[]
h. claims occurring under criminal law.
[]
SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
Prior to incurring any legal expenses the insured should contact the Claims Department, in
order to supply full details of the circumstances surrounding the potential claim.
You must comply with the following procedures when making a claim under section
J:
You shall apply to the insurer for a written acknowledgement by the insurer of the
existence of a potentially viable claim. The insurer shall not be responsible for any
legal expenses incurred prior to its issuing you with a written acknowledgement of
the existence of a potentially viable claim.
[]
GENERAL CONDITIONS WHICH APPLY TO YOUR WHOLE POLICY[]
5. You or your legal representatives must provide us with all policies, information and
evidence we require and in the format we require.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Europ Assistance has a responsibility to
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I have considerable sympathy for the situation Miss P found herself in and I dont doubt that
this was a very worrying time. I intend to uphold Miss Ps complaint for slightly different
reasons and with a different outcome than has been suggested before. Ill explain why.
Miss P complains that Europ Assistance declined her claim for legal expenses
because she incurred legal expenses before it assessed and authorised her claim.
That isnt the case. Europ Assistance says  and I accept  that it hasnt declined
Miss Ps claim for legal expenses. It says that the claim remains open but that it
hasnt received the information it needs from Miss Ps legal representative. Ill 
comment further about that below.
The policy provides that its for Miss P or her legal representatives to provide      
Europ Assistance with information and evidence. Thats not an unusual term in this 
sort of policy and I dont think that Europ Assistance is at fault in relying on it and in 
asking Miss Ps legal representative for certain information and evidence.
In December 2020, Europ Assistance asked Miss Ps legal representative for
information. In January 2021, it prompted the legal representative for a response and
in April 2021, it repeated its request. I dont think that Europ Assistance needed to do
more at that stage. I think Europ Assistance set out in clear terms what it needed
from Miss Ps legal representative. It was for Miss P or her legal representative to
provide the information Europ Assistance asked for.
When Miss Ps legal representative responded in May 2021, she didnt provide
Europ Assistance with the information and documentation it had requested. But the
legal representative did indicate that Miss Ps claim for legal assistance related to
bringing criminal proceedings following a serious assault. Based on what Ive seen,
Europ Assistance didnt respond to that. I think it should have done so.
Whilst Europ Assistance might have preferred to wait for further information before
assessing Miss Ps claim for legal assistance, I think that after Miss Ps legal
representatives response in May 2021, it had enough information to indicate to
Miss P or her legal representative that the claim appeared to relate to criminal law
and is therefore excluded under the policy. I think that Europ Assistances failure to
respond to Miss Ps legal representative and act on the basis of the information it had
in May 2021 prolonged Miss Ps uncertainty in relation to this matter and caused her
distress and inconvenience.
Miss Ps policy provides that Europ Assistance isnt responsible for any legal
expenses incurred before it issues a written acknowledgement of the existence of a
potentially viable claim. It hasnt provided Miss P with such an acknowledgement as it
says that it hasnt had the information it requested from Miss Ps legal representative.
There are no grounds on which I could fairly direct Europ Assistance to pay the legal
expenses Miss P has incurred to date.Given the sensitivities of the claim and the previous difficulties Miss P had in making
a claim for legal expenses, I think that Europ Assistance should have acted on the
information it received from Miss Ps legal representative in May 2021. Its failure to
do so caused Miss P distress and inconvenience. In order to put matters right, I think
that Europ Assistance should pay Miss P compensation of £300. In reaching that
view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of Miss Ps additional
distress and inconvenience caused by Europ Assistances poor service from
May 2021.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I intend to direct Europ Assistance to pay Miss P compensation of
£300 in relation to her distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Europ Assistance accepted my provisional decision. Ms G responded on Miss Ps behalf 
and said that if Europ Assistance had paid the solicitor she would have been able to 
bring a claim for criminal injuries. She doesnt know the value of the claim, but she 
expects it to be substantial. Ms G said that theres a correlation between the amount the 
solicitor asked for and the value of the claim. So, she didnt think that the compensation I 
intended to award made up for the loss Europ Assistance had caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that Europ Assistance was obliged to pay what Miss Ps legal representative 
asked for. Thats because it didnt have all the information it needed to assess the claim.
 
Europ Assistances failure to act on the information it had from Miss Ps legal representative 
in May 2021 - which indicated that the claim related to criminal law and was therefore 
excluded under the policy - caused Miss P distress and inconvenience. It was on that basis 
that I indicated I intended to direct Europ Assistance to pay Miss P compensation of £300. 
Im not seeking to compensate Miss P for the loss of what she might have recovered in any 
legal proceedings. Based on what Ive seen, its likely that the claim isnt covered under the 
policy. 
I do understand both Ms G and Miss Ps strength of feeling about this but, having 
reconsidered the matter, I dont see any reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in 
my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I now required Europ Assistance to pay Miss P compensation of 
£300.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint. Europ Assistance S.A. should now take 
the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman