DRN-3636067
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt close his credit card account resulting in 
adverse data being reported on his credit file.
 
What happened
In mid-2020 HSBC took the decision to end its banking relationship with Mr M. But, while his 
bank accounts were closed, HSBC didnt close Mr Ms credit card account. As a result, Mr M 
was able to continue to make transactions on the account.
Mr M continued to make his contractual minimum payments until March 2021, but he says 
he wasnt receiving statements, so he says he was unaware of the outstanding balance until 
he received a text message informing him of arrears on the account in April 2021. 
At this point, Mr M was experiencing some financial problems due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
and he contacted HSBC for support. HSBC offered Mr M a reduced payment plan for six 
months. This was extended further in October 2021. 
But Mr M says HSBC should have offered him a covid payment holiday as this wouldnt have 
impacted his credit file. He says the payment plan HSBC gave him has been reported on his 
credit file as missed payments instead of an arrangement to pay. Mr M added that the 
negative impact on his credit report has impacted on his ability to obtain mortgage finance. 
So, Mr M complained to HSBC.
HSBC acknowledged that it hadnt closed Mr Ms credit card account properly when it should 
have done and, as a result, statements of account werent issued. It credited Mr Ms account 
with £75 compensation in recognition of its error. But it pointed out that Mr M had continued 
to use the account. HSBC also said it was unable to offer Mr M a specific Covid payment 
holiday as the scheme ended in March 2021. 
   
Mr M remained dissatisfied with HSBC response and referred his complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators looked into it. She acknowledged that HSBC hadnt kept Mr M 
updated about the position of his credit card account. But she didnt think Mr M had been 
impacted by this as he had used the account and maintained his payments. She thought the 
£75 compensation HSBC had paid Mr M was fair in the circumstances. And that HSBC had 
provided appropriate support when he experienced financial difficulties.  
Mr M didnt accept this outcome. So, his complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity this decision solely relates to the events that happened after Mr Ms credit card 
account should have been closed. I make no findings on HSBCs decision to end its banking 
relationship with Mr M as this has been dealt with separately.
July 2020  March 2021
Its not in dispute that HSBC didnt fully close Mr Ms credit card account properly. HSBC 
has said the account was ring-fenced. And Ive seen that there was an outstanding balance 
on the account. So, Im not persuaded the account couldnt have been completely closed 
down as Mr M was still required to repay what he owed. 
But I agree that the account should have been blocked to prevent any further spending and 
the debt increasing. HSBC has not disputed it didnt action this correctly and paid £75 
compensation as a result. Overall, I think this compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
Mr M has said that if the account had been closed, he would have repaid the balance in full. 
And, as this didnt happen, he incurred further interest. So, Ive thought about this carefully. 
But Im not persuaded that Mr M would have repaid the balance in full at this time. I say this 
because Mr M was aware that HSBC intended to close the account and I havent seen 
anything that would make me think Mr M couldnt have repaid the balance in full at any time 
had he wanted to. But instead, Mr M continued to spend on the account and maintained his 
monthly payments. If Mr M had intended to repay the balance, Im not persuaded he would 
have continued to spend on the account. 
While Mr M shouldnt have been able to use the account further, it was his decision to do so. 
And as he has had the benefit of that spending on the account, Im satisfied that the balance 
plus any interest charged as a result is rightfully due.
I understand that Mr M didnt receive any statements during this period. But as Mr M 
continued to make his contractual repayments his credit file hasnt been impacted during this 
period. So, Im satisfied that Mr M hasnt lost out as a result of not receiving statements. In 
any event, if Mr M had needed to know the account balance or any other information about 
the account, he could have called HSBC at any time. 
Mr M has said that this amount of compensation essentially doesnt punish HSBC. But our 
role is not to punish firms  we are not the industry regulator. Our role is to decide if the 
compensation offered fairly reflects the impact of HSBCs failing. 
April 2021 onwards
Mr M says the first time HSBC contacted him was in April 2021 and this was to say he was 
in arrears. Mr M says that HSBC contacted him by text message. But Ive also seen that 
HSBC sent a letter to Mr M. The letter is dated 5 April 2021 and it makes Mr M aware that he 
had missed a payment and what action was needed to correct this matter. 
Overall, I think HSBC did enough at this point to let Mr M know the status of his account and 
what he needed to do. But, by this point, Mr M was experiencing some financial difficulties. 
And Ive seen that Mr M asked HSBC for a payment holiday. 
From April 2020 lenders had been offering payment holidays to consumers financially 
impacted by the pandemic. These schemes - issued under guidance issued by the regulator, 
allowed consumers to miss payments of up to six months  to be taken in two, three-month 
blocks. And during these payments holidays, lenders werent required to report the 
information to the credit reference agencies (CRA).But by April 2021 these schemes had been withdrawn to new applicants. So, Im satisfied 
that HSBC didnt do anything wrong when it didnt offer Mr M a Covid payment holiday.
However, lenders were still required to act positively and sympathetically to support a 
consumer in financial difficulty  in line with the usual regulations. And, from what Ive seen 
HSBC assessed       Mr Ms situation and offered him a reduced payment plan and charges 
and interest were suspended. This was initially for six months and was later extended. 
HSBC has also shown that Mr Ms account has not been charged interest since April 2021. 
And that a payment plan is currently in place. So, I think HSBC is treating Mr Ms financial 
difficulties fairly. If Mr M is struggling to meet the payments under his current plan, I would 
urge him to contact them to discuss his current circumstances.
Credit Reference Agency reporting
When reduced payment plans are agreed  outside of a covid relief scheme, a lender has an 
obligation to record information to reflect this and any other issues about the management of 
the account to the CRA. Mr M has said that HSBC didnt tell him that a payment plan would 
impact his credit file and recorded his payment plan as missed payments rather than an 
arrangement to pay.
So, Ive looked at the credit file report Mr M has provided to us. And I can see that from 
November 2021  January 2022 (three months) his HSBC credit card was reporting as 
status code 5. 
HSBC has provided a copy of letter it sent to Mr M - dated 18 October 2021, which sets out 
the terms of the payment plan. This letter, which is addressed to the same address we hold 
for Mr M, includes information indicating that the payment plan will be reported to the CRA. 
As the letter was sent before the adverse data was reported, Im persuaded that HSBC did 
enough to let me Mr M know that his credit file would be affected by his payment plan.
   
A status Code 5 refers to an account being in arrears. Given Mr M was paying less than his 
contractual payments this information isnt incorrect. And even if the account was being 
reported as being in an arrangement to pay, Im satisfied that this is still classed as negative 
credit file information. So, Im persuaded Mr Ms credit file and his ability to obtain credit 
would have always been impacted. Either way of reporting the status of Mr Ms account 
would indicate to another lender that Mr M was experiencing problems servicing his credit 
card. So, Im not persuaded that HSBC has reported information to the CRA in a way that 
has unfairly impacted Mr Ms credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that, HSBC has 
paid fair compensation for its mistake in not closing Mr M credit card account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Sandra GreeneOmbudsman