DRN-2254171
The complaint
Mr K complains about what happened when he closed his savings account with Nottingham
Building Society (NBS).
What happened
Mr K said that he closed his savings account with NBS on a Sunday. He told us there was
no online confirmation that his account was closing. And he said he only received interest up
until Sunday, but the terms of this account were quite clear that interest shouldve been paid
up until Monday.
Mr K said that NBS has made the same mistake in the past too. He complained to NBS, and
it denied any wrongdoing, so he asked for a detailed interest calculation. And he said that
when he asked about NBSs complaints process, he was told there was no specific form,
and he could complain by secure message, telephone or via letter. He said that showed
NBS staff have no clue. Mr K wanted £500 in compensation to make up for this.
At first, NBS said that the interest calculation had been worked out to include Monday, but
Mr K said he had reached different figures, and NBS accepted that it was wrong. It said that
it was addressing this with its IT department to make sure it didnt happen again, and also
looking to add confirmation of account closure to its online system. NBS apologised for
incorrect information, and offered £10 to cover loss of interest and inconvenience. Mr K said
that amount was insulting.
Our investigator said that Mr Ks understanding of the terms of the account was right. His
account closure shouldve been processed on Monday, and interest paid for the Monday.
Our investigator said that £10 was likely to cover the missing interest, as it was only one day,
and a low interest rate. But he said this should be done properly, so NBS should work out
the interest for one day, and pay that to Mr K, along with £50 for poor service, incorrect
advice and inconvenience to him during this process. He didnt think NBS had to pay the
£500 Mr K had asked for, he felt that was disproportionate to the events that took place.
NBS said it would pay £50 to settle the complaint, although that wasnt quite what our
investigator had suggested. But Mr K didnt want to accept that. He disagreed with the
suggested compensation, and said that the assessment didnt address the shambolic
service he received when he asked for a copy of the complaints procedure.
Our investigator said we couldnt always consider complaint handling, but in this instance, he
couldnt see anything wrong with the service NBS provided in handling Mr Ks complaint.
And he asked why Mr K disagreed with the compensation amount.
Mr K summarised his complaint for us, and said hed wasted a considerable amount of time,
which was worth more than £50. Our investigator said hed pass this to an ombudsman, and
the case then came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Unlike our investigator, I dont think that NBS has to provide a full calculation of 
missing interest. I think its payment of £10 in compensation is likely to be more than 
sufficient to cover the missing interest.
Mr K said that this had happened before, and he says hes caught NBS ripping 
people off. I dont know if this has happened before, but if it has, then I can 
understand why Mr K would be so concerned. But our service doesnt have 
overarching powers to check how NBS is calculating interest, and require it to put 
that right for the future. We arent a regulator. We can only consider whats gone 
wrong in this case. Our service doesnt penalise businesses, and my award has to be 
about putting things right for Mr K, not about deterring NBS from making the same 
mistake again.
That said, I dont think that a payment of £10 enough to make up for all that has gone 
wrong here. Mr K has shown that NBSs terms set out that it wont close accounts on 
a Sunday. Those terms say it closes the account on the following working day. So I 
agree that it should calculate interest up until the following Monday too.
NBS offered only £10 in compensation. Our investigator suggested £50, but Mr K 
said his time was worth more than this. When I assess the appropriate level of 
compensation for a complaint, I look at the impact the complaint has had, and seek 
to provide a fair and reasonable outcome. And in this case, whilst I recognise Mr Ks 
frustrations, I think that the impact on Mr K of this incorrect interest calculation was 
otherwise relatively limited. So I think £50 in compensation would provide a fair 
outcome to that part of his complaint.
Mr K also said we needed to address the service he received when he asked for a 
copy of the complaints procedure. Ive read the messages he wanted us to consider, 
and I dont agree that the service NBS provided was shambolic. Mr K asked for a 
link to your complaints process or a pdf copy of it. In response, he was told there 
was no specific form he had to use. Mr K was asking about the process NBS uses to 
deal with complaints. But NBS had understood that he was asking about the process 
to register a complaint. I think that this was a simple misunderstanding, rather than 
evidence of poor service by NBS. I dont think this part of Mr Ks complaint should be 
upheld.
Ive considered this case carefully, and I think a total payment of £60 would provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. Ill allow NBS to offset the £10 it 
offered against my award, if it has already paid that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
NBS accepted the decision. Mr K said he had nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Nottingham Building Society must pay Mr K £60 in total. Nottingham 
Building Society can count towards that amount any money it has already paid Mr K for this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman