DRN-3098931
The complaint
Ms S complains that Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited (Carnegie) are refusing to allow 
her to transfer a loan into another persons name despite promising they would.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement.
So, if Ms S was told something that was false by the company that brokered the credit 
agreement, and if that false statement led her to enter into an agreement she wouldnt 
otherwise have entered into, Id think the agreement had been misrepresented to her and Id 
ask Carnegie to take some action.
Ms S says that the broker told her she would be able to transfer the credit agreement to 
another person but theres no corroboration of that. The WhatsApp messages provided dont 
show that anybody promised the account ownership could be transferred.
On the other hand, the agreement clearly explains that Ms S is entering into a fixed sum loan 
and sets out the amount of the loan, the instalments to be paid and the period over which 
those instalments were to be due. The agreement Ms S signed says sign only if you want to 
be legally bound by its terms and it explains Ms Ss withdrawal rights.
On balance I dont think theres sufficient evidence Ms S was promised the account could be 
transferred. I think its unlikely such a promise would or could be made. Thats because the 
business has a responsibility to lend responsibly and it hadnt been able to complete any 
checks on the other person Ms S says the agreement would be transferred to. That meant 
they couldnt have known if the agreement was affordable to him.
So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence this loan was misrepresented to Ms S.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman