DRN-3076565
The complaint
Mr S complains that Financial Administration Services Limited gave an advisor full access to 
manage his accounts without his authority.
What happened
Mr S says he gave authority for his advisor to have access to information about his 
accounts, but Financial Administration Services gave the advisor full management access. 
He only realised this when he was denied management access himself.
He says he had to call several times to get the advisor removed from his account and that it 
took 48 hours for the removal. He says it was time consuming for him to put things right and 
that it was potentially a serious breach of security.
Financial Administration Services said the instruction it received was to provide the advisor 
with full servicing rights. It said Mr S only gave explicit instructions to remove the advisor 
during a call on 23 June 2020 and that the advisor was removed the following day.
It apologised for the delay in investigating Mr Ss complaint and providing a response and 
offered to pay him £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
Financial Administration Services had acted unreasonably because Mr S had authorised for 
his advisor to receive fees and commission.
Mr S didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He authorised the advisor to obtain information about his accounts and to receive 
existing fees and commission. He didnt authorise the advisor to carry out any 
transactions on his accounts.
Financial Administration Services should have sought clarification because his advisors 
instructions differed from the authority hed given. Or the request should have been 
rejected.
The advisor could have made or changed investments on his account when it didnt have 
his authority to do so. He was also prevented from making any changes himself because 
his ability to manage his own account was removed when his advisor was added.
The same instructions were provided to other businesses, all of whom set up the advisor 
as receiving information only, not having servicing rights.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
The advisor instructed Financial Administration Services to transfer the servicing of these 
plans to our business. The accompanying letter of authority signed by Mr S said:
Please accept this letter as my/our authority for you to provide [the advisor] with the above 
policies/accounts or plan numbers which were arranged by or are held with your company. 
Please also transfer any ongoing commissions or Advisor fees which are paid in connection 
with these plans to [the advisor]
Whilst the authority could have been clearer, I dont think it was unreasonable for Financial 
Administration Services to interpret this as authority to give the advisor full servicing rights. 
I say this because Mr S had authorised the transfer of ongoing commission and fees to be 
transferred to the advisor. In this situation its normal for fees and commission to be paid in 
return for advisor management services. And the covering letter from the advisor provided 
any clarity that was needed by confirming authority had been given for full servicing rights.
In coming to this conclusion, I appreciate this is not what Mr S wanted, nor what he thought 
he had agreed with his advisor. But I think the instruction given to Financial Administration 
Services was clear enough for it not to need to clarify it, or to reject it.
Ive taken into account that Mr S says other businesses received the same instructions and 
only allowed his advisor access to information. But that doesnt change my conclusion  my 
role is to consider what Financial Administration Services did or didnt do and whether it 
acted reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr S says his advisor could have carried out trades on his account. Or that he may have 
wanted to trade himself. But I cant consider something that might have happened. And, as 
I dont find Financial Administration Services made a mistake here, I dont find it needs to 
compensate Mr S.
I do understand this was both frustrating and worrying for Mr S. But, when he instructed 
Financial Administration Services to remove the advisors ability to manage his accounts, 
I think it acted within a reasonable timescale. I appreciate Mr S wanted the advisor removed 
immediately, but this wasnt reasonably possible, taking into account Financial 
Administration Services internal procedures.
I can see that Mr S didnt receive a promised call back on 22 June and he had to phone 
again the following day. Whilst I think Financial Administration Services customer service 
could have been better here, as I havent found it made a mistake which led to a financial 
loss, I dont find it appropriate to award any compensation.
Financial Administration Services did offer Mr S £100 for the delay in responding to his 
complaint. I consider this to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mr S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth DawesOmbudsman