DRN-2867834
The complaint
Miss C complains about the service she has received from Cabot Credit Management Group 
Limited (Cabot) when dealing with it regarding an outstanding account she had.
Miss C is represented in this complaint but for ease of reading I have referred to Miss C 
throughout.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties and not in dispute so I have 
not gone into great detail in summarising it here.
Miss C raised a number of issues with Cabot that she was unhappy with during her 
dealings with it, they are:
it incorrectly sent her an email about making regular payments after it had told her in 
a letter that no payments were required.
She disputes Cabot's need, in law, to ask the specific security questions it does
she is concerned about how the default, Cabot registered, appears on her credit file - 
specifically the business name that is recorded against it
she would like the default removed from her credit file, now that Cabot has decided to 
no longer pursue the outstanding amount on her account
she is concerned about how Cabot obtained phone numbers for her and if it has 
shared these with other entities
it has told her it will treat further requests to provide call recordings as partial Data 
Subject Access Requests (DSAR) and may charge £10 for these
she is concerned about the service Cabot provided on calls  and specifically one 
call where a manager joined the call without warning and another where the call 
handler was working in the office during the pandemic  and Miss C alleges they told 
her they were doing so because they were a key worker
Cabot didn't uphold Miss C's complaint but did give her explanations for her points. Miss C 
remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to this service.
The investigator that considered her complaint didn't uphold it, in summary they said they 
were happy with the explanations given by Cabot to the points Miss C had raised. And they 
didn't think Cabot had acted unfairly towards Miss C. Miss C disagreed and so the matter 
has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. Miss C and Cabot have sent this service a 
lot of information for me to consider during the course of this complaint. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt 
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either 
party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, 
to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Miss C that I won't be upholding her complaint, for broadly the 
same reasons as the investigator, I'll explain.
Email sent in error about regular payments
Cabot has explained that in order to send a statement to Miss C, which it had promised to do 
as a result of a previous complaint, it had to remove the hold from her account. This meant 
that the system auto generated the email about regular payments which was sent to Miss C. 
Cabot apologised for its error.
I understand Miss C doesn't believe it should have been necessary for Cabot to have to  
remove the hold on her account to be able to send the statement. However, it is not for me 
to decide what processes and systems Cabot puts in place to deal with its customers, it is 
only for me to see that they have followed those processes. I've seen nothing to suggest that 
Cabot didn't follow its processes here and so I'm satisfied the apology it has already given is 
sufficient in the circumstances.
Security questions
In order to identify that it is speaking to the correct person, before sharing information, 
Cabot, like many other organisations, asks a series of security questions. In line with 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Cabot has to ensure that it protects the data it 
holds about its customers. GDPR does not set out exactly what questions the business 
should ask when identifying its customers, it is for the business to decide this and set its 
processes. From what I've seen here the questions Cabot asks when identifying its 
customers is in line with its processes. So, it follows I can't reasonably say it has done 
anything wrong in asking the questions it did.
Phone numbers
Cabot explained that it obtained phone numbers for Miss C from various legitimate sources 
including the original creditor and a credit reference agency. It is quite common for firms 
such as Cabot to obtain information in this way, so I don't think there is anything untoward 
here.
Miss C has expressed her concern that Cabot may have shared these numbers with other 
entities, however I've seen nothing to suggest that this is the case. So, without any evidence 
to the contrary I can't fairly say Cabot has done anything wrong here.
Default
Cabot has companies that operate within its group to purchase accounts from credit 
providers, that have fallen into arrears. Miss Cs account was purchased in this way and the 
purchasing company was named on the Notice of Assignment (NOA) letter that was sent to 
Miss C. However, the default that is registered on her credit file shows the Cabot 
Management Group Limited name and not the purchasing company name. 
Miss C was concerned this is incorrect. Having looked at the NOA I can see it says the 
purchasing company is part of the Cabot Credit Management Group and so Im satisfied this 
was recorded correctly.In response to this complaint Cabot has decided to stop pursuing Miss C for the outstanding 
amount on her account. Miss C has said since it is no longer pursuing her it should remove 
the default from her credit file. But I don't agree - Cabot has made a commercial decision to 
not pursue Miss C for this debt. That's not the same as saying that she isn't liable for the 
debt. There has been no dispute that the account belonged to Miss C or that she owed the 
outstanding balance. And as such Cabot has a duty to report a true reflection of the facts to 
the credit reference agencies to be included on Miss C's credit file. So, it follows I won't be 
asking it to remove the default here.
Data Subject Access Requests (DSAR).
Miss C has made multiple requests for information from Cabot, with which it has complied. It 
has now told Miss C that as it is already provided a significant amount of call recordings to 
her, if she requires more, they would consider the requests to be a partial DSAR and may 
charge £10 for these. It has said however that if it is a specific recording that Miss C 
requires, they would arrange this free of charge.
GDPR sets out:
In most cases you cannot charge a fee to comply with a DSAR. However, you can
charge a reasonable fee for the administrative costs of complying with a request if it
is manifestly unfounded or excessive, or if an individual request further copies of
their data.
Given the above I don't think it's unreasonable for Cabot to have informed Miss C that it may 
apply a charge to any further requests she makes. As Cabot hasn't made any charges for 
the information it has provided to Miss C, at this time, I've not considered this point any 
further. 
Customer service on calls
There are two calls in particular that Miss C complains about  these were calls between 
Cabot and Miss Cs representative. Having listened to the calls I think the call handlers tried 
to help as much as they could. They were polite, professional and trying to be helpful, not 
hostile as the representative suggested during the call.
During one of the calls the representative questioned why the call handler was in the office, 
and Miss C has specifically complained about this point. But I dont see how the call handler 
working in the office, and not from home, has any bearing on how Cabot has treated Miss C 
when dealing with her account and so I wont be commenting on it further.
Miss C has also raised concerns about the call where a team leader joined the call part way 
through. She has said it worried her as she was unaware he had been listening. And this 
could have been a breach of her data as she didnt know who he was. I understand Miss Cs 
concerns here, but Cabot has confirmed that its system allows for team leaders to be able to 
listen in on live calls to offer support to the call handlers when needed. In this call the team 
leader introduced himself and Cabot has confirmed he does work for it and is a team leader. 
So, Im satisfied that there was nothing untoward happening on this call. Unfortunately, the 
line did drop after the team leader joined the call and Cabot has apologised for this. Im 
satisfied it did enough here. 
I understand Miss Cs strength of feeling about the service Cabot has provided to her when 
dealing with her account and I know Miss C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my 
decision ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Cabot  can do for her.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman