DRN-3345603
The complaint
Miss J complains that TSB Bank plc has debited her account with £200 when she only 
received £160 from a cash machine.
What happened
Miss J used a cash machine at TSB on 11 October 2020. She says she entered her card 
and PIN but before she requested anything £160 of cash was dispensed. She says that the 
amount was checked by a taxi driver waiting for her. As she thought that this wasnt hers she 
then requested £300 which she did receive. She believed that her daily withdrawal limit was 
£300. When she saw that £200 had also been debited from her account she reported this.
TSB said it wouldnt be refunding any money. It checked the cash machine and said that it 
balanced. It explained that it had increased the daily cash withdrawal limit as a result of the 
pandemic to £500. And there were no errors with the cash machine.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The disputed entry took 
place at 11:13 and the following withdrawal at 11:14. TSB had provided evidence showing 
that the £200 was dispensed in 20 £10 notes and taken. It had also provided a balancing 
sheet for the machine covering the period 8 to 14 October 2020 and showing that there were 
no errors. If money had been retained by the machine and still debited to Miss Js account 
hed expect to have seen a surplus balance. TSB was no longer able to provide the cash 
machine journal roll showing the use of the machine before and after Miss J. But it had noted 
that it had viewed this at the time. 
Miss J didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
understand Miss Js position that she never requested this amount in the first place and that 
she only received £160 but was debited for £200. She is very specific about what happened 
and that she received some cash. 
Its possible for an automated cash machine to malfunction. But it would be unusual for cash 
requested by another customer before Miss J put her card and PIN into the machine to then 
be dispensed and charged to her. I also accept that she thought that the daily cash machine 
limit was £300, and she then went onto to withdraw what I understand to be the £300 that 
she wanted. And this also led her to believe that her understanding of what happened must 
have been correct.
TSB has provided its evidence about the complaint. It has a record showing that £200 was 
requested by and correctly dispensed to Miss J and received. And it has explained why she 
was able to request a total of £500. The machine was balanced with no errors over the 
period. Its staff reviewed the dispute and checked the records at the time. And so, it says 
that this all supports that the correct amount of money was dispensed to Miss J.
I need to consider all the information in making my decision. There is nothing to support an 
error being made. And while I dont have reason to doubt that Miss J may have thought she 
had only received £160 and was £40 short of what she found out shed been debited for Im 
afraid on balance I dont think that this is most likely what had happened. I know she will be 
disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman