DRN-4415591
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave him four 
credit cards that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 1 March 2018, Mr S applied for and was given a credit card with a credit limit of £200. 
The card was paid off in full and closed in September 2018. 
On 10 January 2019, Mr S applied for and was given a credit card with a credit limit of 
£200. The card was paid off in full and closed in May 2020. 
On 10 August 2020, Mr S applied for and was given a credit card with a credit limit of 
£200. The card was paid off in full and closed in March 2021. 
On 9 September 2021, Mr S applied for and was given a credit card with a credit limit of 
£500. 
In 2023, Mr S complained to Capital One to say that the credit cards shouldnt have been 
opened for him because they werent affordable and that Capital One ought to have made 
a better effort to understand his financial circumstances before providing him with credit. 
Capital One declined to uphold the complaint. And Mr S brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr S disagreed with that. So, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ss complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr S provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. Mr S declared an income that was not modest both in 
itself and in relation to the very modest credit card credit limits. I think that the income was 
sufficient to underpin such modest credit card amounts for all the lending decisions in this 
complaint.
At the time of each lending decision, Capital One carried out a credit search in Mr Ss 
name to assess Mr Ss level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Capital One 
decided to agree to the credit limits detailed above. I have considered the credit check 
information for each lending decision. Having done so, I have seen insufficient in them to 
have made Capital One think they should avoid further lending to Mr S.  
I say that because the Capital One checks showed that the extent of Mr Ss existing 
borrowing was not such that it made any further lending automatically unreasonable. And 
Mr Ss credit file was largely clean at the time of the credit card application. When I say 
this, I mean that Mr Ss management of his existing credit showed no recent history of 
CCJs, defaults or bankrupcty. 
And Capital One had experience of Mr Ss management of his previous credit cards for 
each subsequent lending decision. Whilst I have seen some evidence of late payments 
on those accounts, I have seen insufficient in Mr Ss past use of credit from Capital One 
that would have led them to want to avoid providing further lending to him. 
So, whilst I have seen some evidence of adverse lending on the credit checks, it would 
have seemed to Capital One from the information they had from credit reference agencies 
that, at the point that the lending decisions were made, Mr S was affording his existing 
credit in the months closest to the new lending. And although there was evidence of some 
late payments on Mr Ss existing credit cards with Capital One, they were each paid off in 
full before a new card was applied for. 
And so, Capital One were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from 
that. And so, I dont think that the information that Capital One had at the time of the 
lending decisions, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching 
enquiries of Mr Ss expenditure. 
I cannot use hindsight in deciding complaints about unaffordable lending. I have seen no 
evidence that Mr S made Capital One aware of his gambling at the time the first credit 
card in this complaint was applied for or thereafter. Looking at the statements for the 
credit cards, there was only minimal usage of credit provided by Capital One for that 
purpose. And whilst Mr S is correct to raise with us the issue of the cash withdrawals he 
made, there was no obvious reason Capital One should have thought these were being 
used for gambling. 
And neither Mr Ss management of his credit cards nor his management of his other 
borrowings had been adversely obviously affected by it at the time the subsequent credit 
cards were taken out. So, I dont think that Capital One had any reason to make further 
enquiries before lending or to have avoided the credit cards. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr S to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
Capital One were at fault for not making more searching enquiries into Mr Ss 
circumstances before providing Mr S with the modest amounts of credit that they did. For 
the same reason I do not think the credit cards Capital One provided were unreasonable. 
I have considered all the submissions made in this case, particularly those that inform the 
time of the lending decisions. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. I have seen insufficient evidence to think that the credit Capital 
One are responsible for was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman