DRN-2679845
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr R has an income protection policy provided by Aviva through his employer. Mr R suffered 
with hypercalcemia which prompted him to claim on his insurance. He said that he became 
too unwell to work in February 2018 and was later diagnosed with the condition. He was 
treated in June the same year, however he continued to feel unwell after his operation. 
Mr R said that Aviva unfairly declined his claim. He said that he experienced several 
symptoms post-surgery and that he was unable to return to work. Mr R saw a cardiologist, 
who referred him for an MRI scan and a molecular genetics analysis to help determine the 
root cause of his problems, and that Aviva should pay his claim on that basis. 
Aviva said there wasnt enough medical evidence to suggest Mr R was suffering with a 
medical condition of a severity that would preclude him from work. It said that hed not met 
the definition of incapacity as described by its policy. 
Our investigator agreed with Aviva. He said there was no medical evidence to suggest that 
Mr R was unable to work for the whole of the deferred period due to his hypercalcemia. And 
that there was no medical evidence to say that hed suffered with a medical condition post-
surgery. And so, its for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons for doing so are largely the same as 
those already explained by Aviva and our investigator in that Mr R hasnt met the definition 
of incapacity described under the policy. Ill explain why. 
The policy defines incapacity as;
"The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her normal
occupation and other occupations to which they are suited by reason of education, training 
or experience, as a result of their illness or injury
 
Mr R was diagnosed with a medical condition that was successfully treated in June 2018. 
The follow up appointment with the surgeon persuaded me that was the case, he said; Mr R 
is well. He developed intermittent numbness and tingling in his fingers and a few muscle 
cramps after the operation, which is most likely related to early transient postoperative 
hypocalcaemia and so although I noted Mr Rs complaints post-surgery, they appear 
relatively minor and didnt give the treating surgeon much cause for concern. 
Mr R was referred to other specialists in order to determine whether there was perhaps an 
undiagnosed problem that was behind the symptoms he experienced, but Ive not seen any 
persuasive medical evidence in that regard. The cardiologist didnt note any abnormalities 
normal cardiac structure and function on echo and neither did the molecular genetic 
analysis as it said the analysis did not detect a pathogenic variant in this individual and so 
this is why Aviva hasnt made a mistake in its declination of Mr Rs claim. Theres simply no 
medical condition for it to assess against the policy criteria. 
I note Mr R was referred for an MRI scan by the cardiologist to ensure there was nothing 
more happening which may have gone undetected by the diagnostic tests already 
performed, but Ive not seen any medical evidence to that effect.  
I note Mr Rs arguments about receiving FIT notes from his GP saying that hes not well 
enough to work, but in the absence of a diagnosis, I find this evidence unpersuasive. 
Further, Im satisfied the FIT notes are reflective of Mr Rs self-reported symptoms, which Im 
not disputing, but theres no medical evidence to suggest hes suffering with a medical 
condition that would preclude him from work. 
Aviva suggested that following Mr Rs treatment for hypercalcemia in June 2018, he should 
have recovered within one-month post-surgery. Mr R said this caused him significant 
problems at work and suggested his employer then began to doubt his symptoms. I must be 
clear in that I cannot consider the employers actions here, but I should say that Aviva hasnt 
done anything wrong by saying this. I say that because its the opinion of its chief medical 
officer and its not out of line with medical guidance which suggests this is usually the case. 
There will be exceptions as not all recoveries are the same, however, theres no medical 
evidence to support that Mr Rs recovery was abnormal given the surgeons comments 
above. 
And so, because Mr R hasnt satisfied the criteria of the policy, theres no cover in the 
circumstances and Aviva doesnt need to do anything more.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman