DRN-1621738
 
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) told credit reference 
agencies he missed two payments onto his credit card account. He wants Barclays to 
amend the data credit reference agencies hold for him and pay compensation. 
What happened
Mr M said Barclays had reported his December 2018 credit card payment to credit reference 
agencies as being over a month late. But Mr M said that wasnt right, the payment was due 
in December and paid in December. Mr M wanted an apology, the mistake corrected, and 
significant compensation for what he said Barclays had done wrong. 
Mr M also said his November payment had been reported as over a month late. And that 
wasnt true either. Hed made the payment on time on the Barclaycard website using a card, 
and got acknowledgement that the payment was accepted. But the website failed, and the 
payment wasnt processed. As soon as he became aware of this he made a payment. So Mr 
M wanted Barclays to remove the entry saying that this payment was a month late too. 
Barclays said the information it had reported to credit reference agencies was factual. It said 
that Mr Ms November payment was missed. It was due on 12 November. Barclays called for 
a direct debit payment on that day. But the payment failed. Barclays said it couldnt see any 
attempt by Mr M to make an online payment at that time. 
Barclays also said Mr Ms next payment was due on 19 December, but not received until 21 
December. Barclays reported those payments as late. The December payment showed as 
over a month late because hed also missed the November payment. It didnt think that it had 
done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he hadnt seen any 
evidence that supported what Mr M said about trying to make the November payment. Mr 
Ms payment wasnt received in November. And Mr Ms statements showed his December 
payment was received two days late. 
Our investigator had seen the information Barclays sends to credit reference agencies, and 
he thought it had just reported accurately. He also said Mr Ms terms and conditions set out 
when payment has to be received, and the potential impact on his credit file if payment 
wasnt received. 
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays had provided credit reference agencies with 
inaccurate information. 
Mr M said that until recently the late marker was only applied if payment was made in the 
next month, like if a payment for December wasnt made until January. Thats because most 
credit card providers can be asked to move the payment date to any date in the month. So 
he wanted his credit record amended for December to show that payment was made.Our investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence to support what Mr M was saying about 
this. He thought that Barclays had complied with the relevant reporting principles by 
recording the December payment as late.  
Mr M said Barclays' terms and conditions didnt allow it to behave as it did. He wanted this 
complaint considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms payment for November wasnt received by Barclays. Mr M told us he tried to pay, but 
neither Barclays nor Mr M seems to have any evidence to support that. On what Ive seen, I 
think its likely that Mr Ms direct debit just failed. 
Mr Ms December payment wasnt received on time by Barclays. It was two days late. Mr M 
hasnt disputed this. 
Mr M didnt think Barclays was entitled to record these payments as late with a credit 
reference agency. He said the terms and conditions of his account dont allow that. But I 
dont think thats right. 
The terms state clearly that the payment must arrive by the payment due date every month. 
They also say -
If you miss a payment, the following will apply to your account  Your records with 
credit reference agencies maybe affected, meaning it may be harder or more 
expensive for you to borrow in future.
I think that makes clear that Barclays will share information with credit reference agencies. I 
dont think that Barclays breached Mr Ms terms and conditions when it did so.
Mr M also said that hes allowed to change his payment date, so he didnt think that a 
payment in the same month should be recorded as late. There is some flexibility within the 
terms of his account for him to ask to change the payment date. But I dont think that 
prevents Barclays from considering that these payments were made late. They werent 
received by the due date, and Mr M hadnt asked to move the payment date. 
Ive also seen the information that Barclays has shared with credit reference agencies. I 
think that information was factual. And Ive explained why I dont think theres anything in Mr 
Ms terms and conditions to prevent it from sharing that information. 
For those reasons, I dont think that Barclays has to ask credit reference agencies to amend 
Mr Ms credit file. And I dont think it needs to pay him compensation. 
I know that Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2020.Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman