DRN-2412849
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc destroyed his life insurance policy documents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In 1994 Mr M applied for a mortgage with HSBC (formerly known as Midland Bank Plc). Life 
cover was a condition of lending and so Mr M also took out a mortgage protection policy. 
This provided decreasing life cover with an initial sum assured of £30,000 for monthly 
premiums of £6.60.
The life insurance policy ended in 2019. But, in the months prior to this, Mr M contacted 
HSBC about the sale of the policy as he felt it was mis-sold. After receiving HSBCs 
response, in which they said they didnt think it was mis-sold, Mr M asked them to provide 
the policy documentation they held on file. The documentation was however destroyed when 
the policy term ended so Mr M didnt receive it.
Mr M complained to HSBC about the policy documents being destroyed. He said hed 
requested the policy documentation before its term ended and that HSBC told him on two 
separate occasions that it had been sent to him.
HSBC said the documentation was destroyed in line with their procedures when the policy 
expired as it had no value. And they explained that this happened even though there was a 
note on Mr Ms file requesting the document(s) be released to him. HSBC confirmed 
feedback had been passed to the department responsible and, in acknowledgment of the 
distress and inconvenience this matter had caused, offered Mr M £150 compensation.
The complaint was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think HSBC had to do 
anything further. He said that while HSBC didnt send the documents to Mr M as they said 
they would before destroying them, the policy details are available to him. Our investigator 
also didnt think Mr M had suffered financially because of this and so considered the £150 
compensation fair for the trouble and upset hed suffered as a result of what happened.
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I explain my decision, I want to clarify that Im only looking at the destruction of the 
policy documents here. And so, while Mr M has raised concerns about the sale of the policy, 
this has been addressed by our service as a separate complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr M is dissatisfied with whats happened as, before being informed the 
policy documents were destroyed, he was led to believe that they had been sent to him. Its 
therefore understandable that Mr M wouldve been concerned to find out otherwise. But, 
what I must consider here is whether HSBC should do anything further. I know this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr M but for the reasons Ill explain I dont think they do.
I dont think HSBC deliberately destroyed the documents in response to Mr Ms request for 
them but rather, Im satisfied it was done as part of their normal retention policy. I therefore 
consider what happened to be a human error on HSBCs part, and so a service issue. And 
HSBC accept that they ought to have sent the policy documentation to Mr M, as per his 
request, before it was destroyed. I consider HSBC acted appropriately by giving feedback to 
the department responsible for this mistake. I have however considered the impact this has 
had on Mr M. 
The documents cant now be recovered by HSBC. That said, it seems Mr M has been 
provided with the policy details  including the policy number, sum assured and premium 
costs. I understand however Mr M says hes never seen the original policy documentation 
and so he hasnt had the chance to read the small print. This documentation is typically 
provided to the life assured (or applicant) at the point of sale and so, while I cant be sure, I 
wouldve expected Mr M to have received a copy of this at the time. Im aware Mr M has had 
difficulties obtaining information from the insurer (which I cant hold HSBC responsible for) 
but, if he requires anything more such as the policy terms, then he should contact them 
further about this. The insurer should be able to provide policy documentation if it is still 
available to them. 
Ive considered whether the £150 compensation offered by HSBC is fair. At which point, I 
think I should clarify that the role of our service isnt to punish firms, but we can award 
compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused by a firms error. In this case, I 
think Mr M was clearly inconvenienced by what happened as he had to contact HSBC on 
multiple occasions about the matter. I also think it wouldve been alarming for him to find out 
the policy documents were destroyed even though hed requested them to be sent to him. 
Taking this into consideration, I think £150 compensation is a reasonable amount to 
recognise this and what Id expect to see in similar cases. I therefore wont be increasing it 
further. If Mr M hasnt yet received the £150 compensation then he should contact HSBC 
directly to arrange payment. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr M is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think 
HSBC should do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman