DRN-2393358
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC returned a cheque unpaid which she had 
deposited into her account
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
I appreciate Miss Ts concerns that previously she had deposited cheques which 
have been processed despite the name on the cheque not matching the name on the 
account. However, the cheque Miss T deposited in June 2019 (which was 
processed) had been deposited over the counter to a cashier. 
I have reviewed the evidence Lloyds has provided along with a statement from the 
branch manager. And while the name on the cheque did differ to the name on the 
account, as it was manually processed by a cashier, the cashier had the opportunity 
to verify Miss T.
The cheque which was deposited on 25 September 2019 was done so via an 
Immediate Deposit Machine rather than a cashier. If the cheque had been deposited 
via a cashier there may have been an opportunity for them to carry out the necessary 
checks in order for the cheque to be processed.
Lloyds have explained that they use a third party to assist with its cheque clearing 
process. When the third party identified that the name on the cheque didnt match the 
name on the account, it contacted the third party bank who stopped the cheque being 
processed. And I dont think this was unreasonable as it had concerns that the 
names did not match.
However, despite the events that took place after the cheque was deposited, the 
reverse of the cheque says For deposit only into the account of named payee, and 
on the front of the cheque it says Account Payee. I have also reviewed Lloyds 
website and with that in mind I am satisfied Miss T has a responsibility to ensure he 
name on the cheque matched the name registered on her account. This information 
wouldve been available to her
As such, I cant say Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably. So I wont be asking it to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman