DRN-3118944
The complaint
Miss W complains about the advice she received from Temple Finance Limited (Temple) 
when she called to make a claim for her broken TV.
What happened
Miss W bought a TV on a hire purchase agreement with Temple in November 2019. Within 
30 days of the TV being delivered, it was faulty, so a new one was sent to her. The new TV 
was delivered in January 2020.
In June 2021, Miss W had another issue with her TV. She called Temple who advised her 
she needed to contact the manufacturer.
Miss W contacted the manufacturer, but they couldnt help her. So, she called Temple back 
to see if it could help her. Temple said it wasnt able to help because the warranty expired in 
January 2021. It apologised for telling Miss W to go to the manufacturer as this wasnt 
needed. It offered Miss W £25 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Miss W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She said Temple was incorrect in telling Miss W to go and speak to 
the manufacturer, but thought the £25 compensation it had offered was fair.
Miss W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
When Miss W called in June 2021 to report the problem with her TV, the warranty had 
expired  in January 2021. So, Temple were never going to be able to assist her with her 
TV. But she should have been told this on that call. She wasnt, and thats a clear error on 
Temples behalf.
The impact of Miss W not being told Temple couldnt assist earlier meant that she was 
incorrectly told to contact the manufacturer. That call, and the call back to Temple were 
unnecessary and avoidable. But they both happened the same day and the incorrect 
information was rectified quickly. Im satisfied the £25 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman