DRN-3818980
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money didnt raise a 
chargeback for him. He would like Virgin Money to refund the cost of the service he didnt 
receive.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
Its unfortunate that Virgin Money hasnt responded to our investigators view. As the 
view was issued some months ago, the deadline for a response has passed and we 
have unsuccessfully chased a response I think its only fair to Mr C that I go ahead 
with my final decision on his complaint.
The information provided by Virgin Money seems to mainly relate to customer service 
issues Mr C encountered when he complained. Virgin Money credited his account 
with £60 for the  distress and inconvenience caused and refunded a £12 charge 
which seems reasonable to me.
In terms of Mr Cs request for a refund Virgin said it never received back a dispute 
form it sent to Mr C. However, Mr C has evidenced an email he sent to Virgin Money 
providing the necessary details. In one of its final response letters Virgin Money said  
it would reopen its investigation but I cant see that it did so. Or if it did that it 
informed Mr C of the outcome.
From the information I have seen I think Virgin Money had the necessary information 
to pursue a chargeback claim under the good and services not received code which I 
think stood a reasonable chance of success. As Virgin Money hasnt replied to our 
investigators view I have no further information for me to  conclude Mr Cs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld as our investigator recommended. I think its only fair  given Mr 
C did have grounds, in my view, for a chargeback claim  that the £880 cost of the 
service he didnt receive should be refunded with 8% simple interest from 19 January 
2022 (the date Virgin Money should have raised the chargeback) to the date of 
settlement with 8% simple interest added. I think its also reasonable to pay Mr C the 
additional £50 compensation our investigator recommended for the distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money should :-
If it has not already done so, refund Mr C the cost of the service he didnt receive 
(£880) adding 8% simple interest from 19 January 2022 to the date of settlement
Pay Mr C £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman