DRN-3829196
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain about how QIC Europe Ltd settled a claim on their motor 
insurance policy and disposed of their cars salvage. Mr R is a named driver on Mrs Rs 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs Rs car was involved in a collision and declared to be beyond economical repair and a 
Category N total loss. QIC made Mrs R an offer in settlement of her claim. But Mr R thought 
they couldnt replace the car for this amount. He repeatedly told QIC that they wanted to buy 
back the cars salvage and repair it. 
QIC initially said it would consider this. But it later said this wasnt allowed under the policys 
terms and conditions. QIC sent the car to auction and Mr R bought it back for more than its 
salvage value. He was unhappy with this and with QICs settlement. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
QICs settlement offer was within the range of valuations provided by the motor trade guides 
we use. So he thought it was fair and reasonable. 
He thought QIC should have allowed Mr R to retain the cars salvage. And it should pay him 
£150 compensation for providing him with incorrect information. But he didnt think it was 
responsible for the costs Mr R incurred when he decided to buy back the salvage at auction. 
Mr R replied providing evidence that he said showed the car had been undervalued. He also 
thought he wouldnt have incurred further costs but for QIC sending the car to auction before 
he had received its settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the accident circumstances and the troubles that Mr Rs family has 
suffered. I can understand that this has been a very difficult and stressful time for them. 
I can also understand that Mr R wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. Mrs Rs policy 
provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. QIC said this was £11,018. 
But Mr R said they couldnt find a like for like replacement for less than about £19,000. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. I can see that Mr R doesnt 
agree, but we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take 
into account regional variations. We also take all other available evidence into account, for 
example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought QICs offer was fair and reasonable, so Ive checked how he came 
to this conclusion. QIC said it had obtained valuations from two of the motor trade guides we 
use and offered Mr R the average of these. QIC provided evidence of the valuations it had 
found. And the Investigator checked two further guides for valuations of the car at the date of 
its loss. I can see that the correct make, model, age, mileage, condition and optional extras 
were entered. 
Mr R provided examples of similar cars sold for much higher prices. But I can see that these 
cars mostly have lower mileage and newer registration than Mrs Rs car. Also, we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
I can see that QICs valuation fell within the range of valuations provided by the four trade 
guides. And so Im satisfied that this was a reasonable offer as it was made correctly in 
keeping with our approach. I dont require QIC to increase this. 
Mr R said QIC disposed of the cars salvage without his consent and after he had said he 
wanted to retain it. Our approach is that when a car is written off and deemed a total loss 
under a motor insurance policy, as Mrs Rs car was, the insurer, in this case QIC, becomes 
the owner of the salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of the cars full market 
value. 
QICs policy states that it doesnt permit the consumer to retain the salvage in the case of 
total loss. But our stance is that if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we expect the 
insurer to allow this. The car is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the 
right to keep it if they wish to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is entitled to deduct 
from its settlement offer what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. 
Looking at the timeline of events, QIC paid Mrs R a sum that she accepted as an interim 
offer for the cars pre-loss value. But Im satisfied that this was the cars full market value. 
QIC sent the car to auction after it paid the settlement to Mrs R, even though she didnt cash 
the cheque for some months. 
However, I can see that when Mr R first notified the claim, he told QIC that he wanted to 
retain the salvage. But QIC didnt then make it clear that this wasnt provided by the policys 
terms and conditions, though it did so later on. Mr R handed over the car to QICs agents, 
but he thought this was for assessment, not for disposal. And so Im not satisfied that QIC 
treated Mr R fairly.
Im satisfied that Mr R should have been allowed to retain the cars salvage, despite what the 
policy said. I think QIC raised Mr Rs expectation and caused him frustration and stress 
when he later found the car up for auction.  
Our Investigator thought QIC should pay Mr R £150 compensation for this trouble and upset. 
I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for this level of 
impact. 
Mr R decided to buy back the car at auction and incurred further costs. But Im satisfied that 
this was his decision. And QIC had already settled the claim by paying Mrs R the cars full 
market value. So I cant hold QIC responsible for the extra costs Mr R incurred. 
Putting things right
I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mrs R £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to carry out the redress set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman