DRN-3064312
The complaint
Mr I complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly gave him 
loans which he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about the following loans provided by Mr Lender to Mr I:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 26/09/2018 15/02/2019 3 £200.00 £114.66
2 15/02/2019 30/08/2019 6 £500.00 £195.33
3 30/08/2019 Outstanding/sold 12 £1,000.00 £209.33
Mr I said that Mr Lender failed to carry out effective affordability assessments at the time of 
applying for the loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. Mr I disagreed with our adjudicator. The 
complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr I 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr I could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint. 
Mr Lender has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr I. It asked him for details 
of his income and normal expenditure. And Mr Lender carried out checks on Mr Is credit file.
Looking at each of the loans in turn, I agree with the adjudicator that on the basis of the 
information Mr I told Mr Lender about his income and outgoings and what Mr Lender had 
recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to give him 
loans 1 and 2. 
It was early in the lending relationship and given the repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Mr Is circumstances and his borrowing history at that time with Mr Lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr I for the amount of information 
that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first two 
loans. In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect Mr Lender to have asked to see bank 
statements. 
So even if these would have shown information about other outstanding credit, if that wasnt 
information that Mr I told Mr Lender about, then it wouldnt have known about it and I cant 
fairly say that Mr Lender shouldve known about it. So this is why Im not upholding Mr Is 
complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
Mr I gave Mr Lender a plausible reason for taking out loan 3 (he said it was to pay for home 
improvements) and Mr Lender considered its checks were proportionate. But I disagree. 
Looking at loan 3, I can see that this was a substantial loan amount and by far the largest 
amount Mr I had asked to borrow - five times the amount of loan 1. Based on what Mr I had 
told Mr Lender about his financial situation, Mr Lender understood that he had ample 
disposable income each month. So, given Mr Is apparent ongoing and increasing need for 
expensive credit I think Mr Lender should by now have realised that Mr Is borrowing history 
seemed to be at odds with what Mr I had told Mr Lender about his circumstances. Bearing in 
mind that he was signing up to repay this large and expensive loan over the next 12 months, 
I think Mr Lender ought to have gone further in its affordability checks and looked in more detail at Mr Is spending when he applied for this borrowing to make sure it properly 
understood his financial situation before agreeing this loan. 
So I cant fairly say that it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend loan 3 to 
Mr I. 
Ive looked at the information Mr I has provided to this Service to help me understand what 
Mr Lender is likely to have found out had it done proportionate checks before agreeing to 
provide this loan.  
Mr I has provided bank statements and, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give 
a reasonable picture of Mr Is finances at the time. And had Mr Lender looked in more depth 
at Mr Is finances I think it would have learnt that when he took out loan 3, Mr I already had 
at least four loans outstanding with other lenders who provided high cost credit. He was also 
making other repayments through a debt management company which suggested hed had 
some payment problems on other credit accounts. So I think, if Mr Lender had done a 
proportionate check before agreeing loan 3 it would likely have seen that he was already 
facing serious problems managing his money and realised that this loan wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for him.
I appreciate that Mr Lender carried out its own credit checks and I've noted the information it 
obtained. I've also taken into account that when assessing affordability, although its own 
credit checks showed that Mr I didnt have any other outstanding loans, it still took into 
account Mr Is declaration that he paid £141 towards other loans.
But this doesnt change my overall view. Ive also noted that during August 2019, Mr I paid 
more than £1,300 towards servicing debt  not including the monthly repayment to 
Mr Lender for loan 2. Bearing in mind that Mr Lender worked out that Mr I had around £975 
disposable income each month after allowing for him spending just £141 on other loans, it 
should have been clear that that his actual credit costs fully accounted for all his spare cash.  
To my mind, the information revealed by a proportionate check wouldve been sufficient for 
Mr Lender to have realised that it shouldnt have provided this loan. And for these reasons, 
as things stand, Im planning on upholding Mr Is complaint about loan 3.
I dont think Mr Lender acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr I any other way. So Im not 
planning on telling Mr Lender to pay any additional redress over and above what Ive set out 
below.
I consider that Mr Lenders offer to wipe out the loan balance outstanding when it sent its 
final response letter and remove any adverse information from Mr Is credit file was put 
forward in a genuine attempt to settle Mr Is complaint. But I think Mr Lender ought fairly and 
reasonably do more to put things right for Mr I. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr I has confirmed that he accepts what I've said in my provisional decision.
Mr Lender disagrees with me about upholding loan 3 and has sent me a detailed response. 
The main points mentioned are as follows:
in terms of proportionality, the loan of £1,000 was 5% of Mr I's annual income of 
£20,892
my comments about the loan being expensive are subjective  Mr I had all the 
information about the main loan costs when he signed up to the loan and he wanted to proceed 
the highest monthly repayment was £209.33 which was a £14 increase on the 
highest repayment of Mr Is previous loan, which had been repaid on time and with 
no difficulties
the interest rate on this loan was 0.45% - almost half of the daily interest cap outlined 
by the industry regulator for short term loans
it wasnt proportionate at that stage in Mr I's lending relationship to request the bank 
statements
Mr I demonstrated that his final loan was affordable for him as he repaid his monthly 
repayments on-time until his eighth instalment was due and the COVID-19 pandemic 
meant he was unable to work
it was likely that had COVID-19 not impacted Mr I this loan would have been repaid 
on time  like his previous two loans
Mr Lender has mentioned other decisions issued by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service which it says contradict what Ive said in this case 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Mr Lender that I've thought carefully about everything again 
before coming to my final decision. And whilst I have highlighted above what seem to me to 
be the main points of concern theyve raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account 
everything they have asked me to reconsider  including the detailed reasons Mr Lender 
provided in support of its view that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing 
loan 3.  
Mr Lender hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a 
bearing on the outcome. Given Mr Is particular financial situation and circumstances, I still 
think the loan term and the amount, as well as the fact this was his third loan in a row, meant 
that Mr Lender should have done more to check that it had a proper understanding of Mr Is 
finances before it agreed to lend to him and verify that it had correctly understood his 
situation. Had it done so, I think it would have realised that the loan wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable. 
I dont think that the fact alone that Mr I managed the repayments on time until the COVID-
19 pandemic struck meant that he was necessarily able to make those repayments in a way 
that was sustainable. 
I appreciate that Mr Lender takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr I, as Im satisfied it ought to have.Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr I may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr I in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, II not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr I would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So heres what Im planning to say Mr Lender needs to do:
As Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following: 
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 3 and treat any 
repayments made by Mr I as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B. If this results in Mr I having made overpayments then these should be paid back to 
Mr I with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. If there is still an outstanding balance owed in respect of loan 3 then the amounts 
calculated in "A" should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Mr I. 
And if there is still an outstanding balance, then Mr Lender should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr I.
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Is credit file for loan 3 once it is repaid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Is complaint about loan 3 and direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman