DRN-3688075
The complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC wont reimburse him for the money he lost when he fell 
victim to an authorised push payment (APP) safe account scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. Ill recap the key 
points and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In December 2021, Mr B lost his debit card and noticed some transactions on his account 
that he didnt make, which he reported to Metro. A couple of days later, Mr B received a text 
message, from what appeared to be Metro, asking if hed attempted a transaction. As Mr B 
hadnt attempted the transaction, he replied N to the message.
Shortly after this, Mr B received a call from somebody claiming to be from Metro, saying that 
his account had been compromised. The incoming call seemed to come from Metros 
genuine telephone number. The caller told Mr B that his accounts were at risk and he 
needed to move his money to a new account to protect it.
Mr B said that initially alarm bells were ringing. But hes said the caller was able to provide 
personal information about him, including his mothers maiden name, details of transactions 
on his account and his address, which he thought only his bank would know.
Mr B has said the call lasted for over an hour and a half. He added that, to begin with, the 
caller told him that they would start the new account set up process, but that he could go 
into a Metro branch to complete it. But that then the caller changed this, saying that trojans 
could get his money at any point, so he had to move it straight away.
Mr B was instructed to transfer funds from his Metro account to a friends account, to get the 
money out of the account straight away. The caller told Mr B from there it could then be sent, 
by his friend, to another of Mr Bs accounts and then onto his new Metro account. Believing 
everything to be genuine, Mr B went ahead and made four payments, totalling £9,800, to a 
friends account. A breakdown of the payments he made is listed below;
16 December 2021 £2,500
16 December 2021 £2,500
16 December 2021 £2,500
16 December 2021 £2,300
Mr Bs friend then sent the money back to him, via an account Mr B held with another 
provider, and from there the money was sent to the new account, that the caller had 
provided details for. But unknown to Mr B at the time, he had been speaking to a fraudster 
and had sent his money to an account they controlled. Mr B has said £9,700 was lost to the 
fraudster. 
Mr B realised hed been scammed when, after the payment had been sent to the account 
details provided by the fraudster, the line went dead and he lost contact. Mr B contacted 
Metro to report what had happened. Metro investigated Mr Bs fraud claim and considered its 
obligations to provide him with a refund. Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards 
Boards (LSB) Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this one in all but a 
limited number of circumstances.
Metro issued its final response on 7 January 2022, not upholding Mr Bs complaint. In 
summary it didnt think it was liable given the circumstances of what happened, this was 
because Mr B had sent the money to a friends account and so Metro said the payments 
were legitimate. It added that in this instance, it didnt think the payments fell under the CRM 
code.
Unhappy with Metros response, Mr B then brought his complaint to our service and one of 
our Investigators looked into things. It was our Investigators view that the complaint should 
be upheld. In summary our Investigator thought the payments were covered by the CRM 
code. She didnt think Metro had established that it shouldnt reimburse Mr B under the CRM 
code. Our investigator also thought Metro ought to have identified that the payments Mr B 
made were unusual and suspicious and, coupled with Mr B raising a fraud on his debit card 
just a couple of days before, Metro ought to have made further enquiries, before allowing the 
payments to be made. Our investigator recommended Metro should refund Mr B the money 
he lost, along with interest.
Metro didnt agree with our Investigators view. As an agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr B has 
fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
I note that Metro has argued that the CRM code doesnt apply, as Mr B had made the 
payments to a friend. But I dont agree, the funds that were ultimately lost to the fraudster 
belonged to him  they just passed through his friends account on the way to the fraudster. 
This is a tactic used by fraudsters to make it harder for banks to identify a scam risk, and to 
make it more difficult for banks to trace and recover their victims funds. I think that Metro, 
with its industry knowledge of fraud, ought to be aware of this.
In any event, the LSB has confirmed that the CRM Code includes cases, such as this one, 
where a victim was tricked into sending money to a fraudsters account via a family member 
or friends account and the funds are now lost.
Im satisfied that Mr Bs complaint falls within the scope of the CRM Code. With this in mind 
and having considered things carefully, Im satisfied that, adhering to the CRM Code, Metro 
should have refunded Mr B the money he lost. Im not persuaded any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of these payments. Ill explain why.
Did Metro present Mr B with an effective warning?The CRM Code requires a firm, where it identifies an APP scam risk in the payment journey, 
to take reasonable steps to provide the customer with effective warnings. This should 
include appropriate actions for customers to protect themselves from APP scams. The CRM 
Code requires firms to consider payments instructed against normal transactional data and 
customer behaviour.
Metro has acknowledged that it didnt provide Mr B with a warning during the payment 
journey. It said Mr Bs payments were sent to an existing beneficiary, that had been set up 
on his account in 2018, at which time effective warnings were not in place. It added that Mr B 
had also made payments to his friend prior to the payments that ultimately ended up with 
fraudsters.
I appreciate what the bank has said about the payment going to a known payee. But having 
looked at Mr Bs account statement, I can see that the payments made werent typical of 
how the account usually run. In the months leading up to the scam I can see that, more 
typically, the account was used for much lower value card purchases, direct debits, cash 
withdrawals and account to account transfers. The payments which ended up with the 
fraudster, were made in quick succession, immediately followed a large transfer into the 
account from Mr Bs savings account and cleared almost the entirety of the balance, which 
can point to fraudulent activity. So, I think there was enough going on here to fairly and 
reasonably have expected Metro to have provided Mr B with an effective warning, despite 
the payment destination. 
The bank acknowledges that it didnt provide Mr B with an effective warning, so Im not 
persuaded that it can rely on this exception to reimbursement.
Did Mr B make the payments with a reasonable basis for belief?
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr B had a reasonable basis for belief in this case;
- When Mr B received the call from the fraudster, he had already become aware that 
he had fallen victim to a fraud on his debit card and was therefore already on alert 
that his details were compromised. I can understand why, in the moment, this led 
Mr B to be more susceptible to believing his accounts could be at risk.
- Mr B checked the phone number he was being called from while on the phone to the 
fraudster and saw it was a genuine Metro number. I think its important not to 
underestimate the impact this would have had on Mr Bs decision making going 
forwards, given this reassurance he was genuinely speaking to his bank. Mr B wasnt 
advised throughout this scam that fraudsters can spoof genuine phone numbers.
- The fraudsters were able to provide a number of pieces of personal information to 
Mr B, that I think he fairly and reasonably only thought would have been known to his 
bank. Including his memorable password and details of transactions that had taken 
place on his account.
- Ive considered, in the circumstances of this case, the fact the fraudster has created 
an environment where Mr B thought he had to act quickly to protect his accounts 
from an attack. With the benefit of hindsight and the removal of the pressured 
environment, its easier to identify elements where Mr B may have had an opportunity 
to ask further questions. But the convincing nature of these scams can often have a 
negative effect on a persons thought process and make them take steps that, in the 
cold light of day, they might not otherwise take.Considering everything, the fraud was sophisticated and overall, Im not persuaded that 
Metro has shown Mr B didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making genuine 
payments, or that he ignored an effective warning. I therefore consider Metro should provide 
a full refund to Mr B of his losses. 
Could Metro have done anything else to prevent the scam? 
For reasons explained earlier, I think the payments Mr B was making were unusual and 
suspicious, when compared to how he typically ran his account. This, coupled with Mr B 
having contacted Metro shortly before regarding another fraud matter, leads me to conclude 
that there was enough going on that Metro ought to have had concerns that Mr B may have 
been at risk of financial harm. Considering this, I think it ought to have intervened at the point 
Mr B transferred nearly £10,000 from his savings account and made the first payment, for 
£2,500.
Had Metro intervened at this point, as I think it ought to have done, I think it would have 
made the difference and I think the fraud would have come to light. I say this as Mr B hadnt 
been coached by the fraudster on what to say if his bank had of intervened, as can often be 
the case with scams, so I think he would have answered any questions Metro put to him 
freely. And given the concerns Mr B has said he had himself, when he very first received the 
call, I think the scam would have quickly come to light and the loss would have been 
prevented.
For clarity, my findings that a further intervention from Metro is more likely than not to have 
prevented the payments being made, has a limited impact on the outcome of this complaint, 
given Ive decided Mr B shouldve been reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
The impact relates to the interest payable only.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, Metro Bank PLC should now;
- Refund Mr B the money he lost, being £9,700.
- Pay interest on this amount, at the savings account rate, from the date the payments 
were made, to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman