DRN-1141025
The complaint
Ms B complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside her credit card.
What happened
Ms B applied for a credit card in June 2002. Alongside the card, Ms B was sold PPI. The PPI 
would help repay the credit card if Ms B lost her job or was off work sick. The cost of the 
policy was charged to the credit card, so Ms B would repay this extra cost with interest in line 
with the terms and conditions of the card.
Ms B thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. Ms B didn't 
agree. The complaint has now been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms B's case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Ms B knew had a choice to buy the PPI. Ms B has said that at 
no point was it clear to her that the policy was optional. I've thought about what Ms B has 
said alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement. It appears from the application 
that Ms B applied for the card by post.
I see that to apply for PPI Ms B had to complete a section of the application beneath the 
heading "Cover your card payments". This gives some details of the cover, and says "Simply 
tick the box below if you want this cover." Underneath this is a box, labelled "Yes, I want you 
to arrange Credit Card Repayments Cover to protect my repayments". This box is ticked. Ms 
B has also signed below this.
Bank of Scotland also offered another add on product called "Card Care". Ms B didn't apply 
for this product - it has been crossed out and the letters "N/A" written across it.
Given the wording of the form, and the fact that Ms B applied for one product and not others, 
I think Ms B knew she had a choice to buy the PPI and chose to buy it.
Bank of Scotland didn't recommend the PPI. So it didn't have to check if it was right for 
Ms B. But it did have to give Ms B the information she'd need to work out for herself if she 
wanted it.It's possible that the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms B wasn't as clear as it could have 
been. But Ms B chose to buy the PPI - so it seems she wanted this type of cover. She wasn't 
affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. Though Ms B got some sick pay 
from her employer, I note that this policy would repay 10% of the outstanding balance of her 
credit card for up to a year if she'd been off work sick - which is longer than she'd get full pay 
from her employer if she was off work sick. The policy also covered her if she lost her job. So 
I don't think better information would have affected her decision to buy the policy.
I've thought about everything else Ms B has said. But these points don't change my decision.
This means I don't think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland doesn't need to refund 
everything Ms B paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Ms B back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I don't think it needs to do anything more. I understand Bank of 
Scotland has already paid this to Ms B.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman