DRN-3859173
The complaint
Miss G complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) handling of her 
claim, under her motor insurance policy, following an accident when driving.
What happened
Miss G was involved in a car accident in December 2020. She contacted Admiral and it 
initially told her the car was a total loss. Payments were made to her finance company and a 
residual payment to her based on the market valuation of the car. It was subsequently 
decided that the car could be repaired. Miss G describes how this caused problems with her 
finance company chasing her for payments. 
Miss G says that after the car was repaired and returned to her, it developed a further issue 
with overheating. Admiral didnt initially think this issue was related to the accident damage 
but later changed its mind. It took a number of months for Miss Gs car to be referred to the 
main dealer for further assessment and repairs. 
Miss G says she has been caused a great deal of inconvenience and distress because of 
poor communication, poor claim handling and Admirals failure to repair her car properly over 
an extended period. 
In its complaint response Admiral acknowledged it had provided a poor standard of service. 
It paid Miss G £640.71 in relation to finance payments. It says this is because it felt it was 
partly responsible for the financial hardship, she experienced due to incorrectly identifying 
her car as a total loss. Admiral also paid £30 compensation for unnecessary calls Miss G 
had to make during her claim. And it paid £725 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she had experienced. 
Miss G didnt think this compensation was enough to acknowledge the issues she had 
experienced over a period of around 12 months. So, she referred her complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator upheld her complaint. He thought the standard of service and 
communication had been poor at times and that Miss G had been caused inconvenience 
and distress over a significant period. He says a total compensation payment for £800 was 
fairer in these circumstances. 
Admiral accepted this outcome. Miss G didnt and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint. I wont be adding to the 
compensation our investigator proposed. I understand this will come as a disappointment to 
Miss G, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Im sorry that Miss G has experienced problems with her car being repaired. Its clear that 
issues have continued over a long period. This must have been upsetting for her. 
My remit here is to consider the complaint issues Miss G raised to Admiral prior to its 
November 2021 response. I understand she has ongoing concerns that are being dealt with 
as a separate complaint. I cant consider these issues here. 
I can see that when Miss Gs car was first assessed following her accident in December 
2020, Admiral concluded it was a total loss. I understand this was based on photos of the 
damage. It valued the car based on what it thought the market value was at the time of the 
loss. Most of the money was paid to the finance company Miss G had an arrangement with. 
With a small amount left over that was paid directly to her. 
From the records, Miss G contacted Admiral on several occasions to discuss retaining the 
car. There is some reference in the notes to this potentially causing complications as the 
payment had already been provided to the finance company. The notes show internal 
communications about whether the car could actually be repairable as opposed to a total 
loss. I can see that on 16 January 2021 it was explained to Miss G that her car wasnt a total 
loss. This meant the payments Admiral had made to the finance company and Miss G had to 
be recovered. The notes show arrangements would be made to provide a hire car. 
I acknowledge Miss Gs comments that trying to sort this issue out caused her to have panic 
attacks and was very distressing. She says the finance company chased her for payments, 
which caused her financial difficulty. She didnt think she should pay all the monthly 
payments because at the time Admiral had confirmed her car was a total loss. I can see that 
Miss G spent a lot of time in contact with the garage, Admiral, and her finance company 
when dealing with the matter. 
Ive read all the records provided by Admiral. Its clear that it didnt consider it was 
responsible for Miss Gs finance payments. It says if the vehicle had initially been considered 
repairable, she would have had to pay this amount anyway. 
Ive thought about whether it was fair for Miss G to have to pay her car finance instalments 
during this period. Admiral did initially treat her car as a total loss. This wasnt the correct 
position, which was identified when the car was inspected. So, it was at fault that the total 
loss decision was taken, which resulted in the settlement payment. This did cause confusion 
and I agree with its view that it should accept part of the blame that Miss G struggled to 
afford the backdated payments subsequently demanded by her finance company. 
That said, the finance agreement was Miss Gs responsibility. As the car wasnt a total loss, 
she is liable to make the payments as she would have if this hadnt happened. So, I dont 
think Admiral was responsible to pay the outstanding finance amounts. But I do think it acted 
fairly by paying Miss G £640.71 to acknowledge its part in the problems she experienced. 
So, I wont ask it to do any more in relation to this point. 
Miss G has described that following the accident repairs carried out by Admirals repairer, 
her car has been overheating. This has meant having to stop driving to allow the car to cool 
down. 
From the records Admirals repairer didnt initially think that the problem was related to the 
accident. It says the issue is with the thermostat, which is located within the engine. The 
damage to Miss Gs car was to the front bumper and radiator. It didnt think the thermostat had been damaged because of the collision and says this component can fail at any time. 
This position subsequently changed when an independent assessor confirmed the 
thermostat issue was related to the repairs Admirals garage had completed. 
Admiral agreed that Miss Gs car would be sent to the main dealer for investigation and for 
repairs to be carried out. I note Miss Gs comments that this didnt take place for around 
eight months after the initial accident repairs were completed. I can see from the records that 
the main dealer required authorisation from Admiral to continue with its investigations and 
repairs. It appears that there were delays in Admiral responding to these requests. This 
caused a delay of around three weeks with the main dealer. 
I note Miss G says she was without a courtesy car because of Admiral delaying authorisation 
to the main dealer. This meant she incurred travel costs as a result. From what Ive read 
there was no reasonable explanation for the delay. Admiral says it will reimburse the 
reasonable travel costs demonstrated by Miss G. I think Admiral is responsible for the delay 
and the impact this had on Miss G being without transport. So, I think its fair that it pays the 
costs she incurred. 
Ive thought about the ongoing issues Miss G experienced as a result of her car overheating. 
I can understand that this must have been upsetting and frustrating for her. I acknowledge 
the impact she says this had on her mental health. Although it was initially disputed that this 
fault was related to the accident damage, Admiral now accepts the thermostat issue was 
related to the repairs its garage carried out. In these circumstances I think its reasonable 
that it should compensate Miss G for the upset she experienced because of this ongoing 
issue. 
Admiral acknowledges that its standard of service and communication has been lacking 
throughout the handling of Miss Gs claim. I think this is shown in the records provided and 
from the copy correspondence I have read. It was fair for Admiral to pay £30 to acknowledge 
the cost of additional calls Miss G had to make to it and to the other parties involved. I also 
think it was fair that it paid compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. But I agree with 
our investigator that a total payment of £800 is reasonable in these circumstances. This is in 
line with our services approach to compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Miss G has experienced further issues with her car. As discussed this is being dealt with as 
a separate complaint. So, I wont be commenting on these points here. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think Admiral treated Miss G fairly because of the 
delays, poor communication, the lack of a hire car and confusion caused by the initial total 
loss decision. I think it was reasonable that it paid £640.71 towards her finance payments, 
and in the compensation it provided. But I think its should increase the total compensation 
payment to £800 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
pay Miss G an additional compensation amount of £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman