DRN-2739280
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1990 Mr and Mrs T bought a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a mortgage.
Lloyds cant confirm where the sale took place, Mr and Mrs T recall it was in a branch. The
policy was in Mr Ts sole name and gave him protection against accident, sickness and
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the evidence is limited and incomplete so my decision is based on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence we do 
have and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. As an independent and 
impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit 
for us to find in favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T say they werent aware they had PPI, they didnt knowingly decide to take it 
out. Lloyds says it hasnt identified any failings during the sale.
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Lloyds isnt able to provide documents to 
show how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs T. But the sale was over 30 years ago so 
this isnt surprising or unreasonable. Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs T 
said and I dont doubt these are their honest recollections. But I also have to take into 
account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall. Without 
stronger evidence to show Lloyds didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs 
T didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Mr and Mrs T dont recall that Lloyds recommended the PPI to them. But the bank has said
we can assume a recommendation was made. This is to Mr and Mrs Ts benefit as it means
the bank had more obligations to meet during the sales process. It means they had to check
if the PPI was right for Mr T. I think it seems to have been suitable based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
Mr T was entitled to less than three months sick pay and the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident and 
sickness claim. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. They had no savings 
but said Mrs T could have got a job if needed. Finding employment wasnt guaranteed 
though and the timing wouldnt have been within their control so its not suitable alternative 
protection.
Mr and Mrs T were borrowing a large sum of money over a long period secured on their 
home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments and their level of 
other means, I think the cover wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs T if Mr T was sick, had 
an accident or lost his job.
Mr and Mrs T say they were given no information about the PPI. I accept its possible Lloyds 
didnt give Mr and Mrs T all the information they needed before they decided to buy PPI. I 
dont know it made the cost clear, but the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it 
offered. Mr and Mrs T say they would not have agreed to any unnecessary costs, but I 
havent seen any evidence the cover was unaffordable. I dont know that Lloyds pointed out 
the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr T doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of those things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical 
conditions). So I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs T have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
I note Mr and Mrs T say they would have used the policy on two occasions had they known 
they had it. I cant know why they didnt use the cover, but they could contact the insurer to 
find out if its possible to make retrospective claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman