DRN-1151255
 
The complaint
Miss P complains that The Mortgage Zone Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
requiring her to pay a fee of £350 following a remortgage. She wants to only pay half. Miss P 
is also unhappy about the time taken to complete the remortgage.
What happened
Miss P owned a property jointly with her ex-partner and wanted to buy out his interest. She 
used Mortgage Zone as her broker and it advised her about her options to remortgage to 
raise enough to buy out her ex partner. It recommended a product, and said that apart from 
the name change fee, the only other fee would be its fee of £475. This was set out in the 
mortgage documents sent to Miss P.
Miss P complained as she said that she understood Mortgage Zone's fee would be paid out 
of the mortgage proceeds and the cost shared with her ex partner from her discussions with 
Mortgage Zone. It said it was made clear to Miss P the fees she'd have to pay, and she 
didn't ask for the fees to be added to the mortgage balance (which would've cost Miss P 
money in interest paid to the lender).
Miss P complained to us. The investigator's view was that Mortgage Zone told Miss P in 
writing about its fees and she signed an agreement which confirmed she would pay £475; 
£125 at first and another £350 once the mortgage offer was received. Miss P paid £125 and 
the mortgage documents also confirmed the fees due to Mortgage Zone. The investigator 
said that the evidence didn't support Miss P's position, and she'd been told in writing that she 
would need to pay the full fees, not share the cost with her ex partner (and it was relevant 
that only Miss P was advised by Mortgage Zone and the new mortgage was only in her 
name). There was nothing in writing about adding the fee to the loan either in her view.
Miss P disagreed. She said that she was told the fee was paid at the end and had sent 
emails confirming this, but she also accepted that she was told it was up to her to deal with 
her ex partner on the subject of fees, which didn't make sense if the fee was coming out of 
the mortgage proceeds. Miss P also raised new issues not brought to this service.
The investigator said that the emails showed Mortgage Zone told Miss P that she was liable 
for its fee, and commented that as her ex partner wasn't being advised, he wasn't liable. She 
also dealt with the new issues raised by Miss P. Miss P still disagreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm going to focus on the core of the 
complaint brought to both Mortgage Zone and this service, which is about the fee. I would 
comment that the broker isn't responsible for the actions of solicitors (acting for both the 
lender and Miss P), and I can see there were issues outside of its control which affected the 
timing. And the new issues raised by Miss P have to be brought formally to Mortgage Zone by her, and then brought to this service, so I can't deal with those points today, though I note 
that the investigator has explained why in her view Mortgage Zone wasn't at fault there 
either.
The purpose of the broker's fee is to cover the costs of advising and assisting a customer 
with their mortgage application. Miss P's ex partner never instructed Mortgage Zone to assist 
him; it was assisting Miss P only and the new mortgage was to be in her sole name alone. 
The documents given to Miss P at the time, including the mortgage documents and the fee 
agreement, confirms all of this and that she alone was responsible for the £475 fee. It's fair 
and reasonable for Mortgage Zone to expect Miss P to question this before signing the fee 
agreement and paying £125 why the documents said something different to what she now 
says she believed to be the case.
I wasn't present at the initial meeting and I have to make my decision on the basis of what's 
more likely than not to have happened, after considering all the evidence. I'm not persuaded 
that Mortgage Zone agreed that Miss P and her ex partner (who it wasn't advising) could 
split its fee, or that it should come out of the mortgage monies. Miss P herself in emails said 
that the fee was separate to the mortgage money and sent this service emails where she 
was told she alone was responsible for the fee (though it was open to her to agree with her 
ex partner that he would contribute to giving Miss P some money). She's right that these 
emails don't make sense if her version of events was correct - they do make sense if Miss P 
was to pay the fee at the end of the process as outlined to her in writing by Mortgage Zone. I 
think it's fair and reasonable for Mortgage Zone to expect to be paid its outstanding fee of 
£350 by Miss P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 
22 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman