DRN-2634087
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc placed a block on his account and he suffered a 
poor customer experience for weeks as a result of this.
What happened
Mr W made a payment from his Santander account on 5 December 2019 to a foreign 
exchange company to help a member of his family pay for costs associated with a property 
abroad. He says he found out a couple of hours later that this payment had been blocked by 
Santander so he contacted them about this.
Mr W says he was told to visit his local Santander branch to discuss this. Mr W visited the 
branch with identification. He was connected to an agent from their fraud department as 
Santander were concerned that Mr W may be a victim of a scam. When Mr W informed the 
agent what the payment was for he said he was upset that the agent questioned what Mr W 
was getting out of helping his family member pay towards the overseas property. Mr W said 
the agent asked for proof of the overseas property so Mr W had to leave the branch, get the 
documents and then travel back to the branch but Mr W says Santander still didnt lift the 
block when they photocopied his documents.
Mr W says he contacted Santander nearly every day up until 22 December 2019. He says 
that from 5 December 2019 to 24 December 2019 and also on 28 December 2019 there was 
a block on his debit card restricting him from accessing his money at the worst time of year 
and added that this experience ruined his Christmas. The block was removed on 24 
December 2019 but Mr W says another block was placed on his card 28 December 2019. 
This block was removed on the same day.
Mr W complained to Santander when the account restrictions had been put in force and he 
followed up with further complaints while his account was restricted. He said nobody at 
Santander had looked at the information he sent them for weeks and it showed contempt for 
him as a customer. 
Initially Santander did not uphold Mr Ws complaint as it related to the initial account 
restrictions. Santander explained why they needed to have controls in place to protect 
customers from fraud. Santander then upheld Mr Ws complaint regarding the initial account 
restrictions from 5 December - 24 December 2019. They apologised for the delay and that 
they didnt try to contact him until 18 December 2019, which they said was an unacceptable 
time to wait. Santander also said that feedback had been given to the manager of the team 
which was dealing with Mr Ws case. In addition, Santander said they didnt believe there 
were any errors in applying the restrictions to Mr Ws account initially but they acknowledged 
their handling of the matter after this point was far from satisfactory and so they credited Mr 
Ws account with £200. They said the block on his card on 28 December was applied 
correctly and was removed later that day.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service as he felt that the compensation awarded didnt 
reflect the impact that Santanders actions had on him over the festive period. He also had 
requested a data subject access request from Santander. When he received this information 
he said the notes a call agent input on Santanders system were not accurate.
As part of the investigation of Mr Ws complaint, our investigator discovered that the 
restrictions placed on Mr Ws account were for two separate incidents  the first was for the 
period of 5 December 2019  24 December 2019 and the second related to a block on his 
card on 28 December 2019 when Mr W attempted to make a purchase. Mr W contacted 
Santander on 28 December 2019 when his card was blocked and verified he was the 
cardholder who attempted to make the purchase. The block was removed on the same day.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. The investigator said that he felt the £200 
which Santander paid Mr W was fair. He said this because while looking at Mr Ws 
transactions, there were no limitations to the card itself and Mr W had been able to use his 
card between 5 December and 24 December 2019 so while it wouldve been frustrating for 
some account restrictions to be in place during this time he felt that £200 should reflect the 
impact this had on Mr W. 
Our investigator acknowledged that the 28 December 2019 incident was a separate issue 
and found that Santander had made no error here and the block on his card was removed 
on the same day Mr W contacted Santander. He added that although Mr W thought there 
was deliberate action to block his account and delay the removal of restrictions, hed seen 
no evidence of this from either party. Mr W asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint 
as he said Santander shouldve restored full access to his account when he provided his 
identification and later the documents relating to the overseas property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made a number of points to both Santander and this service and Ive considered, 
listened to and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a 
quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here. As our investigator explained to Mr W, Ill just be looking at the events 
that took place between 5 December  24 December 2019 and on 28 December 2019. Our 
investigator also explained to Mr W that these were two separate events which happened. 
So Ive looked at these separately.  
First, Ive looked at the period 5 December  24 December 2019. I can understand why Mr 
W would be concerned if a payment he thought he made on 5 December had actually been 
blocked by Santander. 
Santander have said they blocked this payment because they thought Mr W may have been 
a victim of a scam. So I would expect Santander to have steps in place to verify that Mr W 
was aware of potential scams and the payment was genuine. Santander asked Mr W to visit 
the branch to discuss this with him. As Mr W provided Santander with documentation and 
identification, I would expect that Santander would need time to look over what they 
requested as his conversations were with a different department than the branch staff he 
initially spoke to.
But I would expect Santander to resolve this issue in a timely manner. Santander have 
already said that the time they took to resolve this issue was far from satisfactory. So as all 
parties agree on this point, I need to see what impact this had on Mr W. While it would be no 
doubt frustrating that this issue took weeks to resolve, Im not persuaded that it had a 
significant impact on how Mr W used his account, even in the run up to Christmas and Ill explain why.
I say this as Mr Ws card wasnt blocked during the timeframe his account had restrictions 
imposed. His transactions show that he used the card multiple times while the account 
restrictions were in place. So this wouldnt impact him if he wanted to purchase Christmas 
presents or other items. He also transferred into his account two large payments during the 
time his account was restricted, one on 12 December 2019 and one on 17 December 2019. 
So, as our investigator had explained to Mr W, Im also persuaded that this shows that the 
impact Mr W experienced as a result of the delay in Santander removing the restrictions on 
his account hadnt ultimately resulted in the day to day use of the account being restricted. 
Santander did apologise for the delay in the account restrictions being lifted and credited 
£200 for the impact this had on Mr W and I do think this is fair in the circumstances for the 
reasons Ive already given.
Ive noted the strength of feeling Mr W has regarding some of the notes on the system 
werent an accurate reflection of the conversation he had and that he felt Santander had 
deliberately delayed the account restrictions being lifted. But looking at the information 
provided by both parties Im not persuaded that Santander did deliberately delay the lifting of 
the account restrictions. Im also not persuaded that the notes Santander input on the 
system caused a delay as they needed to look at the documentation he sent them. So Im 
persuaded that Santander not looking at the documentation he provided was the cause of 
the delay as opposed to the specific notes which were input on the system. Im satisfied that 
the delay in lifting the account restrictions wouldve still happened regardless of if different 
notes were input on the system. And so Im satisfied the £200 which was paid to Mr W 
reflects the impact of what happened here.
Ive looked at the incident on 28 December 2019. Here, Mr W attempted to make a 
purchase. But, Santanders automated systems blocked Mr Ws card as there was doubt that 
Mr W had genuinely attempted the purchase. As Mr W contacted Santander to confirm that it 
actually was him attempting to make the payment then Santander lifted the block on his card 
on the same day. While I can understand how Mr W may believe that this was linked to the 
previous issue, Im satisfied it was a completely separate incident. Im persuaded that 
Santanders systems worked as they should here and when Mr W contacted them and 
confirmed he was attempting to make the purchase then the block on the card was removed 
on the same day. Ive seen no evidence of a Santander error in this incident or that they 
have treated Mr W unfairly here and so it follows that I wont be asking Santander to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021. 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman