DRN-3271274
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to refund several transactions made
from his account that he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr H has said that whilst he was on holiday, he was a victim of a sim swap fraud on his
phone. Once he regained control of his phone, he noticed several transactions had been
made from his account that he didnt recognise and notified BoS about them. The
transactions were made using Mr Hs debit card details with online merchants.
Mr H contacted the merchants, including one retailer that was based in a different country
who confirmed that Mr Hs card had been used for a click and collect purchase. The other
transactions were to an online business Ill refer to as F. Mr H also reported these
transactions to the police and Action Fraud.
BoS investigated the transactions and declined to refund them. They told Mr H that the
Internet Protocol (IP) address information for the disputed transactions matched his normal
activity. They also said that details BoS hold for Mr H matched some of the same details for
the disputed transactions.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the services.
Mr H was unhappy with how BoS had handled his situation and brought a complaint to our
service. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked BoS for their documents
and evidence that backed up their refusal to refund Mr H. Unfortunately, due to delays these
werent sent, and our investigator issued his outcome based on the information he had. Mr
Hs complaint was upheld and BoS then sent us their evidence.
Because BoS didnt reply to the investigators outcome, its been passed to me for a
decision. I issued a provisional decision where I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the investigator reviewed Mr Hs complaint, he didnt have the benefit of the banks
records which we would usually review, together with the complaining partys submission.
But BoS has now provided these records and I have considered them  as I have to so I can
reach an impartial decision on whats fair and reasonable here. Ive no doubt that Mr H was
expecting a different response than this provisional decision, but having examined the
records from BoS, Im currently of the opinion that I cant uphold this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that BoS can hold Mr H liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, BoS have supplied evidence that
shows the disputed transactions were made using the correct card details belonging to Mr H
and Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transactions were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which BoS and Mr H agreed to operate the account to allow
BoS to make payments on Mr Hs behalf. For example, BoSs terms and conditions set out
that if a payment is arranged through the use of the card details to confirm the payment, then
BoS accept that the instruction to make the payment came the account holder or someone
authorised to use the card. Because these transactions were made using the correct card
details - Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed transactions were authorised.
But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for BoS to hold Mr H responsible,
for example if the card details were used without his permission.
Mr H has provided evidence that his phone was subject to a sim swap, which means
someone took control of his phone for a period of time before he regained control over it. Mr
H thinks this was part of the reason for the disputed transactions. My understanding of sim
swap fraud is that an unknown third party takes control of the phone number, rather than
necessarily acquiring the data that was on the original device. The audit data related to
these transactions shows that the debit card details, including the three-digit security number
were correctly entered. The click and collect transactions also used Mr Hs address.
So, even if I accept that a sim swap happened here, I cant see how the information from Mr
Hs debit card was available to the third party who took control of his phone number. If
someone gained access to his phone number with the intent of defrauding Mr H - they could
have, for example, intercepted security texts that are used to authorise payments. But, in
order to actually instigate the payments themselves  they would have needed the debit card
details in the first place.
Mr H says that these details werent kept on his phone and that his banking apps on the
phone were all protected using security features that were unique to him and that only he
knew. With that in mind, there is no clear answer as to how someone unknown to Mr H was
able to get his debit card details in order to make these payments. With this in mind, I think it
unlikely that it was the sim swap that was responsible for obtaining Mr Hs debit card
details.
I recognise that Mr H followed up on the discovery of these transactions by contacting the
merchants and notifying the authorities. Its also apparent that the click and collect
transactions were picked up in a different location to where Mr H was, so I dont think it was
him who physically collected the packages.
Mr H told us that hed identified the second merchant  F and I asked for further enquiries to
be made. F are an online merchant who deal in crypto currency and they were unable to
provide details about the account the funds went to due to data protection concerns. They
did say they would liaise with any police investigation into Mr Hs complaint. Businesses
such as this arent compelled to reveal information to us, but if they hold information that
links the person complaining (Mr H) to their records, its not unusual for them to reveal that to
us, which in this case F didnt. Although I havent seen this information, I think it likely that
because F wouldnt reveal anything about the account the money went to, its unlikely to be
in Mr Hs name.
BoS were unable to provide the IP address evidence that they relied on to deny Mr H a
refund. So, Ive thought about what that means in the wider context of Mr Hs complaint. BoStold Mr H that their data showed a matching IP address. Ive taken that to mean they had
information that Mr Hs usual internet activity including the IP address data was matched
when these disputed transactions took place. Ive not had chance to examine it, but I dont
think it makes a significant difference here because the principle issue for me is that theres
currently no explanation of how the debit card details were obtained, rather than the location
the payments were made from.
There are several factors here which point to Mr H being the victim of a crime, but the issue
for me to decide is if its more likely than not that Mr H authorised the transactions. Because
theres currently no evidence of how the unknown third party could have obtained the full
debit card details, including the three-digit security number, Im currently minded to think its
reasonable for BoS to hold Mr H liable for them.
I invited Mr H and BoS to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. BoS didnt respond and Mr H repeated his case 
that the sim-swap was evidence that he hadnt authorised the transactions. Specifically, he 
said:
I do wish to put very clearly on record that the loss of £2,500 is as a result of an 
unauthorised transaction. I was not expecting this money to leave my account as it was 
actioned by the scammer who was able to do this as a result of this sim swap fraud.
The FCA state that unauthorised transactions have to be refunded by the bank unless one of 
these apply:
 
1. If it was more than 13 months ago - doesn't apply
2. If the bank can categorically prove that the customer did authorise the payment - again, 
doesn't apply as the scammers did this and I have had confirmation and therefore proof from 
the phone company that this was a sim swap fraud.
3. If the bank believes a customer acted with gross negligence - I can't believe that being a 
victim of a scam can in any way constitute gross negligence on their behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H set out three points, two of which he himself ruled out, and set out his thoughts on the 
issue of authorisation in point number two.
Mr H argued that the phone companies confirmation of the sim-swap is evidence that he 
didnt authorise the transaction. I set out my thinking about this in my provisional decision 
and for the avoidance of doubt, while I accept that Mr H was the victim of some unusual 
activity related to his phone, that in itself isnt evidence that an unknown third party was able 
to obtain the card details needed to carry out these transactions. 
Thats the critical issue here, because without those card details, the transactions couldnt 
have taken place. I accept that someone would be able to gain access to Mr Hs phone, but 
my understanding of this fraud is that it doesnt transfer data from the phone itself, it just 
gives control over the number  which wouldnt explain how someone else was able to 
obtain the card details. Without that I cant uphold the complaint and I think it more likely 
than not that Mr H was responsible for these transactions and it was reasonable for BoS to 
hold him liable for them.As theres no new evidence that could explain how an unknown third party could obtain the 
necessary card details in order to make these transactions, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman