DRN-4223985
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the way in which three claims have been handled by U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI) on their home (emergency) insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint and recommended UKI to pay Mr and Mrs G 
£50 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Both parties agreed to this outcome, but 
Mr and Mrs G say compensation has yet to be paid. So, this complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
Claim relating to blocked drainage system
The policy doesnt cover claims for the cost of emergency assistance needed for drainage 
systems involving septic tanks. Mr and Mrs G havent disputed that the blockage was 
caused by a septic tank. So, I dont think UKI has unreasonably declined Mr and Mrs Gs 
claim in this respect.
Mr and Mrs G say that a claim relating to a sewage system had been previously accepted. 
That was many years ago. UKI says it doesnt hold details of the earlier claim. That isnt 
surprising given how long ago it was. But its not unusual for policy terms to change over 
time and further, just because a claim may have been covered previously, I dont think that 
means UKI has acted unfairly in the circumstances of this case by not covering the claim. 
The previous claim couldve been covered because there was cover under the policy at the 
time, covered as a gesture of goodwill or in error.
Claim relating to internal garage door
The policy doesnt cover claims for emergency assistance for internal locks, doors or glass. 
So, I dont think UKI has unreasonably relied on the policy to decline Mr and Mrs Gs claim in 
relation an internal garage door which they were unable to open.
Claim for breakdown of oil boiler
UKI agreed coverage under the terms of the policy. But it couldnt find a contractor to attend 
Mr and Mrs Gs property to inspect and repair the boiler until the following week. It offered to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs G the cost of using their own contractor, which I think was fair in the 
circumstances. UKI also offered Mr and Mrs G £60 towards buying wood to use to heat their 
house using their wood burner.
Mr and Mrs G arranged for someone else to attend the property to fix the boiler. I understand 
they werent charged for this work. So, although UKI had agreed to cover the cost of repairs, 
as Mr and Mrs G didnt incur any expenses, I dont think theres anything for Mr and Mrs G to 
recover under the policy.
I accept that initially being told by UKI that theyd have to wait a week for a contractor to 
attend their property wouldve been worrying for Mr and Mrs G given the time of year, which 
is likely to have been very cold. 
UKI apologised for this and said it would be providing feedback. But I think Mr and Mrs G 
experienced some distress and inconvenience by arranging for someone else to attend the 
property and didnt have a working boiler for a few days. So, I dont think an apology is 
enough to put things right in this case. Im satisfied £50 compensation fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience experienced and has been agreed by the parties. 
Mr and Mrs G would like compensation to be paid by cheque. They dont want to provide 
their bank details to a third party to arrange payment by bank transfer. UKI has agreed to 
arrange payment by cheque, but Mr and Mrs G say they have yet to receive payment. 
Putting things right
Within 14 days of our Service notifying UKI that Mr and Mrs G accept my final decision, I 
direct it to pay Mr and Mrs G £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience by way of 
cheque.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman