DRN-2829249
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). He isnt 
happy that it increased his motor insurance premium after he had taken his policy out. 
What happened
Mr K took out his car insurance policy with LV through a comparison website. LV said hed 
answered the question it asked about his driving history incorrectly. And it considered this to 
be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to charge an additional premium. 
As Mr K wasnt happy about this, he brought his complaint to this Service and our 
investigator thought it should be upheld. This was because Mr K had been told by his 
previous insurers, and been provided with a letter confirming this, that he didnt need to 
disclose a previous incident he had been involved in. Our investigator was satisfied that if 
there had been a misrepresentation, he didnt think LV had shown it was a qualifying one 
and so it hadnt acted fairly in increasing Mr Ks premium. 
As LV didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. Ultimately, LV said that Mr K knew about the incident and shouldve 
told it about it.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer also has to show it would have offered the policy 
on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation (if there was one) was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to tell it about an incident he was involved in around September 2016.
Ive looked at what Mr K was asked and what hed been told previously by his insurer from 
that time and his subsequent insurers. And while I can understand why LV took the position 
it did, as Mr K had been involved in an incident in September 2016, I think Mr K answered 
the question in a fair and honest way and that he took reasonable care. 
I say this as his previous insurer suggested that he didnt need to disclose this incident in the 
future and provided a letter saying that This should not be impacting you or the named 
driver any which ways. And Mr K went on to clarify things with his subsequent insurers who 
confirmed that his understanding was correct. He checked what they required from him 
about this incident and confirmed his understanding that he didnt need to disclose this 
incident. And so, Mr K was satisfied that he had answered LVs question correctly and in line 
with the advice he had been given when he looked to take out insurance through it. 
Given all of this Im satisfied that Mr K took reasonable care in answering the question and 
acted in line with how a reasonable consumer would. And so, as there wasnt a qualifying 
misrepresentation, I think the complaint should be upheld as the actions LV has taken 
(asking for a small increase in premium) are unfair and not in line with CIDRA. So, I think the 
fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for the 
complaint to be upheld and for LV not to charge the small additional premium.
Finally, I understand Mr K feels that LV was accusing him of fraud when it looked to ask him 
about the incident from 2016. But Im satisfied that wasnt the case from the information 
before me. LV was simply looking to check it had a thorough and clear understanding of Mr 
Ks true driving history given it had become aware of the incident in 2016. And although Mr K 
felt hed been told he didnt need to disclose this LV was entitled to ask a few questions 
about this.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. And I 
require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited not to charge Mr K any additional 
premium.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman