DRN-3719986
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the way Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) handled a claim under a 
furniture warranty policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Mrs A purchased 2 matching sofas in 2017 and took out a 5-year protection plan on 
them.
Mrs A tells us an area of her sofa suffered a slight tear. And she made a claim on her 
policy in January 2022.
A technician attended but couldnt complete a repair.
A replacement part was ordered but, in March 2022 she was advised the 
manufacturers no longer made the same sofa and couldnt provide the part needed.
Amtrust then offered a reselection with the original retailer and said would contribute 
£904.50 towards the cost of new furniture, or make a cash settlement of £452.25.
Mrs A was unhappy this, she said the reselection offer wasnt sufficient to make a 
suitable purchase and she wanted the furniture to be replaced with 2 sofas from an 
equal range to those shed purchased.
Amtrust reiterated the 2 options to resolve the complaint. 
1. a reselection option for £904.50 to purchase a replacement with the original 
retailer
2. A cash settlement of £452.25, representing 50% of the reselection option, and 
keep the damaged item
Mrs A wasnt happy with these options and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said the settlement offered was fair and in line with the policy terms 
and conditions.
Mrs A remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and I find it clear they allow Amtrust the option 
to repair, replace or make a cash settlement. And I find it reasonable for Amtrust to order the 
replacement part when the initial repair wasnt possible, so I dont hold it responsible for any 
delay in this regard.
The terms set out where Amtrust is not able to repair the damage it may provide a 
replacement, but as the furniture is no longer available it cant do this. Its reselection offer is 
in line with the policy terms and conditions, and it has offered 50% of the purchase price of 
the matching sofa even though this isnt damaged. This isnt a requirement in the policy, and 
Im satisfied its a fair approach and in line with a general industry approach to matching 
items.
The terms go onto say Amtrust may, at its sole discretion, choose to offer a cash settlement 
and it has also offered this option to Mrs A. I find it clear any cash settlement will be limited 
to the cost of repair or replacement. In its offer letter Amtrust sets out the cash settlement 
amount is based on the anticipated costs it would incur. It is likely Amtrust receives a 
discount from the retailer, this is not uncommon, and it wouldnt be reasonable to ask 
Amtrust to make an increased cash offer.
Im satisfied the policy is clear that its maximum liability is the original purchase price and its 
reasonable the cost of previous repair claims are deducted otherwise Amtrust would be 
making a settlement for more than the purchase price.
Mrs A has asked if Amtrust could reupholster the existing sofas, this isnt something I can 
instruct Amtrust to do as it has made a settlement offer in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
In the circumstances of this case Im satisfied Amtrust has acted reasonably and I wont be 
asking it to do anything more than it has.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman