DRN-3731308
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Nationwide Building Society loaded a Credit Industry Fraud Awareness 
(CIFAS) marker. Hed like the marker removed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The background facts are not in dispute  which transactions are disputed and why  
so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
our investigator.
The marker that Nationwide asked to be applied is for misuse of facility. The misuse relates 
to contactless card abuse. For Nationwide to record this, they dont need to be able to prove 
beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty of an offence. But they are expected to be able 
to demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime 
has been committed or attempted. They must also be able to show that the evidence theyve 
based this on is clear, relevant and rigorous such that it could confidently report the conduct 
of Mr H to the Police  though this doesnt mean that they must make such a report.
The alleged fraud or financial crime here relates to Mr H reporting his genuine contactless 
transactions as fraudulent ones. Nationwide has explained that Mr H reported a number of 
fraudulent payments on his card in 2017. Then in 2019, he opened a new account with it, 
and the same pattern of behaviour quickly happened again. I can see that in 2019, he 
reported contactless fraud once in August and twice in September. Nationwide applied for 
the CIFAS marker after the second incident in September.
Ive reviewed the evidence that Nationwide held in 2019 and from this Im satisfied it did 
have enough to report its concerns to CIFAS at that time. Mr H had reported three instances 
of contactless fraud on his account in nine weeks. And had each time then genuinely used 
his card after the fraudulent payments. So while someone else had  by his testimony  
taken the card and made these payments, each time theyd then returned the card to him.
All three instances follow a similar pattern, where Mr Hs card is used genuinely by him up to 
a point in the evening and then payments late into the night/into the early hours of the next 
day are disputed. And there were also considerably delays between the payments 
happening and Mr H reporting the fraud to Nationwide. If his testimony is accepted, this 
suggests each time he was unaware the fraud was happening and only discovered this by 
later looking at his statements later  which is why he didnt report it straight away. And as 
above, this pattern is very similar to what he reported a number of times in 2017.
I can see that Nationwide did try and speak to Mr H about the third set of fraudulent 
transactions before it applied to CIFAS, but it wasnt able to get hold of him. So based on the 
evidence it did hold, and that it tried to speak to Mr H about what had happened, I cant say it 
was unfair to ask for the misuse of facility marker to be applied. It hadnt received any 
explanation from Mr H about the reasonable concerns it had.
However, our service has been able to speak to Mr H and has gathered more information on 
what happened. So I need to consider whether its appropriate for the marker to remain, 
based on the information we now hold.
Mr H has explained that during the period of time he reported the fraudulent payments he 
was heavily socialising. He said he did lose his card at times and that other people did use it. 
He gave details of one instance he reported to the Police. He set out that his statement 
dates didnt match the actual times and dates wed since been able to provide him for the 
transactions. So in 2019, hed provided the information to Nationwide on the basis of what 
his statements showed, which didnt match the days he expected to see transactions.
Ive considered whether this means that the marker should be removed. For the marker to 
remain wed need to see there was evidence Mr H was deliberately dishonest in his actions, 
rather than merely mistakenly reporting some transactions, as it now seems he is suggesting 
he did. Based on what Ive seen, Im still satisfied that Nationwide has acted fairly in 
escalating its concerns to CIFAS and that despite the further information, the marker should 
remain. Ill explain why.
We discussed the last set of payments with Mr H on a recent call. In 2019, Mr H disputed the 
payments made between 8:53pm and 3:38am on 28/29 September, but didnt dispute a Chip 
and PIN payment later in the morning of 29 September. He confirmed in the call thats 
because it wouldve been him that used the card at 11:01am that day. He explained hed 
slept in a car in a car park that night and so had then paid for the parking in the morning.
Looking at Mr Hs statements, the parking charge appears the same day as all the payments 
which he has disputed. So it doesnt logically follow that Mr H couldve understood the 
parking charge was statemented on a later date, but not that other payments then could be 
too. The disputed payments are for a music venue in the same city that Mr H accepts he 
parked his car in, which is somewhere several hours away from where he lived.
Considering Mr H has told us he was heavily socialising at that time, and hed woken up in a 
car the night after/morning of the disputed payments, I dont think his explanation is 
plausible. It doesnt follow that hed travelled to this city, had an evening out there and 
stayed overnight in someones car, but knew he didnt spend any money. So all hed 
expected to see on his statement from his time there was parking. Or that considering this, 
someone else had managed to obtain his card and used it, but returned it to him at the end 
of the night, all without his knowledge.It is a serious thing to report to Nationwide that you have been the victim of fraud, you are 
saying youve been the victim of a crime. But I cant say that Mr H had the evidence to 
suggest this was what had happened to him. Instead, as set out with the last reported 
transactions above, I think Mr H had evidence that it was most likely, if not definitely, him 
who spent the money  but instead he chose to start another fraud case with Nationwide and 
report these payments. Considering hed reported similar instances contactless fraud twice 
previously on this account and several times on another from 2017, this does show 
reasonable grounds that he was intending to defraud the bank and be refunded for 
transactions hed made. So Im satisfied its fair for the CIFAS marker to remain.
Mr H has also complained about Nationwide saying it closed his accounts when hes saying 
he was the one that closed them. But I cant see that this has actually caused him any loss 
or detriment either way. We dont have full information from 2017, but both parties accept the 
account was closed. Its possible that there was an overlap between Mr H asking for the 
account to be closed and Nationwide determining it was going to close the account for him  
as the records arent clear on this. But I dont see that this really impacts my outcome here, 
as both parties wanted the account to be closed and it was.
In relation to the 2019 closure, Nationwide has provided letters it sent in October 2019 
saying it was going to close the account in December 2019. I can see Mr H withdrew all his 
funds on 31 October 2019, so before the automatic closure was actioned. However the 
account was still open a few days later as I can see direct debits were attempted. It is 
possible Mr H asked for his account to be closed when he withdrew all his funds and this 
wasnt correctly actioned, but again even if this was the case, the account did then close a 
short while later. And as above, I cant see this has caused Mr H any loss that I should 
award for. I also cant see that Mr H continued to pursue the fraud claim despite him 
explaining he was closing his account because of how things had been handled. Its unusual 
someone wouldnt continue with this when theyre confident they didnt spend these funds 
and that strength of feeling has led to them closing their account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman