DRN-4315950
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to an 
investment scam.
Background
In 2021, Mr C decided to invest his money in cryptocurrency. A trusted friend told him that 
hed earned generous returns by using the services of a particular broker and recommended 
Mr C do the same. Unfortunately, it subsequently transpired that the broker wasnt a 
legitimate business, but a scam. In total, he made eighteen payments in connection with this 
scam. The total value of the funds he transferred was over £100,000.
Mr C tells us he carried out extensive online research about the company that he was 
planning to invest with. He found a significant number of positive reviews. He also says that 
he checked the website of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), but didnt 
find anything on there to concern him. There was a later warning posted on that website 
regarding this broker, but it hadnt been published at the time Mr C decided to go ahead with 
his investment plans.
On 9 July, he decided to test the waters by making a payment of just under £3,500 using his 
debit card. He then observed how the group made use of his funds. He was given access to 
a platform which showed the performance of the investment. This indicated that he was 
earning a healthy return, as promised. By 26 July, he was persuaded that the investment 
opportunity was a legitimate one and so he made two transfers via faster payments of 
£10,000.
On 5 Aug, a warning was posted on the website of the FCA saying that the business Mr C 
believed he was investing with was offering services to UK customers without authorisation. 
It explained that anyone investing money with this company would not benefit from certain 
consumer protections  for example, their deposits wouldnt be protected by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme and it wouldnt be possible to bring a complaint about the  
company to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It stopped short, however, of saying that 
there was evidence that this company was defrauding its customers.
On 16 August 2021, HSBC blocked an attempted payment by Mr C of £3,000. This wouldve
been his seventh payment in relation to the scam and wouldve taken his total spending up
to around £40,000. HSBC wanted to ensure that Mr C wasnt at risk of financial harm due to
fraud and so it wanted to ask him a few questions before it would consider allowing the
payment to be made. He was asked what the reason for the payment was. Mr C responded
its a payment for services.
He was asked to confirm that hed read the fraud warning given at the time he made the
payment online and to confirm that he was paying for services from a known source. The
call handler went on to give Mr C a brief exposition of some typical scam risks, in particular
describing how a so-called safe account scam would operate. Overall, Mr C confirmed he
was happy to proceed with the payment.
In practice, the payment wasnt processed. As far as I can see, HSBC wasnt happy with the
answers Mr C gave to its questions but failed to communicate this to him. He called the
following day (17 August) and spoke to a different call handler. After a brief discussion, he
was told the payment would be made.
Mr C had a further conversation with HSBC on 19 August about a different payment. He was
(not unreasonably) frustrated to have had to call up a second time to authorise the payment
and bemoaned that hed spent over 45 minutes waiting. This call handler asked him several
basic questions to rule out commonly occurring fraud risks. Mr C told the call handler Ive
sent money to them before and the moneys arrived and everythings been fine. This
payment was duly processed. Over the next few days, Mr C continued to transfer money into
his investment.
On 6 September, HSBC called Mr C to discuss one of the payments hed made on 6 August.
It had received a communication from the receiving bank (i.e. the bank that operated the
account controlled by the fraudster) which suggested that the person Mr C had been dealing
with was a likely fraudster. The call went as follows:
B: Weve received a report from [the receiving bank] saying that their customer .
the person youve sent the money to is unfortunately running an investment scam
Mr C: What are they called, sorry?
B: Youve made that payment to [name of scam company] and that payment was
made by yourself on 6 August.
Mr C: Right, okay.
B: So essentially thats the reason why Im calling ... to find out what that payment
was for and how you came about making it 
Mr C: [inaudible]  but it wasnt fraudulent because the moneys gone through and
its been received.
B: No, no, absolutely, yes, but theyre saying that their customer is running an
investment scam, so was this an investment payment?
Mr C: It was, yeah, but its not a scam  I know who they are.
B: Ill just read out the email that [the receiving bank] have sent us.
Mr C: Ok, its not great reception  but go on
B: Ok, the email says one of our customers has been reported as the beneficiary of
scam funds  investment fraud. One of your customers, [Mr C], has sent £5,000 to
our account  They essentially want to know what this payment was for.
[]
That individual has been accused of running an investment scam, an investment
fraud and obviously one of the payments has come from yourself.
Mr C: Ok
B: So, you said you know this individual?
Mr C: Its an investment but I couldnt send it a certain way one day, so I sent it viathis link  but the moneys been received by the people Ive sent it to.
B: Yeah, thats clearly  thats clear. Its just whether youre going to receive what
you paid for, thats essentially the crux of it.
Mr C: Yeah, I need to look into it then, dont I?
B: Theres actually also three other payments we wanted to find out about as well
that were around that time 
[call handler describes three other payments to cryptocurrency platforms]
Mr C: Yeah, theyre in my wallet, I know where they are.
B: So those three are in your wallet, is that correct?
Mr C: Yes
B: Ok, so what about the £5,000 that [the receiving bank] have told us about?
Mr C: Ive got to look into that further, Ive got absolutely no idea.
B: If you do find out that its a scam then call us on [number]  do not make any
further payments. Any sort of investments that you are doing, obviously, do your due
diligence. Avoid making bank transfers to people you dont know. Stick to more
secure methods of payment, such as a credit card because that gives you more
consumer rights.
Mr C: I dont want to use a credit card because of the fees, but I understand where
youre coming from.
[Mr C clarifies which payment the call is in relation to]
B: [The receiving bank] have said that sort code and account number is running an
investment scam and one of the payments into that account has obviously come from
yourself.
Mr C told the call handler he would look into it. I dont know what steps he took in the 
aftermath of this phone call, but I can see that he went on to make four further payments to 
the scammer. The total value of those transfers was £23,000.
Once Mr C realised it was a scam, he contacted HSBC via a third-party representative. He
complained that these transactions were out of character and the bank shouldve intervened.
If it had done so appropriately, the fraud wouldve been prevented. It also said that HSBC
failed to respond properly when it was informed by the receiving bank that Mr C was paying
money to a scammer.
HSBC looked into things but didnt agree to reimburse him. It sent its final response to
Mr Cs representatives and said:
To confirm, not all payments are held for fraud checks and as [Mr Cs] payments
were sent using his secure banking details, the payments were securely authorised
by him.
Furthermore, payments sent to other accounts are by a customers ownarrangements and at their own risk. Several checks were made into [Mr Cs]
payments and some payments were reversed when our Fraud Department could not
receive confirmation the payments he was making were genuine. However, when a
customer confirms payments are genuine and instructs them to be released, were
obliged to do so. Therefore, I cannot agree first direct have failed in our obligations to
check these payments with [Mr C].
Moving to your comments regarding the information we received from [the receiving
bank]. Following receipt of the information about his payment of £5,000 on 06-Aug-
2021 we contacted [Mr C] on 06-Sep-2021. While you claim we had failed to act,
having reviewed this conversation, I confirm [he] was informed that [the receiving
bank] told us the beneficiaries of the account [he] had sent his money to were
running an investment scam.
[He] didnt feel he was being scammed and told us he knew the people he was
paying. We asked [him] for more details about the reason for the payment. However,
[he] didnt oblige and explained he would look into matters.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was
looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. She noted that HSBC had an obligation to
be on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions that might have indicated that
there was an enhanced risk of fraud. On spotting an aberrant payment request, it shouldnt
process that payment before speaking to the customer to satisfy itself that they werent at
risk of financial harm due to fraud.
The Investigator concluded that HSBC ought to have intervened by the fourth payment. If it
had done so, she was persuaded that the scam wouldve been stopped from that point
onwards. However, she also considered the call on 6 September in which HSBC informed
Mr C that concerns had been shared with it about a potential investment scam. She thought
that Mr C ought to have been concerned by the information that had been shared with him.
However, she thought HSBC shouldnt have allowed Mr C to make further payments once it
knew that hed fallen victim to a scam. Overall, she thought it would be fair for HSBC to
reimburse 50% of Mr Cs losses from that point onwards.
She also looked at whether HSBC shouldve raised a chargeback for those scam payments
that were made by card. She didnt think it needed to do so because it wouldnt have had
any reasonable prospect of success.
HSBC disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It argued that:
 despite clearly being told not to send any further Payments on 6 September 2021,
[Mr C] went away, ignored that advice and re-started the Payments a week later.
That therefore offers a very strong indication of how [he] would have reacted had we
warned him at the time of the fourth Payment. If [he] was unwilling to follow our
advice and cease the Payments in September 2021 following a very strong warning,
it is very likely that he wouldnt have as a result of what would have been a far more
generic warning prior to 6 September 2021.
I asked the Investigator to clarify why Mr C continued to make payments after that call. His
representatives responded to say that Mr C couldnt recall the precise details (which is
understandable given how much time has since passed). However, he said that he wasnt
told at any point that this was an investment scam nor asked any questions other than
whether it was him authorising the payments.
His representatives also pointed out that during this call, the employee of the bank didnt askMr C any probing questions about the payment. It also pointed out that by the time this
conversation happened, a warning had been published on the FCA website. If the employee
of the bank had searched for the name of the payee, it wouldve seen beyond doubt that that
this was an investment scam and couldve warned him in stronger terms than it did.
Since both sides disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to
me to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 July 2023. I wrote:
The starting point here is that Mr C authorised these payments. Under the relevant 
regulations, he is therefore considered liable for them at first instance. However, 
HSBC had a well-established duty to be on the lookout for account activity or 
transactions that were unusual or out of character to the extent that they might 
indicate that he was at risk of financial harm due to fraud.
I agree with the Investigators conclusion that concerns about out of character activity 
on Mr Cs account ought to have prompted action by 26 July 2021. On that day, Mr C 
made two transfers of £10,000. This wasnt in keeping with the way his account had 
typically been used and was large enough that it ought to have been a concern to 
HSBC. It shouldnt have taken this payment instruction at face value. It should 
instead have spoken to Mr C to satisfy itself that he hadnt been targeted by a 
scammer.
However, I have to consider whether this failing was the cause of Mr Cs losses. Its 
difficult to look at the way Mr C responded when told by an employee of the bank that 
hed transferred money to someone perpetrating an investment scam and not draw 
inferences about how he would have responded had he been called on 26 July.
Mr Cs representatives have made some well-founded criticisms of the way that call 
was handled. But the relevant information was conveyed to Mr C without any 
ambiguity. He was told that the owner of the account he paid had been credibly 
accused of running an investment scam. Mr C was initially resistant to the idea 
because he knew that his funds had been successfully transferred to their intended 
destination. But the call handler clarified this misunderstanding by telling him that the 
concern was whether youre going to receive what you paid for.
Mr C told the call handler that he would look into it. I dont know what steps he did 
take in response to this call. He did make further payments, but as far as I can see, 
that wasnt based on false reassurances from the fraudsters. I take the point Mr Cs 
representatives have made about the fact that HSBC couldve consulted the FCA 
website and told him about the warning that was published in August. However, that 
warning didnt categorically say that the payee was a fraudster, simply that it was 
operating without authorisation. The warning on the FCA website was worded in less 
stringent terms than the information he was given during the phone call. Its difficult to 
see why being referred to that warning wouldve altered Mr Cs actions if the phone 
call wasnt enough to do so.
Overall, I think HSBC ought to have intervened on 26 July, but I dont think that failing 
was the cause of Mr Cs losses here. On the balance of probabilities, Im not 
persuaded that any reasonable intervention wouldve prevented Mr C from continuing to make payments.
Payment 6
The majority of the payments Mr C made in connection with this scam were made to 
his own account on a third-party cryptocurrency platform. However, on 6 August, he 
made a payment of £5,00 directly to the account controlled by the fraudster.
As a result, that payment is covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. Under that code, the starting point is that HSBC 
is expected to reimburse Mr Cs losses. There are several potential exceptions to 
reimbursement. However, from the information Ive seen, Mr C had a reasonable 
basis for believing he was paying into a genuine investment and so Im not 
persuaded that any of these are applicable.
HSBC said it had nothing further to add. Mr Cs representatives disagreed with my 
provisional findings. In summary, they argued that:
The call between Mr C and the bank was so flawed that it didnt reach the standard 
required to actually notify Mr C that fraud was taking place. 
The bank didnt ask any questions of Mr C to establish whether this was a scam.
The bank was on notice that fraud was occurring and yet processed further payments 
from Mr C anyway.
Ive considered these further representations carefully. Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
I think the observations Mr Cs representatives have made about the shortcomings of the call 
are generally fair ones. However, I dont think it automatically follows that those 
shortcomings were the cause of Mr Cs losses. For example, Mr Cs representatives have 
argued that, by delegating responsibility to Mr C to find out whether this investment was a 
legitimate one, the bank pushed him back into the hands of the fraudsters. However, that 
isnt consistent with the testimony Ive seen from Mr C. If he had contacted the company he 
believed he was investing with and been given misleading reassurances, the outcome of this 
complaint might be different. Instead, Mr Cs testimony suggests he took no action in 
response to the call at all.
Fundamentally, the HSBC call handler conveyed the risks to Mr C with sufficient clarity and 
his responses indicated that he understood what hed been told.  As I understand it, Mr C 
took no further precautions once this information had been shared with him. I think its a 
difficult argument to make that if HSBC had done more (for example, recommending he 
consult the FCA website or that he attempt to withdraw money from the platform) that it 
wouldve been enough to change his subsequent actions given how serious the information 
hed been told was and how he responded to it.
Ive also considered the argument that HSBC was essentially on notice that Mr C was falling 
victim to an investment scam and that it therefore had an obligation to stop him from making 
further payments. However, the call handler did query the earlier payments Mr C had made 
to a cryptocurrency platform. He reassured them that cryptocurrency was in his wallet, and 
he still had control of it. 
Its also significant that Mr Cs previous payments in connection with the scam were to three 
separate payees. When he started sending payments again after the phone call, it was to a new payee to which he hadnt sent funds before. I dont think the connection between the 
later payments and the payment it queried with him wouldve been so obvious that Id have 
expected HSBC to take the approach of blocking payments outright. 
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that Mr C is the victim of a cruel and 
cynical crime. I know that he will be hugely disappointed by my decision. However, Im 
unpersuaded that any shortcoming on the part of HSBC was the cause of Mr Cs loss here. 
And if it had responded in a suitable and proportionate way, I dont find that the evidence 
shows Mr C wouldve acted differently.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. If Mr C accepts my 
decision, HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund him the £5,000 covered by the CRM Code. It 
should add 8% simple interest to this sum calculated to run from when his claim was 
declined until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman