DRN-3011852
The complaint
Miss J complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wont pay her home insurance 
claim for the cost of a carpet damaged in the course of tracing and accessing a gas leak.
What happened
In February 2021 Miss J noticed a smell of gas coming from the corner of her living room. 
She had to rip up the carpet to trace the leak, and found that when fitting it some 10 years 
previously the carpet gripper had been nailed into the gas pipe. Presumably it had moved, 
thus causing the leak. She turned off the gas and called out a Gas Safe engineer. He 
repaired the pipe but had to damage a bit more of the carpet in the process. Miss J 
submitted invoices for the repair of the pipe and for the replacement of the carpet
Lloyds settled the claim for the repair of the pipe under the accidental damage cover in the 
policy. However it wouldnt pay for the carpet. It pointed out that trace and access cover only 
applied to buildings and to oil or water leaks. And as the damage to the carpet wasnt 
accidental, it wasnt covered as accidental damage.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Lloyds had acted reasonably and within 
the policy terms. 
Miss J said this was unfair and explained that shed had to rip up the carpet because of the 
gas leak emergency. She didnt think that a lay person should be expected to understand the 
limitation of the trace and access cover.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I do understand why Miss J felt she had to get to the source of the gas leak 
quickly. Whilst arguably she should have turned the gas off and waited for the engineer to 
arrive, reading his report, there was no guarantee that the carpet wouldnt have been 
damaged any way.
Home insurance is intended to cover damage that happens which is not done deliberately. 
Most home insurance policies have extra cover, which normally applies to buildings only, for 
damage done in the course of tracing and accessing a leak. And the leak must be of oil or 
water. This follows on from the cover for escape of water or oil. Whilst I wouldnt expect a lay 
person to undersnd that this doesnt apply to a leak from a gas pipe, I dont think that most 
home insurance policies would cover this either.
A gas leak in itself isnt covered under the policy, although the consequences of it might be, 
like fire or explosion. Under the buildings section of the policy, the cover is as follows:
Trace and access. We will also pay up to £5,000 in total for the costs we have agreed to in 
advance, for locating the source of the water or oil damage including the reinstatement of 
any wall, flooring or ceiling removed or damaged during the search. 
So its intended to cover damage to the building. And whilst the repair of the pipe is covered 
as the putting a nail through the pipe was accidental damage, the taking up of the carpet 
wasnt accidental. And although I understand why this was done, fitted carpets are regarded 
as contents, and come under the contents cover in the policy.
So unfortunately Miss Js replacement carpet isnt covered under her policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman