DRN-3058378
The complaint
Mr E complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a chargeback.
What happened
Mr E asked Barclays to raise a chargeback following a car purchase in September 2020. He 
says there was a number of problems with the car and had tried to return it to the garage 
that sold it to him. Mr E says in summary there were problems with the car that were not 
known when he tested it and was given a courtesy car without tax and a MOT. He would like 
Barclays to pay the cost of £2,190 and says Barclays reasons for rejecting the claim are 
wrong and inaccurate.
Barclays says it raised a chargeback in early 2021 and refunded Mr E the cost but says the 
merchant successfully defended the claim. It also says it asked Mr E for further information, 
but it wasnt received within the 10-day period. Barclays says it acted in line with the 
chargeback rules.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained the chargeback rules and in summary thought Barclays was reasonably entitled to 
reject the chargeback. The investigator also thought that the scheme rules didnt specifically 
allow for call recordings to be used as evidence which Mr E provided about the complaint 
and his conversations with the car dealer.
Mr E doesnt accept that view and questions why the chargeback rules dont rule out the use 
of such recordings. He disputes Barclays reasons for rejecting the chargeback.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my decision.
The chargeback rules as Mr E knows are not set by Barclays but by the card provider, and a 
chargeback is a voluntary scheme, not a right. We would normally expect a bank or building 
society to raise a chargeback, but I make clear that such a business is normally entitled to 
make a reasonable decision about how far a chargeback can be taken in line with the rules.
Im satisfied that Barclays raised a chargeback on Mr Es behalf and that the merchant 
defended that chargeback. I can see that this was clearly a dispute that both sides disagreed 
upon. In those circumstances Im satisfied that Barclays was reasonably entitled to consider 
the chargeback rules and decide that it could no longer take matters any further forward. 
And so, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly or made a mistake by doing so.
I appreciate Mr E questions why recorded evidence couldnt be used and also questions 
Barclays reasons for making its decision. I think its up to the card providers not Barclays to 
decide in which format it accepts evidence and think overall Barclays explained the 
important point that the merchant defended the chargeback and it couldnt be taken further. I 
accept Mr E tried to return the vehicle but dont think that had any impact on the overall, 
decision.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays fairly followed the chargeback rules and did what we 
would have expected it do namely raise a chargeback. I find in these circumstances 
Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude it could no longer take the chargeback any 
further forward. I find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally 
can do. And can see Mr E is considering alternative action which would consider some of the 
points he raises, that are not part of a chargeback or our considerations such as the 
courtesy car problems.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman