DRN-1830087
 
The complaint
Ms W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to tell her of an exemption applied to a
critical illness policy it recommended to her.
What happened
In 2009 Ms W spoke with Barclays about applying for a critical illness policy. An application
was completed in which Ms W declared a family history of a specific illness. The application
was processed by the insurance provider (a business separate to Barclays) and it was
automatically underwritten with an exclusion relation to the specified illness. The policy then
commenced, with the exclusion included, in April 2009.
In 2019 Ms W was unfortunately diagnosed with the specified illness. She made a claim to
the insurance provider, but it was turned down because of the exclusion.
Following this Ms W made several complaints. The insurance provider explained that it felt
the policy had been correctly underwritten and that Ms W had been informed of its decision
to do so by way of the policy documents sent to her. There was some uncertainty around
which address these documents had been sent to, and a complaint was also made to
Barclays relating to this; that Barclays had provided the insurance provider with an incorrect
address for Ms W.
Both these complaints were referred to this service, but neither upheld. So, the outstanding
issue now is the subject of this complaint - did Barclays fail to inform Ms W of the exclusion
and, by extension, deprive her of the opportunity to find an alternative policy that would've
covered her for the illness, meaning she could've made a successful claim in 2019.
Barclays didn't uphold this complaint. It acknowledged that it had very little information or
documentation relating to the recommendation. But it felt that, in any event, Ms W would've
been aware of the exclusion by way of the policy schedule and other documents.
Our investigator also felt the complaint shouldn't be upheld. He noted that Barclays had
been unable to provide any supporting documentation and concluded that it was more likely
than not that the adviser had failed to inform Ms W of the exclusion, so she ended up with a
policy that was fundamentally different to that which she'd wanted.
But he didn't think that Ms W had incurred a loss as a result of Barclays' failing. He wasn't
persuaded that if Ms W had been made aware of the exclusion she would've sought out
alternative cover. Or even in the event she had done that she would've proceeded with it,
given the greater costs involved.
Ms W didn't accept the investigator's view. She highlighted that at the time she'd been
vulnerable, and in difficult personal circumstances. She also felt that as she was a staff
member she'd been treated dismissively by Barclays, with less care taken with the
advice. She recalled the adviser telling there it was unlikely she would be diagnosed with the illness in question.
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I have sympathy
with Ms W's position, I don't think there's sufficient evidence to support a finding, on
balance, that Barclays acted incorrectly and failed to tell her about the exemption.
I've noted her recollections of the sale and that she says no mention was made by the
adviser, or at least it wasn't clearly explained, meaning she was unaware of the
consequences of the exclusion being applied. But the family history was declared and there
was clearly some discussion of the matter. Ms W has said that the adviser told her that she
was not going to get the illness.
It does strike me as unlikely that an adviser would've made that sort of comment. But even if
that was the case, Ms W would still have been aware, or ought reasonably to have been
aware, that the exclusion had been applied as she'd have received policy documents from
the insurance provider.
I note she says she perhaps didn't receive these, as she no longer has them and there was
also the issue with the address. But Ms W did return the 'confirmation schedule' document -
which recorded what details had been submitted for the application - to the insurance
provider, albeit some weeks after the policy started. This shows that she received at least
some documents from the insurance provider.
So, even if I was to accept that Ms W was misled by Barclays, either actively with the adviser 
being dismissive of the exclusion, or passively by not mentioning it at all, I think
Ms W would still have been aware of it. But even in the event I was to conclude that she
wasn't told about the exclusion at all, either by way of the adviser or the insurance
documents, I still don't think that it would follow that if she had been made aware she would
more likely than not have sought out a different policy that did provide full cover.
I note the information she's provided showing that it is possible to obtain a policy that would
cover the specific illness. But the cover does become quite expensive and I can't be certain
that it's a cost Ms W would've been prepared to pay in 2009.
I appreciate Ms W will be very disappointed that I've reached the same decision as the
investigator. But having considered al the evidence and the wider circumstances of the
matter, I don't think I can fairly conclude that Barclays is responsible for the
Ms W being in the position of having her claim turned down by the insurance provider.
My final decision
For the reason given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
 
James HarrisOmbudsman