DRN-1419327
 
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK plc didnt provide him with enough information allowing 
him to transfer money from an account he held at another bank to his Barclays Australian 
dollar (AUD) account on the same day. He made a loss when the AUD transfer was 
eventually made the following day.
What happened
Mr S has a number of accounts with Barclays. 
In mid-October 2019, he visited his branch to ask about urgently transferring £400,000 from 
an account held at another bank to his Barclays AUD account. An advisor said he should 
visit the other bank and instruct them to make a transfer to his GBP account at Barclays, 
and as soon as this was received a transfer to the AUD account would be made. 
Mr S did visit the other bank, and a transfer was made. The funds credited Mr Ss Barclays 
GBP account later that day. The Barclays advisor then phoned Mr S to advise the funds had 
been received. But he told Mr S hed need to attend the bank in person to make the transfer 
to the AUD account - the amount was too big for a telephone request only. Mr S was angry 
this wasnt made clear when he visited earlier that day. It was too late for him to get to the 
branch by that time, so he attended the next morning, and the transfer was made. Mr S 
believes hes lost out as the exchange rate the next day wasnt as high as the previous day. 
Mr S asked Barclays to refund the loss - he says caused by the advisors wrong advice. 
Barclays responded, saying their advisor didnt know how much Mr S wanted to transfer 
when he first visited the bank. They say Mr S was correctly advised he could make a transfer 
from his GBP account to his AUD account, but it was open to Mr S to ask his other bank if 
they could send directly to the Barclays AUD account instead.
Mr S was unhappy with this response so brought his complaint to us. Upholding this, our 
investigator said Barclays advisor didnt give enough information to Mr S. He thought, had 
the advisor explained Barclays limits for telephone transfers, Mr S would have ensured he 
went to the branch to complete the transfer on the day. But regarding Mr S not being told he 
could transfer directly into the AUD account, our investigator noted Mr S had tried before, 
unsuccessfully, to transfer money (from the other bank) to the AUD account. He said, 
following that issue, Mr S was made aware how to successfully make such a transfer  but in 
this case it was reasonable for the advisor to provide an alternative method to carry out the 
transfer. Our investigator also explained, in general terms, how Barclays calculate the rate 
that applied to his transfer, concluding Barclays had applied this correctly and fairly.
 
Our investigator agreed Mr S had lost out financially as a result of the transfer delay. And 
that Barclays should pay Mr S the difference between what he received and what he would have received had the transfer taken place on the first day (together with interest). He also 
said Barclays should pay Mr S £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Barclays told us theyd accept the £100 compensation award, but not the request to 
calculate the transfer amount based on the exchange rate available on the first day. Mr S 
also responded. Whilst agreeing with the outcome, he said the investigator had ignored 
certain facts about communications that took place between him and Barclays on the day. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I agree, essentially, with our investigators 
outcome, and uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr S visited his Barclays branch that day for one reason - to ask about what he had to do to 
transfer, on that day, £400,000 from his other bank to his Barclays AUD account. Im aware 
thered been issues about transferring directly into the Barclays AUD account in the past  a 
complaint this service had considered. And I know Mr S strongly takes issue with the belief 
that, following this issue, he become aware what the process was for making direct transfers 
to the AUD account. He says, had he known he could have made a direct transfer, why 
would he have wasted time going to his Barclays branch in the first place  he could have 
made a single journey to the other (closer) bank and that would have been enough. I can 
understand why Mr S says this. 
However, in this case, I think I only need to focus on what happened on two days  the first 
when Mr S attended his Barclays branch, and the following day when the AUD account was 
credited. Barclays have told us that, when Mr S visited the branch on the first day, they 
recall him being very anxious to make sure the money was received into the AUD account 
because of Brexit uncertainties. I think this is important as it shows, on that day, Barclays  
or more precisely the advisor who spoke to Mr S in-branch - were clearly aware of the 
importance of this transaction to Mr S. And this frames what I think Barclays, or their advisor, 
should reasonably have done to assist Mr S on that day. 
Its not in dispute Mr S had a conversation with an advisor. The advisor told Mr S  correctly 
 that hed need to speak to his other bank about transferring the funds to Barclays. Its also 
not in dispute the advisor only discussed transferring the funds to Mr Ss GBP account and 
not straight to the AUD account. And that the funds could be transferred to the AUD account 
as soon as they were received in the GBP account. 
But Barclays admit their advisor could have provided more detailed information to Mr S on 
his first visit. I agree. I think its reasonable to have expected the advisor - faced with Mr S, a 
customer clearly anxious about transferring funds into his AUD account on that day - to have 
provided clear and sufficient information so hed know what to do to make the AUD transfer 
that day. And from what Ive seen, I dont think the advisor did this. 
Barclays have said their advisor didnt need to know about the processes of Mr Ss other 
bank, which I agree with. And I accept the amount Mr S intended to transfer wasnt 
discussed and that, in principle, the advisor wasnt obliged to ask how much the intended 
transfer would be. 
 
But the advisor would (or should) have known about Barclays own processes, and transfer 
limits. He would, or should, have known it was possible to transfer directly into the AUD 
account. As he was faced with an anxious customer keen to ensure the transfer happened on that day, I think it would have been reasonable for him to at least explain to Mr S that a 
direct transfer was possible. Had he done so, given the importance of the transfer to Mr S, I 
think its likely Mr S would have left the branch with the correct account details (IBAN) to 
allow his other bank to attempt a transfer. Instead, Mr S effectively left with advice to transfer 
the money to the GBP account. 
And, even though the advisor didnt mention a direct transfer was possible, he would or 
should have known there were limits regarding inter-account transfers. So I think its 
reasonable for the advisor to have at least mentioned there were limits on what could be 
transferred over the phone to Mr S. Had he mentioned these (in general terms), I think its 
likely this would have prompted Mr S to say how much the transfer was. And this would then 
have alerted the advisor that Mr S would need to be in-branch when the GBP-AUD transfer 
was made. Given how important the transfer was for Mr S, Im satisfied he would most likely 
have taken steps to ensure he could attend the branch later that day at short notice when 
the funds arrived from his other bank.  
But by the time Barclays did confirm the funds had arrived in Mr Ss GBP account - the 
advisor made attempts to contact Mr S by phone, who called back shortly after - it was too 
late for Mr S to re-visit the branch. The transfer was made the next day.
So, taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied Barclays advisor missed two 
reasonable opportunities to provide Mr S with sufficient information that would have allowed 
him to make a successful AUD transfer on the first day.   
The next thing for me to consider is whether Mr S lost out as a result of the delay in 
transferring his funds. Barclays have confirmed they operate a live foreign exchange 
calculation when someone asks to make a foreign currency transaction. In simple terms, this 
means the exchange rate someone gets changes throughout the day. Barclays have 
confirmed how they calculate this rate but, as this is sensitive information, I wont explain this 
here. But Ive seen this, and am satisfied Mr S was treated fairly, and in the same way as 
any other customer in the same situation. I should also explain the rates published in the 
Financial Times or showing as live on exchange-rate websites are not the rates Barclays 
are committed to offering. These are indicative rates only.
In this case, the key moment is when the money was received from Mr Ss other bank. 
Barclays have confirmed the £400,000 was received into the GBP account shortly after 
3.00pm. Had the money been transferred into the AUD account  which it could have been  
the transfer would have attracted the live exchange rate existing at that time. Alternatively, 
had Mr S taken steps to make himself available to be in-branch when the money hit his 
GBP account, its likely the transfer would have taken place a short while later. 
Ive asked Barclays to provide me with the live exchange rate that existed at 3.30pm  Ive 
asked for this time as its shortly after the money credited the GBP account - so I can 
compare it to the rate Mr S received when the transfer was made the following day. The rate 
available at 3.30pm on the first day was 1.8947. So, had Mr Ss £400,000 been 
transferred/received into his AUD account at this time, his AUD balance would have been 
AUD 757,880. This amount has been confirmed to me by Barclays. 
 
 
When the transfer was made the following day, the exchange rate applied had dropped to 
1.8844, and his AUD balance was AUD 753,760. So, in simple terms, Mr Ss AUD account 
was worse off by AUD 4,120. So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think this loss was effectively caused by the advice provided to Mr S by Barclays advisor. And I think Barclays 
must repay that sum to Mr S, together with interest. 
I also agree Mr S experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the advice the 
advisor provided on the first day. Mr S chose to visit Barclays on the first day and was 
correctly advised to visit the branch of the other bank. But the visit to his Barclays branch on 
the following day was avoidable. I agree with our investigator that Barclays should pay Mr S 
compensation because of this, and that £100 is a fair amount in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold this complaint, and require Barclays Bank UK plc to 
do the following:
Credit AUD 4,120 to Mr Ss Barclays AUD account.
In addition, Barclays must calculate 8% simple interest* on this sum, from 16 October 
2019, the date the transfer should have taken place, to the date this award is paid, 
and credit this amount to Mr Ss AUD account.
Pay Mr S £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
 
*If Barclays Bank UK plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Mark Evans
Ombudsman