DRN-3034850
The complaint
Miss H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a mortgage because its 
valuer failed to identify that there was combustible cladding on the building. Miss H has now 
been asked to contribute to remedying the cladding and wants NatWest to cover the costs.
What happened
Miss H took out a mortgage on a flat with NatWest in 2019. In 2020, she was made aware 
that there was a problem with combustible cladding on the outside of the block. She says 
that she has been asked to contribute up to £20,000 as a leaseholder to the costs of 
remedying the cladding.
Miss H complains that NatWest should not have lent her the mortgage. She says that the 
valuation NatWest carried out failed to identify cladding  if it had done so, she would not 
have bought the flat. She says that NatWest should therefore be responsible for the extra 
costs she will have to pay to contribute to its removal, since if the valuer had identified there 
was a problem, she would not have been liable for them. Miss H says that in 2019 other 
valuers and other lenders were aware of problems with the block, and this valuer should not 
have missed them.
Miss H says that although the valuation was commissioned by NatWest for mortgage 
purposes, the valuer owes her a duty too. And NatWest should have instructed the valuer 
specifically to check for cladding in line with government guidance. 
NatWest said that it asked for a valuation to be carried out  but only a valuation, not a 
report for Miss H. She was advised not to rely on it but to commission her own report. It said 
it relied on the valuation and the property met its lending criteria at the time.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so it comes to me for a final 
decision to be made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In any application for a mortgage, the lender will always require the property to be valued. 
This is to ensure that the property represents good security for the lending. Although the 
borrower usually pays for the valuation  because the lender expects the borrower to cover 
its expenses  a valuation is commissioned by and solely for the benefit of the lender, and its 
only purpose is to advise the lender on whether the property is good security for the loan.
It's open to the borrower to request that, in addition to the valuation, a homebuyers report or 
full structural survey be carried out. These are usually carried out at the same time and by 
the same surveyor as the valuation, at additional cost.
A homebuyers report and structural survey are more detailed reports on the property and its 
condition, designed to advise the borrower about the property so they can make an informed 
decision on whether to go ahead with the purchase.
A valuation is purely advice to the lender on whether to lend; if advice for the borrower is 
required on whether the property is a good buy, a homebuyers report or structural survey 
will be required, and its for the borrower to request that. A valuation contains a warning to 
the borrower setting out its limitations and advising the borrower not to rely on it.
And in any case involving a property purchase, there are two entirely separate and distinct 
decisions to be made. The borrower decides whether or not to purchase the property, and 
whether its a good purchase and value for money. The lender plays no part in that decision. 
The lender  separately  decides whether or not to lend the borrower the money needed to 
fund the purchase in return for a security over the property.
A surveyor will be commissioned to advise the lender on whether to lend  but only to advise 
the lender on whether to lend. If the borrower wants their own advice on whether to buy the 
property, they need to commission the surveyor to produce a homebuyers report or a survey 
as well as the lenders valuation. 
Miss H has referred to court cases around the duty of care owed in cases like this  but 
those cases relate to duties owed by the valuer. This complaint is not about the valuer, its 
about NatWest  and NatWest did not carry out, or lead Miss H to believe it had carried out, 
the valuation.
Ive looked at the valuation carried out in this case in 2019. It says the property is a flat in a 
seven storey block. It makes no mention of cladding or any other issues. Its important to 
note that this is a valuation  not a homebuyers report or structural survey. It contains a 
disclaimer to this effect, and advises Miss H that she should not rely on it and should 
commission her own report if she wants advice on the property or purchase price.
This valuation was carried out in January 2019. It was only later, in December of that year, 
that the EWS1 process for assessing blocks with cladding came into force. And it was only 
shortly before the valuation, in late 2018, that government guidance on cladding beyond that 
of the specific type involved in the Grenfell Tower tragedy was issued.
At this time, then, the situation was still developing and there was no consistent central 
guidance on how blocks of flats should be valued, as there is now. This means that it was a 
matter for individual surveyors, relying on their professional knowledge and experience, to 
decide how to value properties like this. The valuer would have assessed the property 
against NatWests general lending criteria  but, as I say, there was not at this time (as there 
was later) detailed guidance on checking for cladding risk as part of the valuation process. 
Like most mortgage lenders, NatWest does not value properties itself and does not have the 
expertise to do so. It commissions qualified surveyors to do that  and its entitled to rely on 
the professional opinion of the surveyor in deciding whether to lend.
In this case, only a valuation was produced. Miss H decided not to obtain a homebuyers 
report or structural survey. 
The valuation did not identify cladding or any other issues with the property. And Im satisfied 
NatWest had no other way of knowing there might be a problem with the property either. The 
property fell within NatWests lending criteria at the time.It was reasonable for NatWest to decide that it was willing to lend based on the advice in the 
valuation, from a professionally qualified surveyor. And, as the valuation made clear, it was 
not advice to Miss H and not something she could rely on in making her own, separate, 
decision about whether or not to buy the property. If she wanted that advice, she would have 
needed to commission a homebuyers report or a survey  but she decided not to do that.
That means that NatWest is not responsible for Miss Hs decision to buy the flat or not. It 
warned her not to rely on the valuation, and it isnt responsible if she decided not to get her 
own report. As to whether the surveyor separately owed Miss H a duty of care in the content 
of the valuation, thats not for me to decide since this complaint is about NatWest and I have 
no jurisdiction over the surveyor. And if shes right about that, thats a matter for her to take 
up with the surveyor direct  not for NatWest to pursue on her behalf.
Its very unfortunate that theres turned out to be an issue with the property, and I can very 
much understand Miss Hs frustration that she may be asked to pay out a substantial sum of 
money for something thats not her fault. But it wasnt NatWests fault either, and it wasnt 
NatWests responsibility to advise her whether or not to buy the property or what defects it 
may or may not have. I do understand why Miss H feels its not fair that she will have to 
contribute to remedying the defects with the building  but Im afraid I dont think its fair to 
expect NatWest to cover the cost either. I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman