DRN-4326373
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement taken with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. 
What happened
In December 2021 Mr M acquired a used car, taking a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The car cost £11,995 and Mr M paid a deposit of £4,000. The car had a mileage 
recorded of 48,671 and was just over nine years old.
Unfortunately, Mr M said the car broke down in January 2022. He complained to Moneybarn 
about the situation.
The same month an independent inspection of the car took place, where the mileage was 
recorded as 49,435. This noted, in summary, that the engine was running poorly due to a 
misfire, with an engine management light (EML) illuminated. It said it believed there was an 
issue with cylinder 4.
Moneybarn issued its final response in March 2022. This said, in summary, that the car had 
been repaired free of charge. Moneybarn offered to reimburse Mr Ms monthly payments for 
January, February and March and pay him £175 for the distress caused.
In September 2022 Mr M says the car broke down again. A breakdown company attended 
Mr Ms home. The mileage was recorded as 56,671 and various fault codes were noted. 
Mr M says the diagnostic from the breakdown company showed the issue with the car was 
the same as when it previously broke down, and he complained to Moneybarn again.
In November 2022 Moneybarn issued its final response to Mr Ms second complaint. This 
said, in summary, that Moneybarn had attempted to arrange an independent inspection of 
the car, but as the MOT had expired this wasnt possible as it couldnt be driven. So it said it 
wasnt possible to say if Moneybarn were liable and it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M referred the complaint to our service. He reiterated that he believed the first and 
second issues were linked. He provided some more information to our service, including an 
estimate from a garage that said a compression test had been carried out.
Our investigator issued an opinion. This explained, in summary, that he didnt think there 
was enough to say the second breakdown was linked to the first. He said as Mr M had used 
the car for several months and had covered around 7,000 miles since the first repair, 
Moneybarn werent responsible.
Mr M got in touch and said he disagreed. He explained he was going to get an independnent 
inspection of the car, which was done in July 2023 and the mileage recorded as 56,816. 
This independent inspection said, in summary, that the engine produced an abnormal sound 
from the timing chain area when idling, with a knocking and tapping noise. It said there 
wasnt evidence to link the later issue with the earlier one.
Our investigator explained the inspection didnt change his opinion on the complaint.
Mr M remained unhappy. He said the garage who saw the car and the breakdown company 
both said the later failure was due to the same issue as the earlier fault. He then provided 
another diagnostic from the breakdown company dated August 2023. This again listed 
various fault codes.
Our investigator explained this still didnt change his opinion. Mr M continued to disagree, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr M made two complaints to Moneybarn. I should make it clear I am only considering the 
latest complaint, to which Moneybarn issued its final response in November 2022. This 
means I wont comment on the outcome nor the redress from the complaint addressed in 
March 2022. However, it is still important to consider the history of what happened with the 
car from this period, as this is relevant to the current complaint.
Mr M complains about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Mr Ms complaint about Moneybarn.
Mr M has sent in quite a large amount of evidence and raised lots of individual points. I may 
not comment on everything hes provided and told us. I want to reassure both parties that 
this doesnt mean I consider things unimportant, nor that I havent reviewed everything. 
While Ive carefully thought about all of the information on the case, Im going to focus on 
what I consider to be the crux of Mr Ms complaint and the key evidence. This reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulation 
and guidance. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This 
explains that under a contract to supply goods, the supplier (Moneybarn here) needed to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would consider it to be, taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors in this case to be, amongst others, the cars age, price and 
mileage. So, Ill consider that Mr Ms car was around nine years old and had covered just 
under 50,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person would not expect it to be in the same 
condition as a newer, less road worn one. But, I think they would expect it to be free from 
anything other than minor defects and would expect trouble free motoring for at least a short 
period.
It isnt in dispute here that Mr Ms car developed an issue in September 2022. This has been 
acknowledged by the breakdown company, a garage and by the independent inspection. So 
I dont think I need to go into much detail here, other than to say having reviewed the 
evidence Im also satisfied its clear the car developed a fault at this time.
Considering this fault in isolation, when it occurred Mr M had the car for around nine months, 
it had covered 8,000 miles since he got it and it was approaching ten years old. Given the time and mileage here, I think its unlikely the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply. And I think a reasonable person would consider it to have been durable.
But, this doesnt tell the whole story. Its also not in dispute that the car developed a fault 
much earlier, just a few weeks after Mr M got it. This was repaired, but Mr M says the later 
fault is directly linked to the earlier one. And he says hes provided evidence to show this.
If the latest faults can be shown to be linked to an earlier failed repair which occurred shortly 
after Mr M got the car, this may point to an underlying fault which was never put right  
meaning the car may not have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. So, this is the key 
question I need to answer  is the fault that occurred in September 2022 the same as, or 
linked to, the fault that occurred in January 2022?
Firstly I need to consider the earlier fault. While weve asked both parties for any information 
about this, there is still something of a lack of evidence. For instance, I dont have a copy of 
job sheets for the repairs carried out. But, I have seen an independent inspection from the 
time.
This explained:
the vehicles engine was running poorly in the form of a misfire
We were made aware that the repairers had done a compression test, although not in our 
presence . They stated the pressure per square in on cylinder 4 was approximately 30psi 
and the other cylinders were around the 180psi mark
we were able to identify a fault on the vehicle at the time of our inspection . This was that 
the vehicle did take a longer time to start of which would be deemed normal. The vehicles 
engine did rotate quicker whilst under cranking, indicating a loss of compression on a 
cylinder
So, Im satisfied the engine had an issue with a misfire and low compression on cylinder 
four. That being said, its important to note I have no information about what caused this.
Ive then considered the later information.
Mr M provided two diagnostics from a breakdown company. These give a list of 
diagnostic/fault codes, which do include misfires. But, there is no other detail. Neither gives 
any conclusions about what is wrong with the car, any commentary on the cause, or mention 
if any issue could be linked to the earlier repair. So Im not putting much weight on these 
pieces of evidence.
There are two other bits of evidence that contain some more detail. Mr M provided an 
estimate from a garage dated from February 2023 where the mileage was noted as 56,794. 
This noted a compression test was carried out and it said Confirmed Engine mechanical 
issue (not fuel injector related). The results from the compression test show a lower 
pressure on cylinder one, than on two to four.
Ive seen a follow up email to Mr M, where it further explained:
During the cylinder compression test, we confirmed constant low compression in cylinder 
no1. In order to find out the cause of the compression loss, the engine needs to be removed 
and stripped to pieces. A partial compression loss, like this, could be related to a piston 
crack, compression ring crack, camshaft issue, valve issue etc. A newly rebuilt engine 
should not have these issues.Ive then considered the independent inspection from July 2023.
This report explained a noise was coming from the timing chain area. It goes on to say:
The fault can be related to a multitude of issues which develop in the engine, including 
valve gear wear, piston and bore damage/wear, big end and main bearing defects. Often the 
probable causes for these conditions are normal wear and tear, overheating or lubrication 
faults.
there was no evidence to directly link the current failure under investigation to the 
previous failure (emphasis added by myself)
At this stage we are unable to confirm any faults that could have been said to be present at 
purchase due to the mileage covered
Ive very carefully thought about all of this, along with what Mr M said. Having done so, I 
havent been shown enough to persuade me its most likely the fault that later occurred is the 
same as previously repaired. And, the independent inspection is very clear in its conclusion 
that there is no evidence the later fault is directly linked to the previous failure. I havent been 
presented with anything that makes me question the validity of this conclusion.
It follows that Im satisfied its most likely the later issue the car had occurred due to wear 
and tear, rather than being linked to an earlier issue. And, as earlier explained, I think its 
most likely this fault was not present or developing at the point of supply. I also think a 
reasonable person would consider the car to have been durable.
Thinking about everything, Im satisfied that the fault that occurred in September 2022 does 
not mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
I want to again reassure Mr M that Ive carefully considered all of his other points and all of 
the evidence on the complaint. But this doesnt change my opinion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman