DRN-3170973
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund a payment he made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr H was completing on a house he had purchased. Mr H had been in 
regular contact with his solicitors and was trying to get the transaction completed as soon as 
possible. Mr H had arranged insurance on the new property and sent the documents and 
evidence of insurance through to his solicitor. The solicitor responded saying the cover 
wasnt sufficient and that Mr H had to increase the insurance cover. Mr H arranged this, then 
emailed the solicitor with the new documentation. Mr H asked for and was provided with an 
email confirming the deposit he needed to pay, along with bank details to enable the 
payment.
Mr H made two separate payments to the solicitors for the deposit. One payment was made 
from another bank account he held and a second payment was made from his HSBC 
account for £40,000 which this complaint is about. The HSBC payment was made in branch.
Mr H contacted his solicitors to see if theyd received the money  and they advised they 
hadnt. At which time Mr H became aware hed fallen victim to a scam. Fraudsters had 
intercepted his emails with his solicitor and provided details for a bank account they 
controlled.
Mr H immediately got in touch with HSBC (and the other bank) to report the fraud. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC say they gave Mr H an effective warning which he ignored and proceeded with the 
payment anyway. On that basis, they declined to refund Mr H.
Mr H wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and upheld it, recommending that HSBC refund 
Mr H under the CRM code. The investigator was unable to say that HSBC had provided an 
effective warning  as they werent provided with a copy of the exact warning Mr H was 
given. And felt Mr H had a reasonable basis to believe that he was paying the legitimate 
solicitors.
HSBC didnt respond to the investigators view, so the case was passed to me for review.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from HSBC to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that under the terms of the CRM code HSBC 
shouldve refunded the money Mr H lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions 
to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Did HSBC give an effective warning?
The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a 
minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.
Im not satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were met, because 
while HSBC have provided us with a document that sets out different warning scenarios, it 
hasnt given us the specific warning it says Mr H was given. Therefore, Im not satisfied that 
HSBC have evidenced that an effective warning was given, despite having the opportunity to 
do so. 
Did Mr H have a reasonable basis for belief?
A bank might decline a refund if it can be demonstrated that the customer made the
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
HSBC felt there were warning signs that the email Mr H received wasnt from his genuine 
solicitor, and these shouldve prompted Mr H to do some checks before he made the 
payment. On this basis, they felt Mr H didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was 
paying his solicitor, or that the person he was liaising with was legitimate.Having reviewed the emails that Mr H got from the fraudster, I dont agree. The change in 
the spelling of the solicitors email address is not noticeable unless youre specifically looking 
for it. The change is only two letters in the middle of a word which have been changed 
around. It took me a few minutes to pick up the change, and I was purposefully comparing 
the two email addresses. It isnt obvious. 
HSBC also referred to the email not having the company details at the bottom of the 
message. However, the email was ended with the name of the person Mr H had been 
dealing with, and Im not persuaded that missing off the footer off the email is an obvious 
sign that the email was fraudulent in this case. The email continued on the conversation 
chain that Mr H had been having with the genuine solicitor with regards to the completion of 
the purchase and the genuine solicitors email did have the footer earlier in the chain. Also, 
while there are some spacing issues in the content of the email, these again arent so 
obvious that I wouldve expected Mr H to be concerned. So, having considered everything, 
Im not satisfied that there were red flags in the email whereby I wouldve expected Mr H to 
complete additional checks before making the payment.
What if the payee name didnt match the name on the bank account Mr H was paying?
HSBC raised concerns that Mr H was told they couldnt check that the beneficiary name 
matched the payment details. Whereas, Mr H says he was told that the details matched. 
There is no clear record of exactly what was said, but Im satisfied that even if HSBC had 
said they couldnt check the beneficiary name, it wouldnt change the answer Ive reached. I 
say this because Mr H was confident that he received the email and bank account 
information from his genuine solicitor, so he had no concerns that he might be paying the 
funds to any account other than that of his solicitor. Also, its important to note that not being 
able to check the beneficiary name isnt the same as checking and the beneficiary name not 
matching the details on Mr Hs payment instructions  which isnt what happened in this 
case. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that HSBC have evidenced that Mr H was given an effective 
warning that he ignored. Im also satisfied that Mr H had a reasonable basis to believe that 
he was making his payment to the legitimate solicitor. Therefore, HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably refund the money Mr H lost and pay interest on his lost use of the funds at 8% 
simple interest.
Putting things right
To put things right HSBC UK Bank PLC should:
Refund Mr H the £40,000 he lost to the scam;
Pay interest on the total loss at 8% per year from the date they declined his claim 
under the CRM code until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman