DRN-3964033
The complaint
Mr A complains PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) defaulted his account after he 
was unable to make payments.
What happened
Mr A says his PayPal balance was showing that he didnt owe any money and he was also 
unable to make payments through the app. This resulted in his account being defaulted and 
handed off to a third-party debt collection agency. So, Mr A logged a complaint with PayPal. 
PayPal looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. PayPal said that as Mr A had missed 
payments three months in a row, it defaulted his account. PayPal went on to say that they 
had only received one email from Mr A relating to the problems he said he was having 
making a payment and this was around ten months after the account defaulted. 
Mr A remained unhappy with PayPals decision, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said that Mr A had been making payments, then stopped. She went on to say 
they PayPal had provided evidence it has sent payment reminders by email each month and 
a default notice by post. Although Mr A says he didnt get the emails or letter, our 
Investigator found it was most likely they were sent and received. Our investigator also found 
that Mr A managed to make payments again when the account was defaulted but they didnt 
cover what was owed. 
As Mr A remained unhappy, the complaints been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
I want to clarify that I've considered Mr As detailed submissions about what happened. 
However, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Although Mr A has said a number of times that his online balance was showing as zero, Im 
satisfied Mr A wouldve been aware he had a balance. I say this as he had spent the money 
and wouldve been aware he hadnt paid the full amount back. 
Im also satisfied that Mr A wouldve been aware he needed to make a monthly payment 
towards the balance as this is what the terms of his credit agreement state. 
PayPal have supplied evidence that they emailed Mr A each month that he missed a 
payment. This is in addition to a monthly email reminding Mr A that he needed to make a 
payment. Im satisfied they were sent to the correct email address, and more likely than not 
got to Mr As account. PayPal have also sent us evidence they posted a default letter to Mr 
As home address. As with the emails, the address was correct, and when things are 
addressed correctly, they normally get to their destination. PayPal didnt get any bounce 
back from the emails it sent, and Mr A also hasnt supplied any evidence of postal issues at 
the time the letter was sent. 
Having said that, even if there was a possibility that none of the communication found its 
way to Mr A, which Ive explained above I find highly unlikely, Ive seen no evidence of the 
issues Mr A says he was having with trying to make payments. 
Mr A also hasnt supplied any evidence that he tried calling PayPal each month to make a 
payment or that he attempted to set up a direct debit to take at least the minimum payments. 
PayPal did contact Mr A by telephone before they defaulted the account. Mr A then made a 
payment but it was some way off covering the amount he needed to bring the account back 
up straight. When Mr A spoke to PayPal, the advisor made a note on the system to say Mr A 
was aware of the pending default. I find this note persuasive as it was made at the time of 
the call and the purpose of the phone call was to make Mr A aware of the default. As PayPal 
dont usually call account holders to take a payment if their account is up straight, I find it 
more likely than not that the sole purpose of the call was to notify Mr A of the status of the 
account and the possibility of the default.  
When Mr A made the payment six days before the default was applied, he only paid £40 
towards the debt. Im satisfied given he had missed three months worth of payments, that 
Mr A shouldve known this wasnt enough to clear the arrears or prevent the account 
defaulting.
Mr A has supplied information from the PayPal website that shows others have had various 
issues with their accounts and payments. Mr A has also sent our service emails from PayPal 
advising that he hasnt used the credit in some time. I understand why Mr A has sent this 
information, but unfortunately it doesnt change my decision. We asses complaints based on 
the individual circumstances and merits of the issue raised. So, the issues others may have 
had with their account wouldnt have any influence over the complaint Ive investigated or the 
outcome Ive reached. The marketing emails Mr A received also suggest he hadnt spent on 
his account recently, not that there wasnt any outstanding debt. 
I understand Mr A says he has two defaults on his account, one from PayPal and one from 
the third-party debt collection agency. As Im only looking at a complaint against PayPal, I 
can only check that the default it has applied was logged correctly, and Ive found it has 
been. Any complaint about the second default will need to be taken up with the debt 
collection agency. 
In summary, Im satisfied PayPal fulfilled its obligation to make Mr A aware of what he owed. 
I also havent seen any evidence to show Mr A couldnt have made payments or at a 
minimum brought his account up straight before the account was defaulted. So, I dont find it 
unfair or against the terms of its User Agreement when PayPal registered a default against 
Mr As credit record.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman