DRN-3719201
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a claim under 
her home emergency policy.
What happened
On 31 December 2021 Miss C contacted IPA to report a leak from her en-suite bathroom. 
Water was dripping through the ceiling to the downstairs bathroom causing the lights to 
flicker. IPA instructed engineers who attended the same day and found a leak from a waste 
pipe. Miss C was told that someone would attend to deal with the blockage.
A few days later Miss C chased IPA for progress. IPA say that they then tried to contact Miss 
C but without success. On 17 January 2022 Miss C telephoned IPA to report that her shower 
was still blocked. IPA instructed a different engineer who said there was no blockage but that 
a plumber needed to sort out poorly fitting pipework. Engineers attended again and advised 
that there was a blockage and that this would need to be sorted out before any repairs. 
On 27 January 2022 another engineer attended to unblock the shower but said the shower 
needed to be removed first. Miss C removed the shower herself which also resulted in 
removing some of the tiling. A senior drainage engineer then attended and cleared the 
blockage from an external access point. He didnt think it had been necessary for the shower 
tray to be removed. The following day a plumber carried out a full leak survey and 
questioned why trace and access was advised and why poor workmanship had not been 
identified. 
Once the blockage was resolved Miss C arranged for a plumber to attend and replace the 
shower and tiling. She paid £850 for the shower tray, £450 for retiling and £351 for tiles. She 
asked IPA to refund the full cost. 
Miss C wasnt happy with the service shed received and complained about the lack of 
communication, the length of time taken to resolve the leak, the number of visits she had 
from engineers, and that she was misled about the need for removal of the shower tray.
IPA accepted that one of their engineers told Miss C to remove the shower tray but said this 
was only advisory. As they didnt carry out the removal, they were not responsible for the full 
reinstatement works. They paid £350 towards replacing the shower tray. IPA agreed that 
their service was below standard and paid Miss C £300 compensation. Miss C wasnt happy 
with IPAs offer and referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said that as IPA had wrongly advised Miss C to remove the shower, that 
they should bear the cost of putting right the damage  and repairing the damage to the 
downstairs ceiling. He also thought that IPAs service had been poor and that it should pay a 
further £300 compensation on top of the £150 it had already offered, making a total of £450.
Miss C accepted our investigators view. IPA offered Miss C a further £500 which Miss C 
didnt accept. IPA asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. They didnt think 
they should be held solely responsible for the damage caused by removing the shower tray. 
They said that if they had carried out the trace and access, they would have asked Miss C to 
sign a disclaimer saying that they wouldnt have been responsible for reinstatement works. 
They also said that a buildings insurance claim should have been made to deal with the 
damage to the ceiling, which was partly caused by the original leak.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shower
Having looked at all the notes and reports from the engineers, there was clearly some 
confusion about the leak and what was required to repair it. IPA accept that Miss C was 
advised by their engineer to remove the shower but say that this was reasonable to find the 
leak. They say that it was merely a suggestion and couldnt guarantee to solve the problem. 
However, the engineers notes suggest that removal of the shower was required to enable 
the engineer to gain access to the wastepipe to clear the blockage, rather than to find the 
leak. Its also clear from the senior engineers report that removal of the shower had been 
unnecessary. I therefore think that it was mistake for Miss C to have been advised that the 
shower needed removing. 
IPA also say that if they had carried out removal of the shower, they would have asked Miss 
C to sign a disclaimer and they dont think she should be in a better position arranging the 
work herself. However, IPA didnt carry out the work  Miss C did this herself on their advice 
 and she wasnt advised that refitting costs would not be covered.
I think its therefore reasonable for IPA to put Miss C back into the position she would have 
been in but for their mistake and I require them to pay Miss C the costs of refitting the 
shower, less the £350 if this has already been paid. They should also pay interest from the 
date Miss C made payment to the date that IPA pay the sum to her. I think interest is fair as 
Miss C has been without the use of this money. 
Ceiling 
IPA say that the cost of repairing the ceiling should be covered under Miss Cs building 
insurance as Miss C reported a degree of damage when she first notified them of the leak. 
Ive listened to Miss Cs call to IPA and the only damage that is reported is a wet patch on 
the ceiling of her downstairs bathroom. Whilst I accept that some damage might have 
occurred initially, I think this was minimal and was made worse as the leak was not dealt 
with quickly. I dont therefore think it fair to expect Miss C to now make a claim on her 
buildings insurance as this is likely to impact the cost of any future home insurance.
I think it fair that IPA either repair the damage to the ceiling or pay Miss C the cost so she 
can arrange for the repairs herself.
Service
IPA accept that their service to Miss C fell below standard and offered compensation. Ive 
read IPAs notes and reports of the work carried out by their engineers. There seems to be a 
lot of confusion from IPA staff and their engineers about what is and isnt covered under their 
home emergency policy. This resulted in poor communication with Miss C. She was given 
incorrect and conflicting advice about the leak and how it should be resolved and wasnt kept 
properly updated about progress.Miss C found IPA difficult to contact and the problems with her claim went on for weeks with 
numerous home visits. She had a young baby and was extremely worried about the water 
dripping through the ceiling and the lights flickering. She was unable to use the upstairs 
shower as it was under repair or the downstairs bathroom because of the dripping water. 
She therefore drove to a family members house to use their facilities. I accept that this must 
have been a very difficult time for Miss C and think that an award of £450 compensation 
fairly reflects Miss Cs distress and inconvenience.
There has been some confusion about the amount of compensation IPA have offered. 
Theyve now confirmed that Miss C has been paid £300. Our investigator was under the 
impression that IPA had paid £150 and so awarded additional compensation of £300, 
making a total of £450. Taking all the above into account I agree with our investigator that a 
total of £450 is fair to reflect Miss Cs distress and inconvenience  less any amount that has 
already been paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
1. refund the cost of refitting the upstairs shower to Miss C upon production of evidence 
of the costs - less any sum already paid - plus interest at 8% from the date that Miss 
C made payment to the date that IPA make payment to her; 
2. arrange for the repairs to the downstairs bathroom ceiling  or pay Miss C the cost of 
the repairs so that she can carry these out herself; and
3. pay Miss C a total of £450 compensation for distress and inconvenience  less any 
compensation already paid.
If Inter Partner Assistance SA consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest, they should tell Miss C how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Miss C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman