DRN-3591701
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited purchasing a debt 
that was included in a bankruptcy order, and reporting it on his credit file.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a consumer credit debt that was defaulted on 3 April 2018, the 
same day that Mr W entered into a bankruptcy order. The account was then sold to Cabot in 
December 2018.
Cabot sent Mr W a notice of assignment to let him know they now owned the account, and to 
ask him for details of his insolvency so that they could administer things correctly. Mr W then 
gave them those details, and Cabot updated things on their end. Then after Cabot were told 
Mr W had been discharged, they marked his default as partially satisfied.
Mr W has complained about Cabot purchasing the account, about them contacting him, and 
about them reporting the default on his credit file. He would like the default to be removed, 
and £5,000 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and explained that Cabot were allowed to 
buy the account, and that it was reasonable to contact Mr W to update him and get the 
details for his insolvency. They explained that Cabot were required to continue reporting 
things on Mr Ws credit file, and that the entry was correct other than the default date  
which should be 3 April 2018 rather than the 30 April 2018 they were reporting.
Cabot agreed to amend the default date. Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review things 
afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Just for clarity: in this complaint I can only consider what Cabot did. I cant consider the 
original lenders actions in this decision, such as when the original lender defaulted the 
account or sold it to Cabot. I understand that Mr W has made a separate complaint against 
the original lender.
Turning to Cabot: its normal for businesses to buy debts. And there was nothing which 
prevented Cabot from buying this one, even though Mr W was under a bankruptcy order.
Cabot have provided the relevant notice of assignment, where the original lender confirmed 
theyd sold the account to Cabot. This shows that Cabot now own the account. I understand 
Mr Ws point of view when he says his contract was initially with the original lender, rather 
than Cabot. But as above, debts can and do get sold on, and this was a legitimate sale. That 
means that Cabot do indeed now own the account, and not the original lender anymore.
Now that Cabot own the account, theyre entitled to contact Mr W about it where relevant. 
And it was most relevant for them to let him know that they were the new owners. They also 
needed to get the details for his insolvency. So I think it was reasonable that they contacted 
him. I have not found anything excessive or unreasonable in Cabots correspondence.
Similarly, now that Cabot own the account, theyre responsible for reporting it on Mr Ws 
credit file. The default that theyre reporting is not a new or additional default  it is a 
continuation of the same default that the original lender registered.
I do understand that Mr W would much prefer for the account to be removed from his credit 
file entirely. But thats not something Cabot have to do. Even though Mr W successfully went 
through a bankruptcy and was discharged, his debts did not cease to exist. Its just that his 
creditors cant take action to recover those debts anymore.
Mr Ws credit file is supposed to be an accurate reflection of what actually happened with his 
accounts. Since this account did not disappear, its correct that Cabot have not removed it 
from Mr Ws credit file. Since Mr W went insolvent and the original lender defaulted the 
account, it is correct that Cabot have continued to report that default. And since Mr W was 
discharged from his bankruptcy, its correct that Cabot marked the default as partially 
satisfied  which reflects that the debt is no longer outstanding, and that it was not paid off in 
full but written off instead. Thats a standard way to report accounts that were included in an 
insolvency.
The only thing I can see that Cabot got wrong is that they reported the default date as 
30 April 2018 instead of 3 April 2018. And this wont have had any significant material effect 
on Mr W, not least since the default wasnt due to fall off his file until 2024 anyway. I can see 
that, following our investigators assessment, Cabot agreed to amend the default date  this 
should be showing on Mr Ws credit file now. I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I direct Cabot Credit Management Group Limited to correct Mr Ws 
default date to 3 April 2018, if theyve not done so already. I do not make any other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman