DRN-2972352
The complaint
Mr C is seeking to recover £307,776 from Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale), which he 
lost from his account as the result of a third-party scam. 
Clydesdale says it is not liable for the loss because Mr C unwittingly authorised the 
payment himself  and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to 
recoup the money from the receiving bank.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr C fell victim to a scam. Both Clydesdale and Mr C are aware of the 
circumstances surrounding this complaint, so I wont repeat them in full here. But briefly, 
both parties accept that Mr C was contacted by a fraudster, who had intercepted emails 
between Mr C and his genuine solicitor, regarding the payment of a deposit for a house 
purchase. 
Mr C and his partner Ms C had decided to move to a more rural area and rent out their 
current property. They found a property to buy, and had their offer accepted about three 
months prior to the scam. They had agreed they wouldnt exchange until January 2020 at 
the sellers request. They were in regular contact with their solicitors during this process, 
meeting a couple of times in person and speaking a few times over the phone - but most 
of their communication took place over email. 
In December 2019, Ms C and Mr C received an email from what appeared to be their 
solicitor asking when they would be transferring the funds. They agreed to send them 
over, were provided with account details and agreed to let their solicitor know when they 
had made the payment. Mr C attended a branch to make a CHAPS payment of £307,776 
to the solicitors. He said he was asked what the transfer was for, who it was going to, the 
amount and the account details. Mr C said he told them the name and location of his 
solicitor and handed the branch staff a piece of paper which included the name of the 
solicitor, the amount and the account details that hed copied down from the email. The 
branch staff filled in a CHAPS form and left their position to get authorisation for the 
payment from their superior due to the large sum of money involved. There was a take 
five to stop fraud section on the form. Mr C said he signed off this section as he wouldnt 
have been in the bank if he thought he was being defrauded, but that he wasnt asked any 
further questions nor was there any detailed conversation about fraud and scams. He was 
told hed receive a receipt later in the day. He then emailed who he thought was the 
solicitor and said that he had transferred the funds, and got a response thanking him for 
the payment. 
Unfortunately, unbeknownst to Mr C, he had actually been corresponding with a fraudster 
who had been able to hack into the emails between him and his solicitor. The email 
address he was corresponding with appeared to be that of their solicitor, but there was a 
subtle difference in that there was an additional letter in the solicitor firm name within the 
email address. Mr C and Ms C exchanged emails with both the fraudster and the genuine 
solicitor during this time, not noticing that they were emailing two slightly different email 
addresses. There were some delays in their communication with the real solicitor, and so 
the scam didnt come to light until early in January 2020 when the real solicitor confirmed 
they had not received the funds. The solicitor later confirmed that the emails containing 
the payment instructions and account details werent sent from their firm. Mr C contacted 
Clydesdale and the police  though the perpetrator has not been apprehended at this 
time. 
Mr C said he went into branch in January and spoke to the branch management. He said 
they appeared visibly shocked and admitted they were surprised that neither of the branch 
staff involved in processing the payment flagged up anything suspicious. He said this was 
because the account name and the name of the solicitors were completely different. He 
said that the branch management said they should have asked further questions about the 
discrepancy between the names, and more generally about the payment, and went so far 
as to describe the kind of questions they would have asked. 
Mr C said he emailed the manager hed met in branch in January to ask for a copy of the 
notes from their meeting and was told that they were compiling them into a complaint 
form. When Mr C didnt hear anything further, he contacted a new solicitor who 
corresponded with Clydesdale and solicitors acting on their behalf. There was a fairly 
comprehensive back and forth between the solicitors, which included legal arguments and 
caselaw which I have considered but I wont repeat in full here. But in summary, Mr C, 
through the new solicitors, complained that: 
Clydesdale should have flagged that the payment was suspicious and done further 
checks  they had not queried the discrepancy between the solicitors name and the 
account name, and the payment was of such a substantial size that it should have 
prompted further checks and security measures; 
Clydesdale failed to carry out basic checks, or offer any advice or warnings about the 
risk of fraud and scams and instead relied on a section of the form entitled take five 
for fraud which gave general warnings about fraud that were not specific to this 
particular type of scam; 
Had they completed further checks and educated Mr C, the scam could have been 
revealed and the loss prevented; 
Clydesdale hadnt complied with their obligations as outlined by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) regarding paying due regard to the interests of their 
customers, treating them fairly, and taking reasonable care in dealing with 
transactions; 
Clydesdale failed to meet the standards they publicly purported to meet in relation to 
recognising and preventing potential scams, and the recovery of funds following a 
scam; 
Clydesdale, through their solicitors, said: 
They cannot be held liable for carrying out their legal duty to process a valid 
transaction, authorised by Mr C with the details he provided; 
They had made the required fraud prevention and anti-money laundering checks 
before proceeding to process the transaction; 
Mr C reviewed the form and signed it to authorise the payment, and in addition 
signed the take five for fraud warning confirming that he had been alerted to the 
possibility of fraud and was content to proceed with the payment; 
They were entitled to assume that Mr C provided them with the correct beneficiary 
account details. They had not been required to verify beneficiary names at the time of 
the payment, and the discrepancy did not appear to cause Mr C any concern when 
he was provided it by the fraudster, handed it over in branch, or signed it off on the 
CHAPS form; 
Mr Cs remedy was not against them, but instead against the fraudsters. The bank trusted that the relevant authorities were taking all possible steps to pursue the 
criminals. They also trusted that Mr Cs solicitors were advising him on the potential 
civil recovery methods including tracing of the funds;
They were not signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code at 
the time of the transaction, so it does not apply in this case. But they did follow the 
UK Finance Best Practice Standards for APP scams and complied with all of their 
legal and regulatory requirements in Mr Cs case;  
The terms and conditions of the CHAPS payment and Mr Cs account expressly 
provide that he would be solely responsible for the accuracy of the information 
including the beneficiary account name, number and sort code. The terms and 
conditions also stated that they would not be liable for any loss he or the beneficiary 
suffered as a result of inaccurate information being given on the request; 
Even if Clydesdale was given the solicitors name, which they do not accept, they did 
everything required of them and are not be responsible for any of his losses; 
Even if Clydesdale had not done everything required of it, which was not accepted, 
they would be resolved of liability due to the CHAPS terms and clauses, and current 
account terms and conditions.
After the solicitors failed to reach an agreement, Mr C came to our service. Our investigator 
reviewed what happened. They recommended that the complaint be upheld because: 
The payment was unusual and out of character for Mr Cs account, when considering 
the usual account activity and the proportion of the available funds that it used; 
Clydesdale should have recognised the risk of fraud and should have intervened by 
making further enquiries about the payment before processing it; 
Had Clydesdale asked Mr C further questions about the payment details and 
educated him about this prevalent type of scam, it is most likely that the scam would 
have been uncovered and the payment to the scammer would not have gone ahead. 
So, they asked Clydesdale to refund the £307,776 and pay 8% simple interest on this sum 
from the date the funds debited Mr Cs account until the date of the settlement. 
Clydesdale did not agree. They said: 
The finding was made in reliance upon a factual error  namely that Mr C had told 
them the name of the solicitors firm the payment was meant to be going to. 
That our investigators recommendations were at odds with the relevant law in this 
area. They said banks have a duty to process the payment instructions of its 
customers. And there was no duty for a bank to prevent APP fraud against its 
customer. They said that banks are not required to refund payments to their 
customers where the payment instructions themselves were valid, but the customer 
has been provided with fraudulent details by a third party. Whilst it acknowledges it 
has a duty to exercise reasonable care and skill in doing so, this doesnt extend to 
having to question a customers instructions or to assume liability where it followed 
their customers payment instructions. To support its conclusions, it pointed to the 
judgment set down in the case of Philipp v Barclays.
Even if they had verified the payee account details the outcome would be the same  
Mr C knew the name of the account he intended to pay didnt match the name of the 
solicitor, and they sent the funds to the account he requested. 
They queried why Mr C had decided to abandon his legal claim in favour of raising a 
complaint with our service, after such a long time. Had he been so convinced that the bank were in some way culpable for the loss, they would have expected the 
complaint to have been raised against them at the time of the loss not many months 
later. They said it appeared that the security breach had happened on Mr Cs emails 
rather than the solicitors, and so they had probably been told to pursue Clydesdale 
over their solicitors as this would have little chance of a successful claim. 
They didnt agree the payment was unusual  a large one-off payment for the event 
of a house purchase is something their branch staff would encounter on a regular 
basis. 
They also said they had seen CCTV from the time the payment was made, and in it 
Mr C appears to be quite disengaged with the process and spends a lot of time on 
his phone. The teller would have gone over the payee details and the fraud warning 
with him. They believe the most likely scenario was that Mr C hadnt told them the 
solicitors name, and simply asked for a payment to be given to the account details 
he provided. They felt the average person dealing with such a significant financial 
commitment as a house purchase would have queried the discrepancy between their 
name and the account name before proceeding with a payment. 
They dont believe further questioning would have revealed the scam to Mr C, as he 
was of no doubt about the payee details when he was at branch on that day. He 
believed he was following instructions provided to him, that had been communicated 
to him via an established and trusted method by a trusted sender. 
Our investigators opinion remained the same. They said that even if they were to accept 
that Mr C had not mentioned his solicitors name at the time of the payment to the fraudsters, 
they would still recommend the complaint be upheld. This was because they would still 
expect Clydesdale to ask further questions around what was clearly an unusually large 
payment. They remained of the opinion that further questioning would have allowed for the 
scam to have been discovered, thus preventing Mr Cs loss. As no agreement could be 
reached, it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the 
circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
It is common ground that Mr C authorised the payment that is now the subject of this 
complaint, even though he did so as the result of being deceived by fraudsters. In broad 
terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. So, the starting position is 
that Mr C would be held liable for the transaction.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I want to stress that I am aware of the case of Philipp v Barclays that Clydesdale has 
directed me to. And notwithstanding what the judge said, we have a duty to resolve 
complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators' rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And 
Im satisfied given what Ive set out above, that there are certain scenarios in which 
Clydesdale should ask questions about a payment before it processes it on its customers 
behalf  it should be on the look-out for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed Mr Cs account activity prior to the fraud, I agree with our investigator 
that the payment was unusual and out of character for Mr Cs account. There were no 
comparable payments in terms of the size of the payment. I understand that Clydesdale 
argue that a large one off payment for the event of a house purchase is something their 
branch staff would encounter on a regular basis  but this does not negate the fact that 
the payment was unusual and out of character for Mr Cs account. Given that I am 
satisfied that this payment was unusual and out of character, I think Clydesdale ought to 
have done more than confirmed what the payment was for, who it was going to, and 
reviewed the take five for fraud section on the CHAPS form. They needed to satisfy 
themselves that Mr C was not at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
And so Im satisfied Clydesdale ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good 
practice, to have done more here - I think they ought to have made enquiries about the 
purpose of, and the circumstances leading up to, the payment before they processed it. 
Im satisfied that if Clydesdale had questioned Mr C in this particular case, the scam would 
have been revealed and prevented. Ill explain why.
Much of what happened in branch on the day in question is agreed between both parties  
with the notable exception of whether Mr C told them the name of his solicitors and where 
they were based. But it is agreed that Mr C explained he was buying a property, and the 
funds were being paid to his solicitors in relation to this. It is agreed that the form was 
completed, and Mr C signed the form, including the take five for fraud section. There may 
have been a conversation generally about fraud and scams at this point. But I think it is 
most likely that the conversation didnt cover the type of scam Mr C fell victim to. 
Mr C fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common  an email intercept scam. And 
its a type of scam Im satisfied Clydesdale ought to have been aware of at the time. Had 
Clydesdale questioned Mr C further, he would most likely have told them he was making 
the payment at the request of his solicitor. At this point, being aware of the prevalence of 
this type of scam and its common characteristics, Clydesdale would have had the 
opportunity to question him further.
A particularly common feature of this type of scam is that a customer will receive an email 
that appears to be from the genuine business they are in contact with. This email will 
contain payment details which will, unbeknownst to the customer, direct the payment to a 
fraudulent account.
This is a common scam with very particular characteristics, and Im satisfied Clydesdale 
ought fairly and reasonably to have asked Mr C how the payment details had been 
communicated to him. He would have told Clydesdale they had been sent to him by their 
solicitor, by email. Clydesdale could then have educated him about this type of scam and 
its key characteristics. Clydesdale could have asked Mr C to check before continuing with the transfer - they couldve advised him to contact his solicitor using an established 
contact number, to confirm the account details were correct. Had Clydesdale done so, Im 
persuaded that this would likely have produced some doubt in Mr Cs mind that the 
payment details may not be legitimate, and he would have contacted his solicitor before 
proceeding with the payment. After all, this was a significant amount of money and Mr C 
may not have been aware previously that this type of scam was even possible. Im 
persuaded that once informed of this, he would have taken some steps to verify the 
account details provided to him  had Mr C done so, Im persuaded that the scam would 
have been prevented and no loss occurred.
In summary, Im persuaded Clydesdale ought fairly and reasonably to have encouraged 
Mr C to confirm the account details hed been sent. His circumstances had the hallmarks 
of a well-known scam. And Clydesdale should have explained the risks of scams involving 
the interception, altering and hacking of emails which would have prompted further action 
from him. In other words, if Clydesdale had carried out further or better questioning, it 
seems probable that Mr C would have contacted his solicitor by phone just to make sure 
everything was as it should be. At this point, the scam would have come to light. The fraud 
would have failed; and he would not have lost the money he sent to the fraudsters. 
There has been much said by both parties on the subject of whether Mr C told Clydesdale 
the name of his solicitors, and if he did, why Clydesdale didnt recognise this as a sign that 
Mr C was at risk of fraud. For completeness Id like to deal with this briefly. Whether Mr C 
told Clydesdale the name of the solicitors in the meeting or not, the outcome of this case 
remains unchanged. The payment should have flagged as unusual and out of character 
regardless of this and prompted further questioning. 
I have also considered whether Mr C should bear some responsibility for his loss. 
However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, Mr C was 
still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing  he thought he 
was making a legitimate payment to his solicitor in order to purchase property. I am 
satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr C was the unwitting 
and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial 
matters; Mr C was the layperson.
Finally, Ive thought about Clydesdales actions when Mr C told them in January 2020 that 
hed fallen victim to a scam. Unfortunately, whilst the payment was made in December 
2019, the scam did not come to light until 6 January 2020. When Mr C reported the scam, 
Clydesdale acted quickly and contacted the receiving bank the same day. They were told 
that negligible funds remained in the account, but the receiving bank said they would 
chase the second-generation funds. Clydesdale chased the receiving bank on 6 March 
2020, and at this time no funds were able to be recovered from the receiving bank. I am 
satisfied that Clydesdale did what they could here  there was nothing further Clydesdale 
could have done to recover the funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc should refund £307,776 to Mr C. It should 
also pay simple interest on that sum at 8% per annum from the date of the loss to the date 
of the refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman