DRN-3613854
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is about their private medical insurance policy with BUPA 
Insurance Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But as a summary, Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the following:
Key features of the policy have been reduced and altered over the years  since 
2006 when they took out the policy. These are the removal of complete freedom of 
choice concerning specialists and hospitals, guaranteed renewal of policy for life, and 
premium table no longer being published in the product literature.
Improper process followed by Bupa, because it didnt give Mr and Mrs L direct 
information about the changes.
Poor service on the new Bupa platform after the policy administration was transferred 
to the UK office.
As a resolution to the complaint, Mr and Mrs L want Bupa to do the following:
Reinstate the key features of the plan as per the original product purchased. This 
includes changing the product specific language and sending the premium table to all 
policyholders as standard.
Bupa to commit to not changing the key features in the future and continue to make 
these public (freedom of choice, guaranteed renewal and premium table). And if 
Bupa cancels the product, any replacement should include the key features.
Sanction to be handed down to Bupa for the improper process.
Mr and Mrs L believe the issues with service will be resolved by Bupa taking the 
above steps, as this should result in a transparent process and administration of the 
policy.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, Bupa has said the following:
The policy will continue to have guaranteed renewability as per the policy terms and 
conditions, regardless of the policyholders age or state of health. This means Bupa 
cant cancel the policy without offering policyholders an equivalent product.
Mr and Mrs L still have the choice to see any specialist or use any hospital they 
wished, and pre-authorisation was only required for treatment in the USA.
There have been no changes to how the policy premium is calculated, and there 
wont be any premium increases related to age after the policyholder turns 60.
It cant guarantee that benefits will always remain the same, as the terms and 
conditions are subject to change. But Bupa will let Mr and Mrs L know of any 
changes with prior notice, so they can make an informed decision about continuing 
their cover.
Bupa doesnt include a premium table for policies administered in the UK, but it can 
send one to policyholders upon request.
Bupa offered Mr and Mrs L £100 for the distress and inconvenience for the issues 
caused due to migrating the policy to an UK platform.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, he didnt think 
Bupa had acted unfairly or unreasonably. He also explained its not for our service to tell a 
business how a policy should be worded or to punish a business.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators findings. Fundamentally, they say that Bupa 
has drastically changed the policy. As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bupa has said that Mr and Mrs L are on Guaranteed Lifetime Renewal policy, which means 
it cant make changes to the policy that would be to the policyholders detriment. Bupa says 
the changes it has made have been improvements and clarifications. And based on what 
Ive seen, I think its likely that Bupa did notify Mr and Mrs L of these changes during annual 
renewals.
I dont think that the specific issues Mr and Mrs L have raised are as a result of changes in 
their contract with Bupa. For example, the policy terms around renewal are the same in 2021 
as they were in 2006. And the provision of a premium table was never part of the contract. 
The policy terms are also clear that Bupa can only cancel the policy if it offers an equivalent 
one instead.
I also cant see that the contractual terms limit Mr and Mrs Ls choice of specialists or 
hospitals. For example, Bupa has explained that the updated guidance for claims made for 
treatment in the USA doesnt form part of the contractual terms. And I can see thats correct. 
Overall, I dont think Bupa has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ls complaint. I also think the compensation its offered for the service issues Mr and 
Mrs L experienced is fair and reasonable. So, I dont think theres anything else Bupa needs 
to do, to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman