DRN-4251452
The complaint
Miss B is a sole trader. She complains that PrePay Technologies Limited (trading as PPS) 
wont refund a transaction she didnt make.
PPS partners with Mettle to provide e-money accounts for its customers. For ease, Ive 
generally referred to PPS throughout the decision as its ultimately responsible for the 
complaint.
What happened
Miss B was the victim of a scam. She was tricked into taking steps that led to fraudsters 
making a payment for £2,320 from her account. PPS declined to refund this, so Miss B 
brought a complaint to our service. 
On 6 July 2023, I reached a provisional decision upholding Miss Bs complaint. She 
accepted my findings. PPS said theyd nothing further to add, but did question my 
recommended award for distress and inconvenience given how this concerns a business 
account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about PPSs response questioning whether a business can feel distress and 
inconvenience. But Miss B is a sole trader, so I remain satisfied she can suffer this in the 
course of running her business. This is different to limited companies, who are a distinct 
legal entities, and therefore, couldnt suffer distress. 
Given that neither side had anything further to add, Ive not changed my mind about whats a 
fair outcome to this complaint. For completeness, Ive included my reasons again below:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is 
that Miss B isnt liable for payments she didnt authorise.
To determine authorisation, Ive considered regulation 67 of the PSRs. This says a 
payment is to be regarded as authorised if Miss B consented to the execution of it  
and that consent must have been given in the form, and in accordance with the 
procedure, agreed between PPS and Miss B.
PPS submit that Miss B approved the payment in the app, so she consented to it. But 
its not provided its terms and conditions to show thats the entire agreed form and 
procedure for consenting to making payments. In the absence of this, Ive reflected 
on the practical steps needed to make a payment like the one in dispute. It seems 
Miss B wouldve needed to enter her card details on the merchants website. As per 
PPSs submission, she then needed to click Approve payment in her Mettle app 
followed by her biometrics.
Here, its not in dispute that Miss Bs card details were used by a fraudster on the 
merchants website. So, even if I accept Miss B took some of the steps in the app, 
that wouldnt mean she completed all the steps in the form, and in accordance with 
the procedure, required to consent to making the payment.
Nor do I think that Miss B could reasonably be described as having given someone 
else permission to go through the form and procedure to make this payment on her 
behalf. After all, she didnt know the caller had her card details, and shes 
consistently explained that she followed their instructions under the belief she was 
talking with Mettle and helping to protect her account from fraud.
Taking this all into account, Im not persuaded she went through the agreed form and 
procedure to consent to this payment or gave someone else permission to consent to 
the payment on her behalf. It was, therefore, unauthorised.
Our investigator concluded this unauthorised payment was in connection with a 
distance contract and so, under the PSRs, it ought to be refunded. However, given 
this is ultimately a consumer protection, and this complaint concerns a business 
account, Im not persuaded thats the right consideration.
So Ive gone on to consider if theres anything else under the PSRs that fairly means 
Miss B is instead liable for this unauthorised payment. For example, if PPS can show 
she failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep her 
personalised security details safe. While its not explicitly argued this, it seems some 
of their submissions allude to this.
But, having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded PPS has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why.
Miss B received a call from someone pretending to from Mettle. Shes explained they 
knew several pieces of sensitive information about her and her account and they told 
her someone had attempted to make a large payment. Given the callers detailed 
knowledge and the circumstances they presented, I can see how Miss B trusted the 
caller and became panicked about the safety of her account. I think lots of people 
wouldve reacted in a similar way.
Miss B said she was subsequently told someone was attempting a further payment 
which theyd need to stop  they asked her to go into the payment on her app and 
follow their instructions.
She cant recall a screen which asked her to approve or deny the payment. And I 
note from the evidence that 3DS Version 1 was used, so Im not sure that PPS has 
sent us an accurate depiction of what she wouldve seen. I note PPSs response to 
her complaint referred to her providing a code. 
But, even accepting she wouldve seen the screens PPS shared with us, Im not 
persuaded her actions here meant that she failed with gross negligence. Or, in other 
words, that she fell so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done, acted with 
very significant carelessness, or seriously disregarded an obvious risk.
Here, Miss B already trusted she was genuinely speaking with Mettle  and I can see 
how she was further convinced when the attempted payment appeared in her app 
when they told her about it.PPS suggest Miss B ought to have recognised these steps from other payments she 
made. But its clear she was panicked by what shed been told and was acting with 
urgency to protect her account from fraud. So I can see how she didnt put this all 
together at the time.
Ive also noted this wasnt a long drawn-out process that gave Miss B a lot of time to 
reflect on what she was doing. And that, while we know with the benefit of hindsight 
that the caller had stolen Miss Bs card details, she was entirely ignorant to this in the 
heat of the moment.
Taking all these circumstances into account  her trust in the caller, the panic and 
urgency theyd falsely created, and the simplicity of the actions needed, I can see 
how Miss B focussed on following their instructions without properly taking account of 
what the screens were telling her. And while she may have been careless, I dont 
think PPS has shown she was grossly negligent here.
It follows that I dont think PPS has shown a reason not to put right this unauthorised 
payment in line with the PSRs. So my decision is that Miss B isnt liable for the 
disputed payment and PPS needs to put things right  by refunding her losses from 
the disputed payment alongside 8% simple interest per year to compensate her for 
the time shes been out of pocket.
PPS ought to have refunded this much sooner. Because it didnt, Miss Bs new 
business struggled to keep afloat. So I also award £150 to reflect her distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Bs complaint. PrePay Technologies Limited 
must:
Refund Miss B the disputed payment, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay Miss B £150 to reflect her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman