DRN-4184527
The complaint
Ms F complains that HCC International Insurance Company Plc trading as Tokio Marine 
HCC rejected a claim on her bicycle insurance policy and said her policy was void.
Where I refer to HCC, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Ms F made a claim on her policy after her bike was stolen. HCC asked for her various pieces 
of information to assess her claim. Ms F was unhappy with the amount of time taken to 
consider her claim and complained about delays. 
After considering everything she provided, HCC told Ms F that the claim would not be 
covered and that her policy would be declared void. Ms F complained about this decision.
In its final response to the complaint HCC said: 
it had been necessary to request evidence from Ms F and there was no unnecessary 
delay while dealing with this;
Ms F had made two previous claims for stolen bicycles which she hadnt disclosed;
she had been asked a clear question about this when she bought the policy;
if it had known about the two earlier claims, it would not have offered the policy to 
her.
Ms F referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator did not agree that Ms F was 
asked a clear question and didnt think it was fair to decline the claim and void the policy. He 
said HCC should reinstate the policy, remove any record of it from any database and 
consider the claim. 
The investigator also asked HCC to pay compensation of £200 for the distress caused to 
Ms F and compensate her for any costs she incurred (on receipt of evidence of this) as a 
result of being without her bicycle.
HCC disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case, taking into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
HCC was entitled to ask Ms F for evidence in support of her claim. But once it received that 
information HCC decided to void Ms Fs policy, saying there had been a misrepresentation. 
So Ive considered whether that decision was fair. 
The relevant law that applies in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA says a consumer has a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a policy.
If HCC can show there was a misrepresentation as a result of Ms F failing to take 
reasonable care and that it would have done something different if there had not been a 
misrepresentation, that would be what CIDRA refers to as a qualifying misrepresentation. It 
can then apply one of the remedies set out in CIDRA. 
When considering whether Ms F took reasonable care, one of the things to consider is how 
clear and specific were the questions Ms F was asked.
Ms F was asked to confirm a number a number of statements, including
In the last five years, neither I nor anyone whose property is to be insured have sustained 
any loss or damage which would have been covered by this type of insurance.
HCC says this was a clear question but I disagree. It isnt specific about claims for loss of a 
bicycle. And it talks about any loss or damage which would have been covered by this type 
of insurance. I think thats quite wide and quite vague. A consumer wouldnt necessarily 
know whether a claim would be covered by the insurance.
HCC has referred to its underwriting criteria when saying it wouldnt have offered the policy if 
it had known about the previous claims. The criteria refer to previous claims and thats what 
HCC wanted to know about. It could have asked a question about this. Indeed thats what 
would typically be done; insurers want to know if the consumer has made previous claims 
and so will ask them questions about this. 
A question about this could have been very clear and specific  for example asking Ms F 
how many claims she had made for bicycle theft in the last five years (or any other period it 
needed to know about). Ms F wasnt asked a question about previous claims.
For these reasons I dont consider there has been a qualifying misrepresentation. It follows 
that HCC was not entitled to treat the policy as void so it should be reinstated. And If HCC 
has recorded it on any database (either its own internal database or an external one) this 
record should be removed. It should then go on to consider her claim in line with the policy 
terms.
Ms F says the bicycle was her only means of transport and she was left without it for longer 
than was necessary. She hasnt provided details of additional costs she incurred in having to 
get around without the use of the bike but if she incurred travel costs (for example bus fares) 
that wouldnt otherwise have been incurred but for HCC wrongly voiding her policy, I agree 
its reasonable for HCC to consider those costs  subject to Ms F providing evidence of her 
costs and those costs being reasonable. 
It would have been upsetting for Ms F to be told not only that her claim wouldnt be paid but 
that her policy was void. And she was put to some inconvenience in having to pursue the 
matter. I agree a payment of £200 would be fair to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct HCC International Insurance Company Plc trading as Tokio 
Marine HCC to reinstate the policy and assess the claim in line with the policy terms;
remove any information recorded on any internal or external database to say that 
Ms F has had a policy voided;
subject to receiving evidence from Ms F of any reasonable and proportionate costs 
she incurred as a result of being without her bicycle, compensate her for those costs; 
and
pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman