DRN-4222903
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited handled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy He wants £10,000 compensation. 
What happened
Mr A was involved in an accident and made a claim on his policy. But he was unhappy that 
Aioi Nissay Dowa delayed recovering his uninsured losses and that it didnt refer his 
personal injuries claim to its solicitors. He wants £10,000 compensation for the delays, the 
time he has spent on the matter, and his personal injuries. Aioi Nissay Dowa agreed it hadnt 
responded promptly to some of Mr As emails and it paid him £50 compensation. But Mr A 
remained unhappy.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aioi 
Nissay Dowa had instructed its solicitors to recover its outlay and Mr As uninsured losses 
(his policy excess and initial repairs costs) when the other insurer had disputed liability for 
the accident. These were eventually recovered, and Aioi Nissay Dowa paid Mr A the 
required amount even though it hadnt yet received its payment. She thought Aioi Nissay 
Dowa then reinstated Mr As no Claims Discount (NCD) entitlement in a reasonable time. 
She thought Mr A could then ask his current insurer to recalculate his premium with this. 
The Investigator thought Aioi Nissay Dowa had referred Mr A to a legal partner to deal with 
his personal injuries claim. This was outside his motor policy. The legal company didnt 
contact Mr A, but she couldnt hold Aioi Nissay Dowa responsible for this. And she didnt 
think Aioi Nissay Dowa had appointed the legal company to recover Mr As uninsured 
losses. She thought Mr A could still pursue his personal injuries claim under his separate 
Motor Legal Protection Policy if he so wished. And she thought Aioi Nissay Dowas 
compensation for the communication delays was fair and reasonable. 
Mr A replied that he wasnt aware that there was a separate claims process for uninsured 
losses. He thought Aioi Nissay Dowa hadnt referred him to the appropriate insurers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there are a number of companies involved in Mr As claim and I can 
understand that this must be confusing. Mr A was sold his motor insurance policy by a 
broker. This policy was underwritten by Aioi Nissay Dowa. And, as his complaint is about the 
service received after he made a claim, then his complaint is properly addressed to Aioi 
Nissay Dowa, even though its agents may have dealt with the claim on its behalf. 
Mr A also had a separate Motor Legal Protection Policy underwritten by a different insurer 
but sold to him by the same broker. I cant consider the actions of this insurer here as its a 
separate company to Aioi Nissay Dowa. 
There are two legal companies involved. Aioi Nissay Dowa has a legal partner that could 
deal with consumers uninsured losses outside the motor insurance policy. And Aioi Nissay 
Dowa also employed its own solicitors that could recover its own outlay where there was a 
dispute with the other insurer. But, again, I cant consider the actions of the solicitors here.
Mr A said he wasnt aware that there were separate insurers and claims processes involved. 
But I can see that when he bought his policies, he was provided with Insurance Product 
Information Documents (IPIDs), along with other items, that explained the policies he had 
bought and the names of the insurers. Mr A provided us with copies of these. The IPID for 
his motor insurance policy clearly states that the insurer is Aioi Nissay Dowa, and the policy 
doesnt provide cover for personal injuries. I wouldnt expect Aioi Nissay Dowa to explain to 
Mr A how to use a separate policy.
When Mr A first made his claim, he said he made Aioi Nissay Dowas agent aware of his 
personal injuries and so it should have taken responsibility for this. But I dont agree. In the 
call, I think the agent clearly explained that this wasnt his department and he referred Mr A 
to its legal partner for recovery of his uninsured losses, including his personal injuries claim:
To offer you further assistance you may wish to utilise the services of our car hire and legal 
partners. This is an offer of independent support for you and is not part of your policy with 
ourselves. We have therefore passed your details to: 
Our legal partnerswill also contact you to offer assistance in dealing with any financial 
losses such as recovery of your policy excess or injuries you may have sustained.
Mr A said the referral wasnt made. But I can see from Aioi Nissay Dowas file that it was 
sent to the legal partner, and Mr A has been provided with a copy of this referral. This 
company should then have contacted Mr A, but it unfortunately didnt. But I cant reasonably 
hold Aioi Nissay Dowa responsible for this as I think it had clearly explained to Mr A on the 
phone and in a letter that this company would be able to pursue his uninsured losses. I think 
Mr A could reasonably have called it when he didnt hear anything further.  
Mr A thought Aioi Nissay Dowa had changed its solicitors as it later used a different 
company to recover its own outlay and some of his uninsured losses. But I dont agree. From 
its file, I can see that the other drivers insurer disputed liability. So, when Aioi Nissay Dowa 
had received an invoice for Mr As cars repairs, it was able to instruct its own solicitors to 
take legal action to recover this outlay, in keeping with standard industry practice. As a 
courtesy to Mr A, it also sought recovery of Mr As policy excess and his initial repairs costs. 
The legal company that Aioi Nissay Dowa had initially referred Mr A to was a separate 
company and independent of Aioi Nissay Dowa. 
Mr A was initially unhappy with that there were delays in the reimbursement of his policy 
excess and repairs costs. I can see that when these were recovered from the other insurer, 
they were paid to an incorrect account. When this came to Aioi Nissay Dowas attention, it 
then reimbursed Mr A even though it hadnt yet received its repayment. I think that was fair 
and reasonable and I cant say that Aioi Nissay Dowa caused any avoidable delays in this. 
Mr A was also unhappy with the delay in closing the claim. But I can see that when Aioi 
Nissay Dowa had recovered its outlay it provided Mr A with a letter confirming that his NCD 
was unaffected by the claim. I think Mr A could show this to his current insurer so that his 
current premium was correctly calculated. So I cant say that having the claim still open 
caused Mr A any loss. 
I can see that Aioi Nissay Dowa accepts that it didnt always respond promptly to Mr As 
emails. And it paid him £50 compensation for this. I think that was fair and reasonable as its 
in keeping with our published guidance. I dont require Aioi Nissay Dowa to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman