DRN-3433472
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that, although the services BUPA Insurance Limited was able to 
provide as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic were restricted, they were still required to pay 
the premium for their private health insurance policy. Theyre unhappy that they didnt 
receive a refund of the premiums during that period.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have had the benefit of medical insurance, underwritten by BUPA, for many 
years. The policy was renewed each year.
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately
funded treatment were utilised by the NHS for treatment. As a result, BUPA says it had to
suspend routine and non-urgent treatments.
Throughout the time when medical facilities were being utilised by the NHS due to the 
pandemic  which affected BUPAs ability to provide a full range of services  Mr and Mrs G 
continued to pay their insurance premium. 
In April 2020, BUPA said it was committed to pass back any exceptional financial benefit it
ultimately received because of Covid-19 to its UK health insurance customers  either by
way of a rebate or other appropriate means (BUPAs pledge). 
Towards the start of 2021, BUPA confirmed that it had undertaken a review as part of 
BUPAs pledge. And subsequently Mr and Mrs G were told a rebate equivalent to around 
one months premium would be paid. This has now been paid. 
Mr and Mrs G say BUPA should be reimbursing them for the premiums they paid for the 
policy during the months private facilities were impacted. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. They didnt agree and asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. So, this complaint has been passed to me consider everything 
afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
At the outset, BUPA said that if it transpired that there was a reduction in the claims it paid 
for customers overall, it would pass back to customers any exceptional financial benefit it 
made arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. I think BUPAs published course of action in or 
around April 2020 was fair and reasonable. The effects of the pandemic were still ongoing at 
that time, and the impact was still uncertain. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there had been an overall reduction in the claims 
made on BUPAs private medical insurance policies. However, BUPA says non-urgent 
treatments - deferred in the earlier stages of the pandemic - wouldve still needed to have 
been delivered and funded by BUPA at a later date, once private facilities were no longer 
needed by the NHS to treat patients. I accept what it says about that.
Mr and Mrs G say they shouldve received a higher rebate to reflect the number of months 
when services were impacted. But I disagree. 
 
I accept that as private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to support the NHSs 
response to the pandemic, this temporarily affected BUPAs ability to provide the full range 
of services it would usually be able to offer customers under their medical insurance policies 
 including Mr and Mrs G. Particularly so for several months from March 2020. I appreciate 
this wasnt Mr and Mrs Gs fault. However, Im also satisfied the ultimate impact the 
pandemic had on private facilities  which was unprecedented and unforeseen - was also 
outside of BUPAs of control. 
Whilst I appreciate why Mr and Mrs G say they were paying for an insurance product which 
they couldnt make full use of if they needed to, from what I know Im satisfied BUPA did put 
in place other benefits to support its customers at this time. That included, where possible, 
arranging remote consultations with appropriate medical professionals. So, I think Mr and 
Mrs G couldve benefitted from the policy during this time even if certain appointments and 
routine and non-urgent treatments were being delayed. I can also see that Mr G had been 
able to utilise the policy during the policy year 2020/2021 - within the months after private 
facilities were being used for private treatment again  albeit towards the latter part of the 
policy year. 
The basis of the rebate payment is to represent any exceptional financial benefit made by 
BUPA as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And I think BUPA has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way its calculated the rebate. 
BUPA commissioned a third party to assure that the way in which it shares out the rebate is 
fair and reasonable across eligible UK health insurance customers and it was satisfied with 
its intended course of action. That third party is independent of BUPA. Its reflected on 
BUPAs website:
We have independently reviewed BUPAs proposed approach to allocating its rebate
fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers. We recognise that finding
the right balance between fairness, simplicity and BUPAs desire to act promptly in
distributing the rebate fund is challenging, and that no single approach will fully
satisfy all stakeholders. We are satisfied that BUPAs proposed approach to
allocating its rebate fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers is
reasonable and strikes an equitable balance between these objectives.
Im also conscious that BUPA has committed to carry out a final review in due course to
ensure it has met BUPAs pledge. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint given that Covid-19 is still prevalent, and its full impact hasnt been fully 
determined.
Mr G also says that treatment he required in early 2021 was delayed. BUPAs contact notes 
reflect that pre-authorisation was given in late 2020 and in February 2021  before the policy 
was due to renew  Mr G contacted BUPA to say that treatment was cancelled. I can 
understand that this wouldve been frustrating for Mr G but I dont think I can reasonably hold 
BUPA responsible for that cancelation. I can also see that it agreed to waive the excess which wouldve been payable should this treatment roll over to the next policy year. I think 
that was fair and reasonable. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr G says about BUPA not paying him for services he was 
required to provide it as a medical professional. However, as our investigator explained, 
thats not a complaint our service has the power to investigate or determine. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman