DRN-4131989
The complaint
Mr E complains Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services (Black Horse) 
didnt complete appropriate checks when lending to him.
What happened
In October 2014, Mr E acquired a used car which was financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse. He was required to make a first monthly repayment of £298.95, 
followed by 58 monthly repayments £149.95 and a final repayment on month 60 of £314.95.
Shortly after the agreement commenced Mr E unfortunately got into difficulties making his 
repayments. The agreement went into arrears and a repayment plan for a reduced monthly 
amount of £50 was agreed in the short term. Mr E later sold the car to a third party and the 
outstanding balance was written off, meaning whilst Black Horse still hold him liable for the 
debt, they are no longer chasing him for repayment.
Mr E complained to Black Horse in July 2022 after noticing a default on his credit file. He 
believes the finance was mis-sold because he struggled to make the monthly repayments 
and got into debt elsewhere by trying to do so.
Black Horse didnt uphold the complaint. Because Mr E remained unhappy, he referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt think Black Horse acted unfairly 
because she was satisfied, theyd completed reasonable and proportionate checks prior to 
agreeing to provide finance to Mr E.
Mr E disagreed saying he was unemployed and in receipt of benefits at the time so Black 
Horse had acted irresponsibly as a lender. He also says hed had a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) registered against him for an unrelated debt shortly before taking out the 
car finance, so he doesnt agree reasonable and proportionate checks took place. 
As no resolution could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr E, so Ill 
explain why.
But first, Mr E has provided our service a great deal of evidence in support of his complaint, 
which I thank him for. Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has 
been provided, and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully looked at everything Mr E has said and provided, but I also must consider what 
Black Horse knew at the time of the application and take into account the relevant rules put 
in place by The Financial Conduct Authority, the regulator at the time.
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. CONC 5.2.3 is relevant here, as  
among other things  it talks about the need for businesses like Black Horse to complete 
reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to lend 
someone money.
Ive looked at the information and evidence Black Horse gathered before agreeing to provide 
the finance about Mr Es circumstances at the time.
Mr E told Black Horse he received an annual salary of approximately £18,000 and at the 
time had been employed by the same company for three years. Whilst I understand Mr E 
told our service this wasnt the case; Black Horse completed an affordability check. The 
check uses several sources such as current account turnover and previous credit 
applications to help verify the stated income and indicated to them a high level of confidence 
in the information Mr E had provided.
Black Horse also completed a credit check to help them understand how Mr E managed 
both his current and existing finances. This returned he held a clean credit history with 
multiple active credit relationships and no evidence of missed repayments in the six months 
leading to the application. 
Black Horse also completed an affordability check using a range of data including 
information gathered from Mr E, the credit check results and statistical data. This showed 
against a monthly income of £1,287, Mr E had monthly expenses of £836 which left a 
disposable monthly income of £451. Having looked through the results from the credit check 
and the information provided to Black Horse at the time, I find the affordability check 
completed to have been reasonable and proportionate.
I understand Mr E has pointed to both a CCJ and recent missed repayments shortly prior to 
the lending being agreed. But I can only consider the result of the check completed at the 
time which didnt raise any concerns and gave Black Horse confidence the risk of lending to 
Mr E was low.
When an event such as a CCJ being registered occurs, it can take some time for it to reflect 
on a credit history. I can see in Mr Es case it was only registered two months prior to him 
applying for the car finance, so its understandable it didnt appear on the search completed 
by Black Horse. I also cant see Mr E declared the CCJ during the application process, so 
Ive seen nothing I think ought reasonably to have made Black Horse suspect Mr E wasnt 
being truthful with the information hed provided.
While I dont doubt Mr E found himself in difficult circumstances around the time and Im 
sorry to hear this, based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied Black Horse did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks prior to agreeing the finance and I dont think they 
acted unfairly by lending to him.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman