DRN-3180635
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim made under 
their landlord insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In March 2020, the tenants of Mr and Mrs Bs property reported that the ceiling had 
collapsed in the kitchen. Mr and Mrs B notified AXA who appointed a loss adjuster to 
oversee the claim.
A plumber traced the source of the damage to a leak and Mr and Mrs B arranged for a 
contractor to complete the repairs. 
There followed some disagreement about both the scope of the claim and the repairs 
required. So, Mr and Mrs B provided further evidence to the loss adjuster to move the claim 
forward. This was unsuccessful, so Mr and Mrs B approached AXA directly with their 
concerns.
AXA determined that the likely costs of the claim would be higher than it had initially scoped 
for and so appointed a second loss adjuster to oversee the claim. It made an offer to settle 
the claim in April 2021.
Mr and Mrs B complained to AXA. They said the overall claims process had taken far too 
long, and this in turn had caused them unnecessary stress and time spent dealing with the 
matter.
AXA told Mr and Mrs B that it accepted there was a delay in dealing with the claim based on 
the loss adjusters initial assessment of the damage. It offered Mr and Mrs B £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with AXAs response, so they brought their complaint to our 
service. They said AXAs offer of compensation wasnt enough to cover the upset caused by 
its handling of the claim.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They 
concluded AXAs offer of compensation was fair in the circumstances, so they couldnt 
reasonably ask it to pay any more. 
Mr and Mrs B dont agree. They say the claim took over their lives and maintain the amount 
awarded by AXA is too low. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and Ill set out my 
reasons below.
Ultimately, its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs B have been caused significant disruption by 
the claim. And it is not my intention to downplay their experience here  in particular the 
impact and stress on Mr Bs health. But as our investigator has explained, our services role 
is to consider the delays and upset directly caused by AXA, over and above that which 
wouldve been caused by Mr and Mrs B dealing with the claim in any event.
I understand Mr and Mrs B were concerned about the impact of the claim on their tenants, 
and as matters progressed their concerns grew about the tenants moving out altogether. But 
in determining a fair and reasonable compensation award, I can only consider what actually 
happened. And as the tenants didnt move out, there isnt any consequential impact to        
Mr and Mrs B for me to consider here.
Both parties agree that the initial scope of works was too low and needed increasing, and I 
find that this was the main cause of avoidable delay and upset by AXA. This is linked to the 
increased communications between Mr and Mrs B and the loss adjuster, and the time they 
spent providing additional evidence from their contractors to demonstrate the scope of the 
insured damage. These delays clearly added some months to the overall claim journey. And 
its apparent that Mr and Mrs B were required to be engaged with the claim to a greater 
degree than I would reasonably expect to see.
I dont find that any delays concerning the second loss adjusters appoint were avoidable. 
AXA has shown that the initial loss adjuster was authorised to deal with the claim up to a 
certain value, and once it became apparent that this value would be exceeded, the claim 
was required to be referred to a more appropriate loss adjuster. So, I think that this would 
have most likely have happened in any event had the initial works been scoped correctly.
I understand Mr and Mrs B are disappointed with this amount of compensation and feel that 
their experience merits a substantially higher payment. But I am satisfied that AXA has fairly 
acknowledged its mistakes here, and that the compensation awarded reflects this.
Taking everything into account, I find AXAs payment of £500 compensation for its handling 
of the claim is reasonable, and I am not going to require it to pay any more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman