DRN-1666601
The complaint
Miss J says Evergreen Finance London Ltd (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss J had two instalment loans with MoneyBoat. The first was for £300 in October 2017 and 
the second was for £1,000 in April 2018. I understand the second loan hasn't yet been 
repaid.
An adjudicator considered Miss J's complaint and thought it should be upheld. They didn't 
think MoneyBoat should've approved either of the loans it agreed for Miss J.
MoneyBoat didn't agree with the adjudicator and so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Miss J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that Miss J's complaint should be upheld in its entirety largely 
because they thought the credit history information MoneyBoat obtained ought to have 
caused it to realise Miss J was in significant financial difficulty.
MoneyBoat's main objection to this seems to be that it considers the affordability checks it 
carried out before lending were proportionate. But to me, that seems to miss the point. The 
issue here isn't so much whether MoneyBoat's affordability checks were proportionate but 
what the checks it actually carried out told it about Miss J.
From the information I've seen, Miss J had around four other short-term loans outstanding 
when she asked MoneyBoat for the first loan and had been regularly accessing high-cost 
credit in the period before her application. When Miss J asked for her second loan, less than 
a week after repaying the first, she had around eight other short-term loans outstanding and 
again had regularly been accessing high-cost credit.
I can't be sure MoneyBoat saw all of Miss J's other loans when it carried out its credit check 
but from what it's shown us I think it likely saw enough to know Miss J had serious financial 
problems. This sort of extreme use of high-cost credit isn't usual and I think it's fair and 
reasonable to conclude MoneyBoat ought to have taken it into account. I appreciate 
MoneyBoat's comments that it isn't practical to manually underwrite all loans like this - but 
that's not what I'm suggesting. MoneyBoat had access to Miss J's credit history and I think, 
even just looking at the broad picture it presented, there was enough to show it wasn't 
appropriate to lend to Miss J at the time. Miss J's long-term and high-volume use of short-
term credit was, in her particular circumstances, enough on its own to show she likely had an 
underlying financial problem which would likely mean these new loans were not sustainably 
affordable.
So while I realise this will be disappointing for MoneyBoat, my decision is that I am upholding 
Miss J's complaint.
Putting things right
MoneyBoat must refund the interest and charges Miss J paid for the first loan, adding 8% 
simple interest per year from when Miss J paid the interest and charges, until the date of 
settlement. MoneyBoat should also remove any adverse information recorded about this 
loan.
For the second loan, MoneyBoat should remove all interest and charges and treat all 
payments made as if they were paid towards the principal. If there is still an outstanding 
balance, MoneyBoat can apply the redress from the first loan to reduce the balance. The 
important thing is that Miss J shouldn't repay more than she borrowed. If Miss J has already paid more than £1,000 to MoneyBoat, it should refund those 
payments, adding 8% simple interest per year from when Miss J paid them until the date of 
settlement. If instead Miss J still owes MoneyBoat something, then I encourage both 
parities to maintain a suitable repayment plan. MoneyBoat should also remove any adverse 
information it has recorded about the second loan, although it may wait until the principal has 
been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this 
interest. MoneyBoat must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss J's complaint. Evergreen Finance London Ltd 
must put things right by taking the steps set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman