DRN-2618811
The complaint
Ms H complains that shes been treated unfairly by Landmark Mortgages Limited. Ms H says 
Landmark wouldnt agree to remove her ex-partner from her interest only mortgage. Ms H 
says it would consider this change if she transferred the mortgage onto capital repayment 
terms, but this made the mortgage unaffordable.
Ms H says she felt she had no choice but to sell her property and repay the mortgage. Ms H 
would like Landmark to compensate her and help her get back on the property ladder.
What happened
In 2005 Ms H took out an interest only mortgage for around £98,000 with Northern Rock. 
The mortgage was taken out over a 21-year term, on a joint basis with Ms Hs partner at the 
time. This loan was transferred to Landmark some years after the collapse of Northern Rock.
Ms H separated from the other account holder years ago. Since then Ms H says shes tried a 
couple of times to remove his name from the mortgage. Ms H says Landmark hasnt done 
enough to help her remove her ex-partner from the mortgage, either by letting her continue 
the mortgage in her sole name or by adding her new partner. 
Ms H complains that Landmark told her that if she wanted her ex-partner removed from the 
loan, she must transfer her interest only mortgage to a capital repayment basis, and it would 
only agree to do this over a nine-year term. This meant Ms H failed an affordability 
assessment as the repayments were much higher on these new terms. Ms H says she felt 
she had no choice but to sell her house and repay the mortgage and shes suffered financial 
loss as a result.
In 2019 Ms H spoke to Landmark. She wanted to move to a less expensive property and 
reduce her debts. Landmark says it told Ms H told there was a possibility of porting her 
mortgage to another property. An appointment was made to discuss this option, but Ms H 
cancelled this before the meeting went ahead. Ms H sold her property in early 2019 and 
complained to Landmark soon after saying it was due to Landmarks lack of support over the 
years that shed had to sell her home. 
Landmark gave its final response to Ms Hs complaint on 13 June 2019. It said it didnt agree 
that it had treated Ms H unfairly. It said Ms H had completed a change of borrower 
application in 2015 but this was declined as Ms Hs new partners income couldnt be verified 
in accordance with its policy. This was because hed only been in his current job for eleven 
months. Landmark said Ms H had been advised that your account would need to convert to 
repayment and due to the monthly payments being unaffordable for you we were unable to 
accept the change of parties application.
Landmark said a further change of party application was made in 2017, but this was declined 
due to policy and that the mortgage didnt appear affordable for Ms H. Landmark said 
thered been discussion about adding a new party at this point too, but this was also 
considered unaffordable.
Our investigator thought Landmark should have done more to help Ms H in 2015 and in 
2017. She upheld the complaint and thought it fair that Landmark covers some costs that Ms 
H has incurred since selling the property to put things right. She also thought Landmark 
should pay £1,000 for the trouble and upset it had caused Ms H.
Following our investigators view, Landmark has now accepted that it didnt handle Ms Hs 
requests to transfer her mortgage into her sole name as it should. 
Landmark offered to pay Ms H £500 for the trouble and upset it had caused her through its 
handling of her mortgage. But it wouldnt agree to the further compensation as set out by our 
investigator. 
This complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in January 2021. In it I said:
On both occasions that Ms H approached Landmark to ask to remove her ex-husband from 
the mortgage, she was told she would have to transfer the mortgage onto capital repayment 
terms. Landmark then asked that Ms H demonstrate that she could afford this higher 
repayment on her sole income. Both times this was found to be unaffordable on the new 
terms required by Landmark and Ms H then explored adding another name to the mortgage 
to make this affordable. There were also issues with the potential additional partys income 
and so neither time was the application approved.
I agree with our investigators reasons for upholding this complaint. For clarity, Ill set out 
why I consider Landmarks process was unfair for Ms H and led to an unreasonable outcome 
for Ms H in 2015 and 2017.
This complaint concerns the regulations that have flowed from the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Mortgage Market Review (MMR). This has led to a series of major changes, 
effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. 
MMR regulations have brought about stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect 
consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The transitional 
arrangements are an important part of this regulation. Theyre intended to make sure that 
existing mortgage customers, whose mortgages were taken out before the new rules were 
introduced in 2014, dont get treated unfairly as an unintended consequence of this stricter 
regulation. 
Ive thought carefully about these rules, and everything that Ms H has said about her plans in 
the future and the fact that she has been paying this mortgage on her own for a considerable 
period of time. Ive also considered everything Landmark has said and why it says it declined 
Ms Hs request on both occasions.I dont think it was unreasonable that Landmark wanted to carry out an affordability 
assessment to make sure that the change in borrower (moving this mortgage from joint to 
sole) was going to be affordable for Ms H. And the transitional arrangements dont say that 
Landmark mustnt carry out an assessment. In fact, where there is a material change to the 
mortgage, such as a change of borrower, I think it can often be in the consumers best 
interests to make sure the mortgage is affordable for one borrower on their own going 
forward.
However, Landmark said Ms H must convert her mortgage to capital repayment because it 
wasnt satisfied that she had a way to repay the mortgage in full at the end of the term. I 
think Landmark could have overlooked Ms H not having the means to repay this interest only 
mortgage (other than by selling the property), if it thought agreeing to the application would 
otherwise be in her best interests. Given that Ms H had been separated for years and both 
parties wanted to move on with their lives independently, I think that would be in their best 
interests. 
I can see the argument that its in Ms Hs best interests to convert to repayment terms if 
thats possible  but the problem here was that Landmark made consideration of the change 
of borrower application conditional on that, and it then applied an affordability assessment. 
By changing the basis of the change of borrower application to capital repayment, Landmark 
made the mortgage commitments much more expensive for Ms H. She then failed the 
affordability assessment. In fact, the changes that Landmark insisted upon made the 
mortgage around four times more expensive than the monthly interest Ms H had been 
paying every month in full and on time. 
Landmark also didnt explore extending the mortgage term as I believe it could have. At one 
point it considered an extension of around 8 years. Ms H was in her mid-forties when the 
request was made. I think Landmark could have explored a much longer-term extension for 
a capital repayment mortgage, taking Ms H nearer to her retirement age. This would have 
reduced the monthly commitment for Ms H. It may have made the request to remove her ex-
husband affordable for Ms H and achieved the aim of moving the mortgage onto a capital 
repayment basis.
Landmark also appears to have given no thought to what Ms H had already demonstrated 
she could afford. Ms H had been making the mortgage payments on her own for some time 
and she had a track record of managing this mortgage on an interest only basis. 
Landmark has accepted that it should have done more in 2015 and 2017. Im pleased to see 
that it has now changed its process and such applications would now be referred to senior 
decision makers. Landmark has assured us that the problems experienced by Ms H wouldnt 
happen to other customers if they made the same requests now. This is an encouraging 
development, but I accept that these changes have come too late for Ms H who has already 
sold her home and repaid her mortgage.
How do I think Landmark should put things right?
Our investigator thought it fair in the circumstances of this complaint that Landmark 
compensate Ms H for:
- some costs involved in her selling her home and paying for rental accommodation;
- the loss of revenue suffered by her business as she couldnt operate it in the same 
way from her rental accommodation as she had done in her mortgaged home; and- pay £1,000 for the trouble and upset its actions caused Ms H.
Landmark has offered £500 for the trouble and upset it has caused Ms H but made no 
further offer of compensation.
Ive set out why Im upholding this complaint. Whats far more difficult in this case is how I 
can reasonably put Ms H back in the position she would have been in if Landmark had 
engaged properly with her requests to change this mortgage in 2015 and 2017. 
If circumstances were different, and the mortgage was still running, I would be able to direct 
Landmark to look again at making the changes now and compensate Ms H for the upset 
caused by this not happening before. However, in this case the situation has moved on. Ms 
H no longer wants a mortgage with Landmark. Her new partner has managed to get a 
mortgage on a different property with a high street lender at a very competitive interest rate. 
This rate is much lower than Landmarks Standard Variable Rate. This new mortgage, in all 
likelihood, sees Ms H and her partner with a more suitable mortgage in the short and long 
term than the one she had with Landmark before. 
Landmark has said that Ms Hs mortgage could have carried on running in joint names. And I 
note there was also an opportunity for Ms H to speak with Landmark about porting the 
mortgage before she sold her home. Ms H seems to have had plans to downsize to a 
smaller property and release capital to repay a secured loan also taken out on her home. Ms 
H decided not to go ahead with the porting discussions, but if she had then this might have 
given her the chance to keep her mortgage and move it to another property. 
Overall, I dont think its clear that Ms Hs decision to sell her property when she did, choose 
the rental property she did, and the impact this had on her own business run from home 
have all come about as a direct consequence of Landmarks actions in 2015 and 2017. I 
therefore consider it would be unreasonable to expect Landmark to reimburse Ms H for 
these costs. 
In summary my provisional findings were that on two separate occasions Landmark failed to 
actively engage with Ms Hs requests to transfer her interest only mortgage into her sole 
name. In all the circumstances of this complaint, I thought Landmark had acted 
unreasonably by doing so. I was persuaded that this would have been very disappointing, 
frustrating and upsetting for Ms H. And I thought this problem and uncertainty went on for 
years when it could have been sorted out in 2015. My provisional decision was that 
Landmark should pay Ms H £1,000 for the trouble and upset caused to her by its actions.
Responses to my provisional decision
Landmark accepted my provisional decision.
Ms H replied to say she was disappointed by my provisional decision. Ms H said shed 
explored porting her mortgage to another suitable property but that she couldnt find one that 
would be big enough for her family and to accommodate her business. Ms H said she and 
her partner had no choice but to rent and save up money to apply for a different mortgage. A 
year after selling the property, she and her partner had managed to find a suitable size of 
property after he managed to get a mortgage for around £150,000 with a high street lender. 
Ms H says this shows how good his credit history was and that Landmark hadnt wanted to 
help them earlier.
By renting for a period of time, Ms H said they could purchase another property as soon as 
something affordable and suitable came up, knowing they were ready to move and not in a 
chain.  Ms H has explained why it was a last resort to sell the property, and that this seemed the 
only way to remove her previous partners name from the mortgage. And it wasnt her fault 
that Northern Rock ceased trading and she was left with a mortgage with Landmark.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand the further arguments that Ms H is making. And, I can see why its 
disappointing that Im awarding less compensation to put things right than our Investigator 
had recommended. 
Id like to reassure Ms H that I havent based my decision solely on the fact she didnt 
choose to port the mortgage to another property. I can see the dilemma that Ms H faced, 
and I am mindful of the pressure she felt to get her ex-partner removed from the mortgage 
as quickly as she could.
While I am sympathetic to all the arguments made, this doesnt change my findings about 
what compensation I consider Landmark should pay Ms H now to settle the matter. 
I say this as there were many factors involved in Ms Hs decision to sell her property and 
repay her Landmark mortgage. Ms H has explained these factors to me in some detail. 
There were also particular requirements for a new property and making sure Ms H and her 
partner were in a strong position to secure another mortgage to purchase a different, larger 
home.
I dont doubt that one factor in the decision Ms H made to sell her property and repay the 
mortgage was Landmarks refusal to move the mortgage to her sole name or add her new 
partner. But it wasnt the only reason - and Ms H did have a choice not to move to rental 
accommodation, and not to select rental accommodation from which she couldnt operate 
her business. And so, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Landmark to 
compensate Ms H for costs involved in her rental property and the impact her move had on 
her business. I dont consider these costs came about as a direct result of the mistakes 
made by Landmark in the way it administered Ms Hs mortgage.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I find that Landmark should pay Ms H 
£1,000 for the trouble and upset its mistakes caused to her.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Landmark Mortgages Limited. To 
settle the matter Landmark should pay Ms H £1,000 for the trouble and upset it caused to 
her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman