DRN-3435272
The complaint
Miss W complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited has mishandled a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Watford, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Watford 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from June 2020, Miss W had her car insured on a policy under which Watford 
was responsible for dealing with any claim. Each claim for damage was subject to an excess 
of £290.00.
In September 2020, Miss W and a third party were involved in a road traffic accident. Each 
blamed the other.
In November 2020, Watford collected Miss Ws car and said it was a total loss. Watford sent 
Miss W a cheque for about £1,250.00. Miss W complained to Watford about delay and poor 
communication. 
Watford wrote a final response to Miss W dated 23 November 2020 turning down the 
complaint. She didnt bring that complaint to us within six months of that letter.
In July 2021, Miss W complained to Watford (via us) about delays and their effect on her.
Watford wrote a final response dated 2 March 2022.
Our investigator said that the complaint issues in the November 2020 final response letter 
were brought too late for us to consider. Otherwise, the investigator didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that Watford had made an error or acted 
unreasonably or caused avoidable delay.
Miss W disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. She hasnt given details of her reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. I agree with the investigator that we cant look into the complaint Miss W 
made in 2020 and to which Watford sent a final response in November 2020 . that is 
because of Miss Ws delay in bringing that complaint to us.
But I will make a decision on the complaint that Miss W made for the first time in 2021.
An insurance company may make an outlay to settle a claim from its policyholder or to settle 
a claim from a third party. Where the insurance company has made such an outlay, its 
common practice for it to treat the claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and 
until it recovers its outlay in full, typically from a third party.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurance company to decide how 
to deal with any claim involving a third party. Watfords policy terms included the following:
We, as Your Insurer, can: 
 take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim; and 
 take legal action over any claim. 
These actions may be taken in Your name
The effect of that term is that  on a question of liability involving a third party  Watfords 
view would prevail over Miss Ws view. 
Im satisfied that Watford kept in mind Miss Ws report that the third party had reversed into 
her  and that there was a witness. But the third party said Miss W had hit the rear of their 
vehicle.
Watford asked Miss W for details of the witness. But Miss W didnt provide details until 
October 2021. Watford contacted the witness. But the witness statement wasnt received 
until December 2021.
Watford then put that statement to the third partys insurer. But Watford had received no 
reply by the time it wrote the final response on 2 March 2022.
I have to keep in mind that Watford was delayed by the witness and by the third partys 
insurer. I havent seen evidence that Watford was responsible for avoidable delay.
In any event, the policy terms required Miss W to bear the excess. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Watford to refund the excess that Watford deducted from its payment in 
November 2020.
I havent found Watford responsible for avoidable delay in dealing with the claim against the 
third party. So, whilst I accept that the accident will increase the cost of Miss Ws car 
insurance,  I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford to pay compensation for that.
Ive seen some evidence that there were times when Miss W and Watford had difficulties in 
communicating with each other. But I dont consider that Watford fell below a reasonable 
standard of service. 
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford to pay compensation to Miss W or 
to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2022. Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman