DRN-3271574
The complaint
Mr P complains that Oplo CF Ltd trading as 1st Stop Car Finance irresponsibly granted him 
a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In March 2015, Mr P acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 1st 
Stop Car Finance. Mr P was required to make an initial payment of £350 followed by 46 
monthly repayments of £251 and a further monthly repayment of £376. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £12,270.
Mr P says that 1st Stop Car Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if 
it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. 1st Stop Car Finance didnt 
agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and 
verifying Mr Ps income from his payslip and averaging the monthly income amount to take 
into account that his income varied due to commission. It says Mr P said he was living at 
home with parents at the time.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They thought 1st Stop Car Finance 
ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr P.
1st Stop Car Finance didnt agree and said it had a copy of Mr Ps February payslip which 
showed a higher income than the amount it used and that it used a six month average 
income figure. It said that there were no judgments recorded on Mr Ps credit file but there 
were three defaults (two from 2013 and one from 2014) which it took into account in its 
lending decision. It said that Mr Ps credit report showed he had total loans outstanding of 
£142 and he had said he was living with his parents. It noted that the repayments on the 
agreement were less than 25% of Mr Ps monthly income and that he maintained his 
payments for the first few months. It said Mr Ps payment issues arose after he lost his job in 
November 2015, something it couldnt have foreseen.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before granting the finance, 1st Stop Car Finance gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr P about his income. It calculated his average 
monthly income as £1,444 and while noting that his income consisted of both basic 
salary and commission, I thought the calculation was reasonable. Mr P was also 
receiving working tax credit at the time.
1st Stop Car Finance didnt ask Mr P about his expenditure. It completed a credit 
check, but this wont have indicated what Mr Ps regular living expenses were. 
Without knowing what Mr Ps regular committed expenditure was 1st Stop Car 
Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement 
was affordable or not. I therefore didnt think it completed proportionate checks.
I couldnt be certain what Mr P would have told 1st Stop Car Finance had it asked 
about his regular expenditure but noted that Mr P has provided figures as part of his 
complaint. I didnt think 1st Stop Car Finance needed to request bank statements, but 
in the absence of anything else, I placed significant weight on the information 
contained Mr Ps statements as an indication of what would most likely have been 
disclosed.
Mr Ps bank statements showed cash withdrawals rather than clear payments for 
expenses. So, while I accepted he was making payments through cash for living 
expenses I didnt find I had enough to say that had his expenses information been 
collected at the time of his application, this would have shown the agreement to have 
been unaffordable.
Overall, I didnt find I had enough to say that the agreement was unaffordable to Mr P at the 
time it was provided.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1st Stop Car Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the checks regarding Mr Ps income were 
reasonable, but that 1st Stop Car Finance should have also asked Mr P about this 
expenditure. However, based on the information I received, while I accept Mr P was making 
payments for his living expenses through cash, I do not find I have enough to say that had 
his expenses information been collected at the time of his application, this would have 
shown the agreement to have been unaffordable. 
As no new evidence was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed, and I do not find I have enough to say that the agreement was affordable 
to Mr P at the time it was provided. For this reason, Im not persuaded that 1st Stop Car 
Finance acted unfairly in approving the finance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman