DRN-3192119
The complaint
Ms B complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) were unreasonable to report 
late payments to her credit file.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
MotoNovo agreed to provide a three-month payment deferral for Ms B and extended that 
again in July 2020. Ms Bs July payment was the last one to be deferred and whilst I note 
that MotoNovo had asked her to get back in touch with them on 23 July 2020 to discuss her 
circumstances, I think Ms B would have expected payments to be taken again as soon as 
the deferral period ended. There wasnt, for instance, any agreement to defer further and 
she had been told in an email of 13 July 2020 that her payment arrangement was coming to 
an end and that this meant her normal monthly repayments will be restarting.
Whilst I understand MotoNovos duty to report account performance accurately I am 
persuaded that on this occasion it has been unreasonable to report missed payments. I think 
it was reasonable for Ms B to expect payments to be taken automatically through the still 
active direct debit at the end of her payment deferral period.
  
Putting things right
MotoNovo should remove the adverse reports they have made to Ms Bs credit file.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to remove the late payment markers they reported to Ms Bs credit file.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman