DRN-4142215
The complaint
Mr F complains Santander UK Plc didnt treat him fairly when he disputed some 
transactions. 
What happened
Mr F made six transactions totally about £600 to a merchant, via PayPal. Mr F told 
Santander the merchant hadnt supplied its services because PayPal held on to the money. 
He asked Santander to help him get a refund. Mr F complains it didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr F authorised the transactions, I wouldnt expect Santander do refund him on the basis 
the transactions were made fraudulently. So the only way Santander could assist Mr F was 
though the chargeback process. 
To start this process, Santander asked Mr F to provide evidence to support his dispute. 
Santander didnt think Mr F had provided enough evidence, so it didnt ultimately progress 
chargebacks. 
With a chargeback Santander is acting as an intermediary. It can assist a customer in 
challenging a transaction, but it doesnt set the rules and it must ensure a chargeback has a 
reasonable prospect of success. And success is generally predicated on evidence.
While Mr F provided some information to Santander, he didnt provide any real evidence. For 
example, I cant see he provided details of his contract with the merchant, or anything to 
show the merchant breached said contract. Or that PayPal had indeed kept the money.
In these circumstances, I find it was fair and reasonable for Santander to decide not to 
proceed with six chargebacks. Mr F is dissatisfied with Santanders customer service in this 
matter too. I find its customer service was satisfactory.
Mr F also complains about a duplicate payment from his account. Santander has offered 
Mr F £50 to resolve this part of the complaint, which he has accepted. I find Santanders 
offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It follows I find Santander should pay it. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr F £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman