DRN-3042472
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has agreed to do to put things right 
after he complained it irresponsibly provided him with an overdraft, which it then unfairly 
added interest, fees and charges to causing him to experience financial difficulty.
Background
Lloyds agreed with Mr Ds complaint. It bought back his account from the third-party it sold 
his debt to and wrote off the outstanding balance. Mr D didnt think this went far enough and 
referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ds complaint was then considered by one of our adjudicators. And he thought that what 
Lloyds had already done to put things right for Mr D was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicator and so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case.  
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it 
should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Lloyds says that it 
wrote off an amount greater than the overdraft interest, fees and charges that it added to   
Mr Ds account. So, on the face of things, it looks like Lloyds has done more than what I 
would expect a lender to do in these circumstances.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr D believes that Lloyds should do more. He believes hes paid more in total interest, fees 
and charges than Lloyds has said. And he thinks its unfair for Lloyds to record negative 
information on his credit file.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr D has said. I appreciate that Mr D also paid packaged 
account fees while he had a Premier account with Lloyds. But Mr D will be aware that Lloyds 
didnt uphold the complaint about the sale of this account. And Mr D doesnt appear to have 
referred a complaint about this matter to us at that time. 
So the packaged account fees arent part of what Lloyds needs to refund here as this 
overdraft complaint is about a separate and unrelated matter to the sale of Mr Ds Premier 
packaged bank account. And Im satisfied that the amount Lloyds wrote off exceeds the 
amount of overdraft interest, fees and charges that were added to the account. As this is the 
case, Im satisfied that no refund is warranted here.
I now turn to Mr Ds credit file. Mr D says Lloyds should remove the default and all negative 
information that it recorded on his credit file because it accepts that it shouldnt have 
provided him with an overdraft in the first place. 
Ive given careful thought to what Mr D has said. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account that Lloyds agreed to write Mr Ds 
outstanding balance off, which exceeds the overdraft interest, fees and charges paid, 
because of his mental health condition.  
So removing any adverse information here would require Lloyds to record that Mr Ds 
overdraft was settled in full and on time. And I think that it would be unfair to Lloyds and     
Mr D, unreasonable its logic and inaccurate if I asked Lloyds to amend Mr Ds credit file in 
this way  as that doesnt reflect what actually happened here.
By asking Lloyds to remove any adverse information here, Id be asking it to record 
inaccurate information. I think that such wholly inaccurate information would increase the 
chances of Mr D being able to access further funds  in circumstances where part of Mr Ds 
complaint has been that his mental health condition impacts his ability to manage his 
finances and his spending. 
I think that requiring Lloyds to amend Mr Ds credit file in the way hes suggested would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in Mr Ds best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
So having carefully thought about everything, including everything Mr D has told us, Im not 
going to ask Lloyds to amend Mr Ds credit file to remove any adverse information. This 
means that Lloyds can and should record that the default as a result of this overdraft has 
been partially satisfied.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already offered to do to put 
things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already done to  
put things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. So Im 
not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman