DRN-3205315
The complaint
Mr E complains that a finance agreement Sytner Group (Sytner) brokered was 
misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr E, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I understand that Mr E has another complaint registered with us against another business. 
The investigator explained the scope of that further complaint when she set out her second 
view in November 2021. Ill not be considering the points raised in that complaint as those 
are to be considered separately by this service.
Mr E says this agreement was misrepresented to him. If there was a false statement of fact 
and if that false statement of fact led Mr E to enter into an agreement he wouldnt otherwise 
have entered into, I would think the agreement had been misrepresented and Id ask Sytner 
to take some further action.
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence a false statement of fact was made. In this 
case its alleged by Mr E that the business knew he wanted an agreement that would put him 
in a position to be able to part exchange the car within 9 to 12 months, and to have equity in 
the car that could be used as a deposit or partial deposit toward a new agreement.
Mr E says that the business knew very well that was what he always did and that in all his 
dealings with them they strongly implied the agreement had been structured in such a 
fashion as to allow there to be such equity in the car. He said hes had many similar 
agreements with the dealership in the past.
Ive not seen evidence that Mr E was promised that from the agreement. The terms of the 
agreement Mr E entered were clearly set out. They detailed the down payment, the monthly 
instalments, and the total amount payable under the agreement. I think its reasonable to 
expect Mr E to have read and understood at least these headline figures.
Mr E has explained hes terminated agreements early on many occasions, so I think its also 
reasonable to suggest he would have been aware of the termination clause, that was 
nevertheless clearly set out on the front page, which required him to pay half of the amount 
due under the agreement before voluntarily terminating it. It was clear from the monthly 
payments, and the deposit, that the point at which Mr E would have paid half the sum due 
would come late, and that if he wished to terminate earlier hed have to make up the 
difference.
I can see that Mr E signed the Demands and Needs Questionnaire and the Pre-Contract 
Credit Information before he took out the agreement. When doing so he confirmed that hed 
had the key features of the finance agreement explained to him.
There was, unfortunately, no guarantee that the car Mr E was financing would hold its value 
and I dont therefore think it would be fair to suggest Sytner had a responsibility to explain or 
an ability to clearly understand the degree to which the cars value may diminish over the 
agreement.
Overall, whilst I was sorry to hear about Mr Es situation, Im afraid I dont think I have 
sufficient information to suggest this agreement was mis-sold to him. I understand that 
Sytner offered a price reduction on a new vehicle and a good will payment to Mr E. I think 
that was reasonable of them and Im not asking Sytner to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman