DRN-3955750
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the service they received from Great Lakes Insurance SE 
and the settlement of their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were on a cruise holiday. Mrs L fell and sustained a serious injury to her leg. 
Having received some basic treatment on board the ship she was taken to a hospital on land 
a few days later. She was admitted to a private hospital and asked to pay a deposit of 
€30, 000. Mrs L was treated at the hospital and underwent surgery.
Mr and Mrs L were in contact with Great Lakes. They agreed that surgery needed to take 
place but wanted Mrs L to move to a public hospital. The surgery took place before Mrs L 
was moved. Mrs L says that the public hospital had high levels of Covid infections and that 
she was taken to the private hospital because the public hospital was at capacity. Mrs L said 
that she had to leave the private hospital earlier than planned, as she was told by Great 
Lakes not to make further payments. So, she had to leave without medication and 
assistance.
Mrs L is unhappy that Great Lakes havent settled the claim and with the length of time its 
taking to sort things out. She says this has caused her a lot of distress and shes been out of 
pocket for some time. Mrs L complained to Great Lakes. In their final response letter Great 
Lakes said they were still looking into the medical costs.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He thought that 
Great Lakes should put things right by reimbursing Mrs L the amount of money theyd have 
paid for her treatment in a public hospital. He also recommended Great Lakes paid £300 as 
Mrs Ls claim hadnt been progressed promptly and shed not received updates.
Mr and Mrs L asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. Mrs L queried how the figure 
of £300 had been reached. She also reiterated that public hospitals were at capacity which 
was why shed been taken to a private hospital.
In January 2023 I issued my provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes have a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions provide cover for medical expenses and assistance. 
The policy doesnt cover treatment in a private hospital or clinic abroad where a 
suitable public or state facility is available.
Im upholding this complaint because:
Mrs L has explained that the port authorities arranged for her to be taken to a 
private hospital because the public hospital was at capacity, in part due to 
Covid-19. I find Mrs Ls testimony to be credible and persuasive. It was also 
around two days after shed fallen and shed received limited treatment. So, I 
think in the circumstances of this case, she acted reasonably by following the 
guidance of the local port authority to go to the private hospital.
Mrs L has explained that she felt under pressure to pay the deposit when the 
hospital staff became aggressive and insistent that she pay. Mrs L had 
suffered a serious injury and needed surgery. So, I think her decision to make 
that payment was also reasonable in the circumstances.
Great Lakes has said that the price Mrs L paid was extortionate and the 
surgery was completed before they were able to move her to a public 
hospital. But Great Lakes hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that a 
suitable public facility was available to treat Mrs L within the required 
timeframe. Based on the evidence available to me I dont think a suitable 
public or state facility was available.
Mrs L ought to have received more help and support whilst she was abroad. 
Based on the evidence available to me she didnt receive a good level of 
service during the time she was abroad and in need of help. And Great Lakes 
has taken too long to settle Mrs Ls claim. I think theyve had enough 
information to settle the claim for some time. Mrs L hasnt been kept properly 
updated and Ive seen no persuasive evidence to explain why its taking so 
long to settle the claim. This has caused Mrs L a lot of distress and worry 
because she was concerned that she wasnt going to get the money she had 
paid to the hospital back.
Its unclear exactly what expenses Mrs L has been reimbursed for already. I 
understand some payment has been made to her. If Great Lakes hasnt done 
so already it should also settle the claim for Mr and Mrs L cutting their trip 
short and the additional accommodation needed when Mrs L was taken from 
the cruise ship. As Mrs L didnt receive assistance when she was discharged 
from hospital, I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to cover the cost of the 
taxis she is claiming for.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct Great Lakes to put things right by paying:
Mrs Ls claim including the private medical expenses, additional 
accommodation costs and taxi costs. This is subject to the remaining policy 
terms and limits. Im satisfied Mrs L acted reasonably when accessing private 
treatment and, in any event, Im not persuaded a suitable public facility was 
available to treat her.
8% simple interest per year on the claim settlement figure from the date that 
her claim was submitted to the date of settlement. Mrs L has been out of pocket for a considerable sum of money whilst her claim has remained 
unpaid.
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
settling Mrs Ls claim and the poor service shes received whilst abroad. This 
has caused Mrs L unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
If Great Lakes considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much its 
taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one. Mr and Mrs L can use this to try and reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
Mr and Mrs L said they didnt have any further comments. Great Lakes didnt respond with 
any further comments on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L and Great Lakes didnt make any further comments on the outcome I reached 
in my provisional decision. That means theres no reason for me to reach a different 
outcome. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by paying:
Mrs Ls claim including the private medical expenses, additional 
accommodation costs and taxi costs. This is subject to the remaining policy 
terms and limits. Im satisfied Mrs L acted reasonably when accessing private 
treatment and, in any event, Im not persuaded a suitable public facility was 
available to treat her.
8% simple interest per year on the claim settlement figure from the date that 
her claim was submitted to the date of settlement. Mrs L has been out of 
pocket for a considerable sum of money whilst her claim has remained 
unpaid.
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
settling Mrs Ls claim and the poor service shes received whilst abroad. This 
has caused Mrs L unnecessary distress and inconvenience.If Great Lakes considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much its 
taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one. Mr and Mrs L can use this to try and reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman