DRN-1696213
The complaint
Mrs M complains, via her son, about the handling of her claim for subsidence damage to her 
home under building insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
What happened
Mrs Ms son (Mr M) said that during some home improvements at his parents home they 
noticed some cracks in the wall and sinking of the kitchen floor and in March 2019 they 
contacted RSA. RSA sent a surveyor who after a check reported there was no subsidence in 
the building and that the cracks were from failed lintels.
Mr M obtained a drainage report which he said showed root ingress within the system. He 
told RSA and it sent a drainage contractor who Mr M said confirmed what was already 
known about the damage and the need for a more intrusive survey. But he said RSA failed 
to address this and told him the works already proposed were whats required. Mr M thinks 
they are too limited to address the problems in his parents home.
Mr M says he was promised contact from a technician, but this hadnt happened, and as little 
progress was made he complained to RSA. Mr M said that during renovation works, internal 
pipework and the stopcock were replaced and there may have been an escape of water. But 
he said there was no leak in the underground supply. 
RSA said in order for it to consider a claim it must be demonstrated that an insured peril has 
taken place, and this is the policyholders responsibility. RSA said it had appointed its 
subsidence experts to inspect Mrs Ms home and they said the damage isnt covered by the 
policy. They said the front and rear damage is due to lintel failure and the solid floor slab has 
dropped. However, they did identify a possible issue with the drains and so RSA appointed 
drainage experts, who identified some tree root damage. RSA authorised these repairs but 
said issues with the drain didnt appear to have caused problems with the property.
Mr M complained to RSA that it had avoided the main problem, that the floor had collapsed, 
which he thought had been caused by an escape of water. He wanted RSA to cover his 
parents expenses while out of their home prior to completion of the drainage works. 
RSA said it had appointed another surveyor who found no signs of a leak or signs of 
moisture in the kitchen. RSA decided that Mrs Ms home had been properly checked. It said 
the time taken over the claim was justified by the various in-depth investigations that had 
been required and this had caused unavoidable inconvenience to Mrs M.
Mr M said in August 2019 RSA instructed another surveyor to inspect the damage and 
although Mr M attended, the visit was cancelled. He said the family were all disappointed 
with RSAs performance on the claim and his parents had stayed away for the duration 
paying for accommodation and council tax on two properties. He said they have decided to 
carry out the repair work themselves so they can return home.
RSA said the drainage work took about a day to complete and wouldnt have affected the 
supply of water as it only involved a gully repair. RSA declined to pay Mr Ms parents 
expenses. RSA said that it didnt require a further site investigation as it was satisfied the 
damage wasnt due to an insured peril. 
The investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She thought it was 
reasonable for RSA to rely on expert findings to determine that the damage wasnt due to 
subsidence or an escape of water. But she said RSAs customer service could have been 
better and recommended payment of £100 compensation to Mrs M.
Mr M requested an ombudsman review the complaint as he said RSA had taken no further 
action. He said a core sample of the slab concerning the sunken floor should be taken as he 
remained of the view that it had failed due to water ingress. He said his parents should be 
compensated for the costs theyve incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about the health problems Mr Ms parents have faced.
Mr M said RSA has made no attempt to address the underlying cause of the damage to his 
parents home. RSA said that it has relied on expert reports which dont show that there is an 
insured cause to the sinking floor. For a claim to succeed it has to fall within one of the 
insured perils within the policy and it is the policyholders responsibility to prove this. Mr M 
thinks there has been movement in his parents home due to subsidence or an escape of 
water. 
RSAs drainage contractor reported that there was roots ingress in the drain and RSA 
agreed to fix this. However, both of RSAs surveyors have dismissed subsidence or an 
escape of water as causational factors in their reports. 
Where there is a disagreement about the cause of damage to a building we are guided by 
the available expert evidence. In this case the only expert evidence is that provided by RSA 
from the two separate surveyors that it instructed. 
The initial surveyors Technical Report followed an inspection of the damage. Ive considered 
this and see it found that the damage above the door was due to flexing of the arch, and the 
damage above the rear door was due to lintel failure. The report commented on a crack in 
the kitchen floor but said that without any damage to the loadbearing walls the damage 
wouldnt be covered. The surveyor said that further site investigations wouldnt add any 
benefit as there is no damage to the external walls and no evidence of active subsidence. 
RSAs second surveyor subsequently checked for an escape of water, but found no 
evidence.
Mr M said RSA had since agreed to have a new survey done on his parents home, but it 
was cancelled without any notice. RSA said this was arranged by mistake and wasnt 
necessary. There was some confusion as to whether a soil report was called for or required. 
But RSA said it didn't consider further site investigations were needed as the damage wasnt 
due to an insured peril. 
Based on the evidence I have seen from the surveyors reports I think it was fair and 
reasonable for RSA to rely on these reports in deciding that there was no insured peril in 
which to engage Mrs Ms building policy.Even though I havent seen evidence that another expert inspection of Mrs Ms home was 
necessary, the short notice cancellation of a visit was very inconvenient, and I think the £100 
compensation recommended by the investigator is reasonable in the circumstances. I 
havent found that RSA caused unnecessary delays in its handling of the claim.
RSA suggested that Mr M could contact a construction professional to report on his parents 
home and it would look into things again and offer assistance if he is able to establish the 
cause of the damage. Mr M thinks RSA should instruct a surveyor again. I think RSA has 
already done this and is entitled to rely on the findings in deciding its response to the claim. 
However, should Mr M engage his own surveyor and that expert reach different conclusions 
about the damage, then I would expect RSA to consider the report and reconsider its 
position on the claim. 
It would be open to Mr M to bring a further complaint on behalf of his mother should he 
remain dissatisfied with RSAs response to any expert report he provides. As things stand at 
present, I dont require RSA to take any further action on Mrs Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman