DRN-2696980
The complaint
Mr R complains that Plus500 unfairly closed the positions he had opened in USOil. causing 
him a loss.
What happened
Mr R opened four long positions in USOil on 19 May 2020. His positions were closed on 20 
May 2020 due to a margin call without prior notice to Mr R. He complained to Plus500 
because he didnt think it had acted fairly. 
Plus500 didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mr Rs positions had been closed due to a 
margin call. It said that on 20 May 2020 the first sell rate received was 0.18 which meant that 
the equity in Mr Rs account dropped to -£470.96 as against a required maintenance margin 
of £115.76.
Plus500 made a goodwill offer of £69.80 based on the best market rate at the time the 
positions were closed. Mr R didnt accept this although Plus500 paid the amount to him.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but thought Plus500 had dealt with Mr R 
fairly. He said that as Plus500 priced its spread in line with market changes he couldnt say it 
had treated Mr R unfairly using the price that it had used. He said he didnt agree with Mr R 
that the price was artificially set, as it was based on the market with Plus500 adding its 
spread, as it was entitled to do. 
The investigator also pointed out that if Plus500 had used the price the market was showing 
of 0.85 without adding its spread there would still have been a margin call. He said that 
whilst Plus500 will often send out a notice if there is a risk that clients will fall below the 
margin level - so they can increase their balance - it isnt always able to do so, especially 
where markets are moving quickly.
The investigator noted that Mr Rs new broker didnt allow him to trade on margin for options 
but said that Plus500 could provide a service that allowed clients to trade on margin.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. In summary he made the following points:
The positions would self-evidently close out with the spreads concerned even if the 
price of oil had moved substantially in favour of the trade out of hours, due to the 
spreads involved.
This combined with the fact that there was no opportunity to post margin guaranteed 
position closure at a loss in almost any circumstance.
As Mr R didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has strong feelings about what he thinks Plus500 did wrong and I understand why he 
argues it has acted unfairly. However, to uphold his complaint I need to be satisfied that it is 
more likely than not Plus500 did something wrong based on the evidence that has been 
provided, taking into account relevant law, regulation and industry practice. Where there is a 
dispute between the parties my findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is 
more likely than not.
Having considered the available evidence, I am not persuaded that Plus500 did do anything 
wrong.
I think there are two main issues in this complaint. Firstly, the prices that Plus500 was 
showing for the spread, which led to the margin call. Secondly, the closing of the trades 
because of the margin call without any notice to Mr R.
The prices that Plus500 used
Mr Rs positions were closed at a price of 0.18. I understand his unhappiness about this in 
that the market rate at the time was 0.85. There is nothing wrong with brokers adding a 
margin to the market spread, in effect the difference is the amount they make for the service 
provided. Other brokers may just apply the market spread and then charge commission on 
trades.
I note at the time his positions were closed the market spread had widened considerably to 
2.52 (3.37- 0.85) from the narrower spread when he opened his positions. This compares to 
Plus500s spread at the time of 3.85 (4.03 - 0.18). The difference in spread between the 
market and Plus500 is reasonably wide but it has said it is within its tolerances. 
However, whilst Plus500 has said that the spread was within its tolerances, it offered and 
paid Mr R £69.80 because it didnt feel the rates it provided truly reflected the market. 
In other words, its position appears to be that, whilst it has not accepted it did anything 
wrong in closing Mr Rs positions based on its price of 0.18, given the difference between 
that figure and the market at the time it feels applying the market rate to Mr Rs positions is 
fair. It is entitled to apply a margin to the market rate, so didnt need to pay redress based on 
the market rate of 0.85. In doing so, arguably it has acted more fairly that it needed to.
Mr Rs positions were subject to what was happening in the market. The prices for USOil 
had dropped at the time the market opened on 20 May 2020. Even if the price that Plus500 
applied of 0.18 was too low and it should have used a higher price Mr R would still have 
found himself in the same position. Even using the market sell rate of 0.85  which I think is 
generous to Mr R given Plus500 were entitled to add a margin to the market rate  he would 
still not have had enough margin and Plus500 would still have had the right to close his 
positions.
Mr R argues that position closure would have occurred in almost every scenario, even if the 
price of oil had moved in his favour after markets closed, due to the spread. He has not 
provided evidence to support what he has said. In any event Plus500 had no control over 
the market spread widening.  I acknowledge that Plus500 did have control over its own 
spread, which was linked to the market but, as I have indicated, I am not persuaded that its 
market spread was unreasonable.
The margin call
In its Key Facts summary at the start of its User Agreement, Plus500 explains the 
importance of margins and states it isnt obligated to send a margin call. Then, clause 14.1 
of the User Agreement states:
If the prices quoted on the Trading Platform change such that the total difference payable by you pursuant to all your open transactions equals to exceeds the total maintenance 
margin for all such transactions, or the amount in your trading account is equal to or less 
than the maintenance margin for all your open transaction(s), you acknowledge that we have 
the right to immediately close or partially close any and all of your open transactions whether 
at a loss or a profit and liquidate your trading account in accordance with section 19.4 
without any notice.
This type of provision, which allows for Plus500 to close open positions without notice, is a 
normal provision in broker agreements. Whilst brokers will often give notice of a margin call 
giving clients the opportunity of adding money to their trading account to avoid positions 
being closed, there is usually no requirement to give notice. The above clause makes it clear 
there was no requirement to give notice, as does the following clause (14.2) which states 
Plus 500 may give notice but isnt obligated to do so.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr R is unhappy his positions were closed without notice to him of a 
margin call, Plus500 didnt do anything wrong in doing this.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman