DRN-4401332
The complaint
Mr S has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund £6,000 for a card payment he 
didnt make.
What happened
Mr S has told us his Barclays debit card was retained by a cash machine. After this 
happened, he says he transferred money from his current account into his savings account. 
When he next checked his account, he saw that £6,000 was missing and he reported this to 
Barclays.
Barclays wasnt convinced Mr S had lost his debit card. Their information showed that 
someone had changed the PIN on the debit card, made a number of transfers between 
Mr Ss savings and current accounts, then used the debit card for a £6,000 transaction. The 
following morning the debit card had been used at a cash machine to withdraw £80. Mr S 
had initially confirmed this was him. Barclays told Mr S they werent going to refund him.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed the 
evidence including Barclays information about Mr Ss use of mobile banking around the time 
of the disputed transaction. Overall she felt it must have been Mr S who authorised the 
transaction.
Still disappointed, Mr S has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ss complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence Barclays provided as well as 
what Mr S has told us. 
I dont believe these transactions were carried out by anyone else. I say this because:
Mr S had told Barclays hed lost his debit card at a specific retailers cash machine on 
14 May 2023. Barclays evidence shows Mr S making a small contactless purchase 
at the same retailer at 20:18 that day. Ive seen no evidence that Mr Ss debit card 
was retained at a cash machine.
Barclays evidence indicates that the transfers between Mr Ss current and savings 
accounts were conducted between 21:11 and 21:27 on 14 May 2023. All these 
transactions (bar one funds transfer) were completed on Mr Ss registered mobile 
device. During the same time period, there was a balance enquiry and a PIN change 
on Mr Ss debit card at another retailers cash machine. Mr S denies this was him. 
The online transfer  not conducted on Mr Ss mobile banking app  clearly happens 
in sequence and within four minutes of the preceding mobile banking transfer. I 
believe this demonstrates co-ordination. This transfer takes place using the same 
internet service provider and using practically the same IP address. The small 
difference that does exist would be accounted for by the use of a different device.
The transaction for £6,000 was carried out using the genuine card as Ive seen 
Barclays evidence that demonstrates this.
The following morning Mr S has confirmed he used his debit card to withdraw £80 at 
a cash machine. This would be impossible if his card had been retained the 
preceding day. I accept Mr S may be mistaken about using his debit card on the 
morning of 15 May and merely got confused.
However Im still convinced he either made or knew about all the money being 
transferred from his accounts. These transfers enabled the debit card to be used for 
a £6,000 payment.
I appreciate Mr S vehemently denies transferring money back into his current account and 
carrying out the disputed transaction of £6,000. However the fact all these events happen 
within 20 minutes suggests quite a bit co-ordination. Whilst Mr S may not have actually used 
his debit card, I believe he was aware that it was being used. I suspect, but cant be sure, 
Mr S had allowed someone else or was persuaded to allow someone else to use his debit 
card and then subsequently regretted what had happened.
Overall Im satisfied theres sufficient evidence to show Mr S authorised these transactions. I 
wont be asking Barclays to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman