DRN-3462131
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint relates to a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage she held with Skipton Building 
Society and a new mortgage application she made when she wanted to port the interest rate 
product to a different BTL property. She is unhappy that while Skipton initially said this would 
be possible, the application for the new mortgage was eventually turned down. This meant 
that Mrs P didnt receive the partial refund of the early repayment charge (ERC) that she was 
expecting. Mrs P is also unhappy with the communication and service she received during 
this process.
Mrs P is represented in her complaint by a relative, but for ease I will refer to all comments 
being made by her. 
What happened
Mrs P arranged the BTL mortgage with Skipton in the summer of 2019. Attached to the 
mortgage was an interest rate product, which meant that an ERC was payable if the 
mortgage was fully or partially repaid before the end of October 2024.
In late 2020 Mrs P was considering selling the property and enquiries were made about 
repaying the mortgage and the options available. 
In December 2020 an elderly relative died and left a property to Mrs Ps husband and 
another relative. In March 2021 Mr P contacted Skipton, with Mrs Ps permission, to discuss 
the mortgage further. In this conversation he confirmed that the mortgaged property had 
been sold and exchange would happen in the next week or so. He went on to explain that he 
had inherited a share in a property, and they wanted to raise some money against it to buy 
out the other party. However, there was an ongoing subsidence claim on the property. Mr P 
was transferred to the new lending department to discuss the possibilities in more detail. 
Information was taken from Mr P about Mrs Ps financial and business situation and about 
the property. It was confirmed that although it was a port, the existing mortgage was repaid 
in the process, so the ERC was due, and a new mortgage was applied for on the new 
property. If the port was allowed, then all or part of the ERC would be refunded. It was 
confirmed that. given the subsidence in the property, a physical valuation would need to be 
done and whether Skipton would agree to lend would be down to what the valuer said about 
the property. Mr P was also told that the chances were that the valuer would want some sort 
of structural report. The valuer would then consider the information and say yes, or no. 
Skipton also explained that if the valuer said yes, it might recommend a retention; it was 
explained what a retention was. It was again reiterated that the application would be down to 
the valuation and what the valuers wanted off the back of that.
A few days later a decision in principle was issued. However, it was repeated that the 
application would depend on a satisfactory valuation. 
On 13 March 2021 Mrs P went through a mortgage application. A mortgage illustration was 
created during the interview and the details of the proposed mortgage were set out. 
Following this, the process from that point onward was explained. It was confirmed that once 
the documentation needed was provided the application would be considered, and if 
everything was in order, a valuation would be arranged. The application would then depend 
on what the valuation came back with, given the ongoing insurance claim. It was explained 
that if everything was satisfactory on the valuation, then a formal mortgage offer would be 
issued. However, it was dependant on what the valuation came back with and it was 
possible that the valuer might say that the property was not suitable to lend on until it was 
repaired. That was a risk Mrs P was taking, as if the valuer said it was not suitable to lend 
on, the valuation fee was not refundable. The adviser checked that Mrs P understood and if 
she wanted to go over anything again; she said she understood and didnt have any 
questions. 
On 25 May 2021 the mortgage was repaid and an ERC was charged.
At the beginning of June a valuation was completed on the property Mrs P was proposing to 
port the interest rate product to. This confirmed that there had been some structural 
movement and that there was a tree present that was a potential risk to the property. More 
information was needed, especially relating to the tree. 
Mrs P provided a letter dated 11 June 2021 from the loss adjusters dealing with the 
insurance claim. It confirmed that the arborists had recommended several trees and shrubs 
be removed, including the large oak tree on neighbouring land, but it had not been removed. 
The monitoring had shown further movement and so discussions about removing the oak 
tree were ongoing. The loss adjuster confirmed that it was planning to ask the insurer for 
permission to complete the repairs in September 2021, which might not include 
underpinning, despite the oak tree remaining in place. However, the insurer might opt to 
continue to monitor and pursue the removal of the tree. 
The letter was forwarded to the valuer on 14 June 2021. The valuer confirmed the following 
day that as the property was still moving and there were questions about the tree works, it 
couldnt recommend the property as suitable security. Skipton told Mrs P the same day that 
her application couldnt progress. 
A conversation was had with Mr P about the situation and Skipton said that from its point of 
view, it didnt know until a valuation was done whether a property was going to meet its 
requirements for security. It confirmed that if the external valuer doesnt give a valuation that 
matched the application, it couldnt proceed. Mr P was incorrectly told to raise any concerns 
he had with the content of the valuation, direct with the valuer. As Mr and Mrs P were 
unhappy that the application was declined, a complaint was raised.
Skipton responded to the complaint in its final response letter of 24 June 2021. It said that 
Mrs P and Mr P were told the mortgage application being agreed was dependant on the 
valuation. That valuation said a tree report was needed before a valuation could be done. In 
light of the information Mr and Mrs P supplied from the loss adjuster, the valuer concluded 
that the property didnt meet lending criteria. However, Skipton offered Mrs P £250 
compensation for any inconvenience shed suffered, as it thought that it should have set out 
the process more clearly at the outset and managed her expectations. In relation to Mrs Ps 
continued hope to port the interest product to a new mortgage, Skipton set out what the 
valuer would need to reconsider the propertys suitability. 
A further letter was sent to Mrs P on 29 June 2021 confirming what the valuer wanted before 
it could conclude the property was suitable security. Skipton said that everything so far 
indicated that the mortgage was affordable, and the crux of the application was whether the 
property was suitable for mortgage purposes. What the insurer needed to provide 
confirmation of was set out. Skipton also said that if Mrs P were to renew the application, it 
would cover the cost of a new valuation. Mr P contacted Skipton again in the middle of September 2021. He told Skipton that the 
insurer had agreed repair works as there had been no progressive movement in the previous 
24 months. However, it would be at least eight months before the certificate (a certificate of 
structural adequacy) Skipton needed would be ready. It was also confirmed that the property 
had been renovated and was tenanted with a monthly rent of £2,600. As such, Mr P put 
forward that the valuer needed to rethink the monthly rental amount included in the June 
2021 valuation. Mr P asked how long it would take to complete the port in light of the porting 
window. 
The following day Skipton confirmed that the porting window was six months from the date 
the original mortgage was repaid. However, in the circumstances, it was happy to extend it 
to a year. 
Skipton also contacted the valuers for an opinion. The valuer said that it had reviewed what 
had been said, but as a minimum it would be advisable to obtain confirmation from the 
insurer that further structural damage would be covered and the insurance policy would be 
available going forward under normal terms. This was confirmed to Mrs P a few days later.
Mrs P provided a copy of the insurance document for the property. However, the valuers 
were not satisfied with what was provided. It said that while it showed that there was cover in 
place, it didnt confirm that cover would continue to be provided, if the neighbouring oak tree 
couldnt be removed. The valuers also asked if any progress had been made on the scope of 
remedial works that had been reported would be agreed that month. The valuer confirmed 
again that at that time it would not recommend the property as suitable security.
A further conversation was had with Mr P about the insurance provision, and it was 
confirmed that the valuers wanted confirmation from the insurer that cover was going to be 
renewed each year and any future claim would be agreed. Mr P told us that he was told this 
is all that was required for the application to be accepted.
A letter was provided at the beginning of November 2021 from the insurer, which stated that 
it was going to pay for the subsidence damage. It didnt confirm that ongoing cover would be 
provided. Mr P said that he and Mrs P considered that Skipton had everything it needed for 
the mortgage to go ahead. It was confirmed that a further appointment would be needed for 
the application to start again. Mr P wasnt happy about this, as he said nothing had changed 
since the previous appointment eight months earlier. 
Skipton confirmed on 9 November 2021 that the next step was a mortgage interview and 
that Mrs P would need to be involved. This took place on 17 November 2021, with additional 
conversations over the following two days. There were some questions regarding Mrs Ps 
change in employment, but it was established that the application could proceed. It was 
highlighted that the mortgage offer would be subject to a satisfactory valuation.
On 1 December 2021 Skipton confirmed to Mr P that it had instructed the valuation. It asked 
whether the structural work had been completed to the property. Mr P confirmed that it had 
been done and the insurer had agreed that it was ok to move forward with the mortgage. 
The valuation was completed on 8 December 2021. The valuer remained concerned about 
the effect on the property of the oak tree in the neighbouring garden. It asked that a report 
be obtained from a structural engineer or a chartered building surveyor and any 
recommendations should be carried out under professional supervision. It said at that time, 
the property only had a notional value for mortgage purposes.Skipton spoke to Mr P the following day. It questioned the bank statements provided and 
explained the need for a structural report. Mr P said one was being produced anyway, and 
he would send in a copy when it was received. However, he expressed dissatisfaction that 
new evidence was being required, and questioned why it hadnt been requested when the 
first valuation had been done. 
The engineering report said that the property wasnt stable and would not be unless the 
recommended works were done to the neighbouring oak tree. The valuers confirmed that it 
still wouldnt recommend the property as suitable security for a mortgage.
Following discussion with Mr P, Skipton asked the valuers whether it would recommend the 
property as security if the insurer provided confirmation that it would provide full coverage for 
the property going forward. It said this would include covering any potential claim due to 
structural movement as a result of the neighbouring tree. The valuer responded explaining 
that generally lenders were not willing to accept properties subject to ongoing movement or 
where a claim for movement is in progress. In addition, it confirmed that in such a situation, 
until the situation regarding the movement is resolved, the property would be of little interest 
to purchasers, except perhaps a limited number of speculative investors. 
Skipton explained to Mr P that despite the insurer saying cover was still being provided at 
that time, the valuer had determined that the property was not suitable security on the basis 
that the tree causing the subsidence movement was still in place. As such, the property was 
still going to be at risk of further movement. So until the claim was settled, the property 
wouldnt be able to be sold and the valuers had said it was not suitable security. This meant 
that Skipton wasnt able to lend to Mrs P. 
A complaint was made, and Skipton issued a new complaint response on 20 December 
2021. It said that it wasnt going to re-examine the complaint points that had been raised and 
addressed in the earlier complaint. It was satisfied that it had been explained since that point 
the new property had to meet lending criteria. It also considered it had acted reasonably in 
extending the usual six-month porting window to twelve months. Skipton said that the 
information provided in September 2021 didnt satisfy the valuer that the property was 
suitable security. However, Mr and Mrs P insisted that the application progressed, and 
another valuation was done. Following this, it was established that the oak tree wasnt being 
removed and remained an ongoing risk for the property, so the valuers werent willing to 
provide a valuation. Skipton said that it had questioned and put forward alternative solutions 
to the problem, but the valuers said it wouldnt give a valuation given that the property was 
subject to ongoing movement. Skipton didnt consider it had done anything wrong. 
Mrs P wasnt satisfied with Skiptons response and asked us to look into her complaint. One 
of our investigators did, but she didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She 
considered that Skipton had acted within its policies and the advice it received from the 
expert it had commissioned to value the property. As such, the application had been given 
fair and reasonable consideration and she couldnt find that Skipton had been wrong to 
decline it. In relation to the service Mrs P had received, the investigator concluded the 
compensation Skipton had offered was appropriate. 
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said that she was charged a 
valuation fee of £595 when Skipton had no intention of lending and she was strung along for 
months. Comment was made on the valuation and that Mrs P didnt believe the opinion was 
not unbiased, as the valuer was wholly owned by Skipton. She pointed out that the fact that 
Skipton had paid them £250 proved it had messed her about and she thought that, at the 
least, the investigator would have mediated a refund of the £595 valuation fee as well as 
securing an offer for when the subsidence works were concluded.The investigator considered Mrs Ps comments, but she wasnt persuaded to change her 
conclusions. She didnt agree that Skipton had never intended to lend and highlighted that 
the application couldnt have been considered unless a valuation was completed. She 
confirmed that the evidence didnt indicate that Skipton misled Mrs P into believing the 
lending was guaranteed or the application would be successful. 
Mrs P remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly explain that no-one is entitled to borrow money and a lender doesnt have to 
lend. So the simple fact that Mrs Ps application was declined, doesnt indicate that Skipton 
did anything wrong. In addition, lenders are allowed to decide what risks they are willing to 
accept when determining what types of properties they will lend against. There is nothing 
wrong with this and as long as the criteria are applied fairly to all applications, we wouldnt 
look to interfere with any decisions made. I would also comment that many lenders wont 
give a mortgage on a property that has suffered subsidence in the past, let alone when a 
subsidence claim hasnt been resolved. 
Mrs P has commented that the valuation wasnt independent as the firm of valuers is wholly 
owned by Skipton. I have looked int the relationship between Skipton and the valuers. I 
would confirm that the valuers are not owned by Skipton, although it is owned by another 
business within the business group that Skipton is a member of. As such, Skipton wouldnt 
determine how the valuers worked or the decisions it made. I am satisfied that the valuers 
would rightly be considered independent of Skipton for the purposes of my consideration of 
this complaint. 
Throughout, Mr and Mrs P were told that their application would be subject to the valuation 
and that the subsidence claim might mean that the valuers would have concerns. It was 
made clear that there was no guarantee that the application would be accepted, and it would 
depend on whether the valuer considered the property was suitable security. It was also 
explained that if the valuer didnt consider it was suitable security, the mortgage wouldnt be 
agreed. 
I would explain at this point that lenders are not property experts. As such, they will 
commission an external third-party expert to complete the property assessment to determine 
whether it is suitable security for the mortgage applied for. As long as the lender 
commissions a suitably qualified expert it is entitled to rely on its advice and opinion. In this 
case Skipton commissioned a business registered with the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors to complete the valuation and so it was entitled to rely on its advice that further 
investigations into the structural problems with the property were needed. 
The valuer decided on both occasions that, due to the evidence of structural movement, it 
needed further information. On both occasions it was set out to Mr and Mrs P what was 
needed. While some information was provided, not always quite what had been requested. 
The valuers reached the conclusion on both occasions that based on the further evidence, 
the property wasnt suitable security. Skipton was entitled to rely on those opinions and so I 
cant find it was wrong to turn down the application on either occasion. 
Following the application being declined for the first time, Skipton confirmed that if the 
situation changed in the future the application could be restarted. It allowed that to happen when Mr and Mrs P wanted it to. In addition, it arranged the second valuation at no cost to 
Mr and Mrs P, which it didnt have to do. It also extended the window for the porting to be 
completed. Again, not something it had to do, but a very reasonable decision in the 
circumstances. 
I know that Mr and Mrs P wont agree, but I dont consider that Skipton acted inappropriately 
when it declined Mrs Ps applications. However, it has accepted that it didnt provide the 
level of service it should have and that it didnt manage Mrs Ps expectations as it should 
have. While I do consider Skipton made it clear that the application might not be accepted at 
an early stage, I accept that the level of service could have been better, especially in relation 
to the matter of Mrs P being directed to the valuers with her concerns about the contents of 
the valuation. So I agree an award for the inconvenience suffered should be made. I 
consider that the £250 offered by Skipton is sufficient in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 
23 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman