DRN-3328051
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing 
her overdraft from £200 to £4,500 in a matter of months. 
What happened
Miss C had 28 online applications approved by Lloyds to increase her overdraft from £200 to 
£4,500 over a period of 7 months. Miss C complained to Lloyds that her overdraft was 
unaffordable and she couldnt afford to pay the debt back. Lloyds disagreed that the lending 
was unaffordable. It said all applications were credit scored, Miss C had a healthy salary 
coming into her account each month and there was no adverse information recorded on her 
credit file. But to support Miss C Lloyds agreed to refund all overdraft charges and interest 
applied to her account amounting to £885.63. This was used to reduce Miss Cs outstanding 
debt.
Miss C was unsatisfied with this  she wants some of her debt written off, so she brought her 
complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that because of the number of 
overdraft increases approved in a short period of time that Lloyds should have done some 
additional checks. Our adjudicator thought if this had been done Lloyds couldve identified 
Miss C was suffering from mental health issues and appropriate support given rather than 
Miss Cs debt spiralling. Our adjudicator thought that Lloyds should write off some of the 
debt.
Lloyds disagreed  it says what it had already done is in-line with what this service would 
usually recommend to ensure a fair outcome and believed the debt outstanding should be 
repaid as Miss C received the benefit of those funds.  
So Lloyds asked for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional decision on 18 
January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold 
Miss Cs complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before 
I reached a final decision. Both parties have confirmed they have received my provisional 
decision but neither party has come back with any further information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it 
did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they 
would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put 
a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they 
shouldnt have. This service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we 
cover. And my role isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour 
 thats the role of the regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
In this case, Miss C was left with an outstanding balance on her account, once all 
adjustments had been made, and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
applied by Lloyds for providing her with an overdraft facility. So while Miss C has been left 
with a balance and she might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally 
expect it to do here if Id found the overdraft increases were unaffordable.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
had made a mistake, we can and will tell it to do something different and/or something more 
if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to do in the 
circumstances of that individual case.
 
Miss C says Lloyds should do something different here. She says Lloyds should write off her 
debt. Ive thought about what Miss C has said and the personal circumstances shes made 
us aware of at the time she was applying for the increases and whether this is a reason for 
departing from our normal approach to putting things right in cases such as hers. All the 
interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have been removed from what she 
now needs to pay. So what Miss C is left with to repay are the funds which she used and 
benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left her with a debt 
that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. Indeed this is supported by Miss Cs 
statements at the time which show significant transactions to parties other than existing 
creditors. 
And although Miss C has told us she was suffering from mental health issues at the time she 
applied for the increases in her overdraft limit, there is no evidence that Lloyds was aware of 
this or that her suffering from mental health issues meant the lending wasnt affordable. I 
accept there was a large number of applications over a relatively short period of time, but 
again this doesnt mean the lending wasnt affordable. 
The checks Lloyds carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Miss C would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. I accept that 
Miss Cs financial position may well have been worse than the credit check carried out 
showed or in any information she disclosed to Lloyds at the time. And it is possible that 
further checks might have told Lloyds this. But Lloyds was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
credit check it carried out. There wasnt any adverse information shown on the credit check 
and Miss C had a healthy salary paid into her account which mainly bought her account back 
into credit, and within 2 months of this changing Lloyds declined all further applications for 
increases. So I dont think the circumstances warrant us asking Lloyds to do anything 
different here. 
So Im currently satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put things right for 
Miss C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im currently not 
requiring it to do anything more.
As neither party has provided any further new evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
do not require Lloyds to do anything more and Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman