DRN-1338326
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
June 1998. Miss C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
In June 1998 Miss C applied for a credit card from Lloyds. At the same time she was sold a 
PPI policy. The policy covered Miss C against being unable to work due to an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. It would have paid a monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding 
card balance for up to 12 months if Miss C had made a successful claim. The credit card and 
the PPI were taken out during a branch meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. Miss C disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss C says she was pressured into buying the PPI because she was told she had to take 
PPI in order to have the credit card.
Lloyds has shown us a copy of the application form signed by Miss C. I can see there is a 
section headed, Payment Protection Plan. Within this section it states, Tick here if 
required. I can see there is a box that has been marked with a tick.
Other sections with different options have  similar boxes which have not been ticked.
I cant be sure who completed the form and it may have been a member of Lloyds staff. But 
I can see the form contains a lot of personal information so its likely a discussion took place 
before the form was passed to Miss C for her to check and sign. I dont know what was said 
to Miss C about the PPI but the form presents the PPI as optional and I cant see anything 
on the application to indicate it needed to be taken out in order to secure the credit. 
So, weighing everything up, I think Lloyds likely made it clear that Miss C didnt have to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this after so many years.
Lloyds has told us its representative shouldve given Miss C advice about the policy and 
recommended it to her. That being the case Lloyds had a duty to ensure it was right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time I think it was. I say this for the 
following reasons:-
Miss C was working and seems to have been eligible for the policy. So she could benefit 
from the cover it gave her.
Miss C wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. For example she 
didnt have any medical conditions that had already been diagnosed and wouldnt be 
covered.
The policy couldve paid a benefit for up to 12 months if Miss C became too ill to work or lost 
her job. Miss C has told us she would get some sick pay from her employer, but the policy 
benefit would be paid in addition to this and would potentially have lasted for longer than her 
sick pay. So Miss C wouldve found the policy useful if things went wrong.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it looks like Miss C was interested in this type of cover, and from what Ive seen it 
seems suitable given her circumstances. So I dont think any better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it.
In summary I think Lloyds made Miss C aware of the PPI policy and that it was optional.        
I think it most likely Miss C chose to take it out. The policy seems to have been suitable for 
her and even if Lloyds had given Miss C all the clear information about the policy that it 
should have, I still think Miss C wouldve bought it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. And I make no award 
against Lloyds Bank Plc.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman