DRN-3225728
The complaint
Mr T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr T booked a trip abroad for himself and his two sons on 23 January 2020 and took out 
single trip travel insurance with Insurefor.com, insured by Ageas, on 24 January 2020. They 
were due to travel from 20 to 23 March 2020. He says the flights and hotel were booked 
separately with the providers.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad.
Mr T and his sons didnt go on the trip. Mr T provided a letter from the airline saying the flight 
costs werent refundable and a letter from the hotel showing hed been charged as a no 
show. Mr T says the hotel costs werent refundable and because it was still operating at the 
time he didnt travel he hadnt contacted the hotel to see if it would refund in the 
circumstances. He made a claim for the flight and hotel costs totalling £286.79.
Ageas declined the claim for two reasons:
the policy didnt cover cancellation of a trip due to the FCDO advising against 
nonessential travel abroad, and
the policy excluded cancellation claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the 
government of any country. Ageas said the UK governments announcement on 
17 March 2020 meant non-essential travel abroad was banned and the travel 
restriction of that date was a prohibitive regulation so the claim fell within the 
exclusion.
Mr T complained to us. He said the policy also excluded travel to a country where the FCDO 
had advised against all but essential travel so the FCDO advice of 17 March 2020 should 
override the exclusion Ageas relied on.
Our investigator said Ageas unfairly declined the claim as the policy terms meant if Mr T had 
travelled abroad against the FCDO advice he wouldnt have been covered but his 
cancellation claim wasnt covered for the same FCDO advice which left Mr T in an unfair 
position. He said Ageas should reconsider the claim.
Ageas disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive seen no evidence that Mr T contacted the airline and hotel to cancel his bookings but as 
he was due to travel on 20 March 2020, and didnt, Ive taken that as the date of 
cancellation.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain 
information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which the insurer has provided as 
relating to Mr Ts policy says on page one under the heading What is not insured.
Travel against Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice.
The terms and conditions of Mr T policy say on page six under the cancellation and 
curtailment section:
What you are covered for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the 
period of insurance because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at 
your home; or
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
Mr Ts trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This means his claim isnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of his policy.Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr Ts insurance policy, but I dont think he held 
any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances he found himself in.
Ive moved on to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of 
the case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law.
The contract  the terms and conditions of the policy - between Mr T and the insurer say on 
page 13 under the General exclusions heading:
We will not pay anything directly or indirectly caused by:
your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit of 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against all, or all but essential travel.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for 
claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer 
to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the 
case here and Ill explain why.
This is because Mr Ts policy also says, at page six under the cancellation and curtailment 
heading:
What you are NOT covered for
claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
Ageas has said the 17 March 2020 FCDO advice against all but essential travel was a 
prohibitive regulation but I dont think thats correct. FCDO advice is just that, it cant be 
enforced by law. I dont think that on 20 March 2020, the date when Mr T didnt go his trip, 
there were British government regulations in force that would have had the force of law 
which would have prevented Mr T from travelling.
However, Ive looked at the situation in the country where Mr T had been due to travel to. On 
16 March 2020, the president of the relevant country declared a 30 day state of emergency 
in order to limit the spread of Covid-19 and on 19 March 2020 its parliament approved the 
decree. Border restrictions were in place and restrictions became more severe with a 
quarantine requirement for travellers from Britain. I understand those restrictions had the 
force of law. Which means on the date Mr T was due to travel there were prohibitive 
regulations on travel by the government of the country he had been due to travel to. On 
21 March, the day after Mr T would have travelled, foreign citizens were forbidden from 
entering the country.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr Ts claim. I think 
a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions 
abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on the cancellation of the holiday.
But at the time Mr T was due to travel there were government restrictions in force at his 
intended destination affecting incoming travellers.
So not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr Ts holiday not covered as listed, 
insured events under his policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply 
to the circumstances of his claim anyway.Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but I dont think his claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of his policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which 
I could fairly ask Ageas to accept his claim.
Even if the circumstances of the claim were covered, Mr T hasnt fully evidenced that he 
asked for a refund from the airline and hotel provider and that the costs claimed for aren't 
recoverable from elsewhere. If I had thought the circumstances of the claim were covered 
(which for the above reasons I dont) he would have needed to provide that evidence.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ageas accepted my provisional decision. Mr T didnt accept, in summary he said:
he hadnt contacted the airline or hotel as with his original claim he provided 
evidence that both costs were non-refundable
the reasons theyd not travelled were the FCDO advice and that they would have had 
to quarantine on arrival at the country they were due to travel to. They would have 
incurred further costs for quarantine which wouldnt have been covered as the policy 
would have been invalidated if theyd travelled
he thought Ageas had acted unfairly and rejected the claim unreasonably.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand why Mr T and his sons didnt travel when it would have been against FCDO 
advice and they would have had to quarantine on arrival at the relevant country. As Mr T 
says, if theyd travelled any extra costs he incurred for quarantine were very unlikely to have 
been covered by the policy. 
But those circumstances dont mean Ageas had to pay the claim. As Ive explained in my 
provisional decision, cancellation of a trip because of FCDO advice against all but essential 
travel abroad isnt covered by the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr T says the other 
reason they cancelled the trip was because of the quarantine requirement on arrival in the 
relevant country so in addition I still think the policy exclusion for claims arising from 
prohibitive regulations by the government of any country would apply.
I note the airline and hotel costs were non-refundable, but for the reasons Ive given above 
I think Ageas fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman