DRN-2648553
Complaint
Mrs K complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (trading as Nissan Finance) unfairly 
entered into a hire-purchase agreement with her. 
Shes said that the monthly payments were unaffordable. Shes also unhappy a default was 
registered on her credit file.
Mrs K is being assisted in her complaint by her husband who Ill refer to as Mr K.
Background
In September 2018, Nissan provided Mrs K with finance for a car. The purchase price was 
£19,081.00. Mrs K paid a deposit of £4,400.00 and the rest of the purchase was funded with 
a hire-purchase loan, for £14,681.00, from Nissan. The loan had an annual percentage rate 
(APR) of 9.9%, had interest, fees and total charges of £4,081.57, and was due to be repaid 
in 47 instalments of £267.35, followed by 1 instalment of £267.87 and a final payment of 
£5,917.50. 
In October 2018, Mrs K attempted to purchase a second vehicle from Nissan. At this point 
Mr K got in contact with the dealership and supplied documentation regarding a medical 
condition Mrs K had. The dealership refused to discuss matters with Mr K, but passed on the 
information he supplied to Nissan. As a result of this information Mrs Ks application for the 
second agreement was declined but the first agreement, which Mrs K had already been 
provided with the finance for, remained in place.
After a few months of missed payments Nissan terminated Mrs Ks agreement and 
attempted to recover the vehicle, Mr K, on behalf of Mrs K, complained that the agreement 
was unaffordable and so should never have been provided to her. Mr K also said that he 
should have been able to end the agreement when he supplied medical information to the 
dealership in October 2018 and it was unfair for Nissan to have treated this agreement 
differently.
Nissan didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt know about Mrs Ks condition at the time it 
provided the finance in September 2018. In addition, its checks confirmed that the finance 
was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. Finally, it said it wasnt able to discuss 
matters with Mr K when he attempted to because the information he provided didnt make 
him an authorised party.
Mrs Ks complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that Nissan 
had done anything wrong or treated Mrs K unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mrs Ks 
complaint should be upheld. Mr K, on behalf of Mrs K disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ks complaint. 
Nissan needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Nissan needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was affordable for Mrs K before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mrs Ks complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Nissan says Mrs Ks application was auto accepted after credit searches were carried out on 
Mrs K which showed that she was up-to-date on all her existing credit commitments and had 
a strong credit score. On the other hand, Mrs K says the payments were unaffordable and 
there was no way she was able to maintain them.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr K, on behalf of Mrs K, and Nissan have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
Nissan carried out did go far enough. That said, even though I dont think that Nissan carried 
out proportionate checks, Im still required to look at whether it is more likely than not that a 
proportionate check would have told Nissan that Mrs K wouldve been unable to sustainably 
make the payments to this agreement. 
So Ive gone on to decide what I think Nissan is more likely than not to have seen had it 
obtained further information from Mrs K. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement 
and the amount of the monthly payment, I would have expected Nissan to have some kind of 
understanding about Mrs Ks regular living expenses as well as her income and existing 
credit commitments. 
The information Mr K has provided about Mrs Ks circumstances does appear to show that 
when her committed expenditure and existing credit commitments are deducted from the 
monthly income she would have been able evidence, she did have the funds, at the time at 
least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
Mr K says that Mrs K wasnt earning but she did have evidence of income and bearing in 
mind she wanted the vehicle, I think she would have provided this to Nissan if it had asked 
for it. Equally when Mrs Ks credit commitments are deducted from the income she would 
have been able to evidence she would still have had enough left over to make the payments 
to this agreement and running costs for this car. I also think she would have had enough left 
over to cover any other reasonable expenses going forward too. I say this while mindful of 
the fact that Nissan would also have seen that Mrs K had paid a reasonable deposit too.So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Nissan checks 
before entering into this hire-purchase agreement with Mrs K did go far enough, Im satisfied 
that carrying out such checks wont have stopped Nissan from providing these funds, or 
entering into this agreement.
I now turn to Mr Ks comments regarding Mrs Ks medical condition. It isnt in dispute that 
Nissan wasnt aware of Mrs Ks condition when she applied for the finance for this vehicle in 
September 2018. Mr K did get in contact when Mrs K made her second application and 
supplied medical documentation at this time. The dealership refused to discuss matters with 
Mr K but he wasnt a party to either agreement and it didnt have Mrs Ks consent to discuss 
matters with Mr K. Nonetheless it passed on the documentation to Nissan and it chose not to 
proceed with the second application.
Mr K says its unfair and illogical for Nissan to have only taken this course of action for the 
second agreement and refuse to discuss the second agreement with him. But Mr K is 
overlooking the fact that Nissan didnt discuss the second agreement with him either. All it 
did was consider the information provided and decided not to proceed with the application 
which hadnt as yet completed. It wasnt possible for Nissan to take the same action in 
relation to the first vehicle as this agreement was already in force and Mrs K was already in 
possession of the vehicle.
Ive seen what Mr K has said about the action some of Mrs Ks other creditors took at this 
time. But the information Mr K supplied didnt provide him with the authority to take over   
Mrs Ks financial affairs. Nissan also told Mr K what it needed to be provided with in order to 
discuss matters with him and this information hadnt been forthcoming. 
I think its also important to bear in mind other action Mr K says Mrs K had started around 
this time and Mrs K had been in contact with Nissan at this stage too. In these 
circumstances, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Nissan not to correspond with 
Mr K, or divulge any information, bearing in mind that it was required to presume Mrs K had 
the capacity to consent unless proven otherwise. Equally bearing in mind the respective 
status of the agreements, in October 2018, I dont think that it was unfairly or unreasonably 
differentiated between them.
Mr K is also unhappy that the first agreement went on to be terminated and that Nissan 
recorded a default on Mrs Ks credit file. Ive thought about what Mr K has said. But its 
important to note that Mrs Ks account was in arrears pretty much from the outset. Id expect 
a lender to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event of missed payments. 
But I wouldnt expect it to let matters run indefinitely as terminating an agreement also limits 
a borrowers liability as it allows the lender to take possession of the vehicle. And as 
potentially reduces any amount owing, Im not sure I necessarily agree with Mr Ks argument 
that a default was only in Nissans interests.
In this case, Nissan issued a default notice in January 2019. I know Mr K says he didnt see 
this. But Ive already explained why it would have been inappropriate for this to have been 
sent to him. And bearing in mind Mr K says he was living at a different address at the time 
and what he says Mrs K was doing with the post she received, I dont think that this means 
the notice wasnt issued. As Nissan didnt receive payment by the due date, it terminated the 
agreement. I appreciate that a payment was made in February 2019. And that Mrs K has 
since been able to reach a payment arrangement to keep the vehicle. But as this was all 
after the agreement had already been terminated, I dont think that this makes a difference 
here. 
  
Im sorry to see that Mr and Mrs K went on to have difficulty securing a mortgage. But the 
key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a business did something wrong. Given the circumstances, I dont think that that 
Nissan did anything wrong when it terminated Mrs Ks agreement and registered a default. 
So I dont think it should have to compensate Mrs K for this.
Overall and having carefully considered everything Mr K has said on Mrs Ks behalf, I dont 
think that Nissan acted unfairly when entering into this hire-purchase agreement with Mrs K, 
or when terminating it. As this is the case, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this 
will be very disappointing for Mrs (and Mr) K. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman