DRN-2542884
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled a claim 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss R held a building and contents insurance policy with RSA. In March 2020 after 
returning home from a trip abroad, she noticed a musty/damp smell and found water was 
coming through the ceiling lights in the bathroom, onto the bathroom floor. 
She contacted RSA who arranged for an electrician to attend her property to carry out a 
make safe under the home emergency part of her policy. RSA also arranged for a roofing 
contractor to attend the following day, also under the home emergency part of the policy. 
RSA used a number of contractors throughout this claim, but I will refer only to RSA 
throughout. Miss R is represented in her complaint, but I will refer to Miss R only throughout.
Miss R was content with the actions of and service provided by the electrician. But she 
wasnt happy with the roofing contractor, who told her he was unable to find the cause of the 
leak. Miss R considered that the inspection carried out by the roofing contractor was 
inadequate and she had a number of concerns about his actions and behaviour, including 
that he had asked to borrow a ladder rather than use his own equipment. 
Miss R complained to RSA about what happened. RSA offered to organise for another 
roofing contractor to attend the property. Miss R wanted the contractor to be from a different 
company as she didnt trust that the first company would do things properly. RSA tried to 
organise this, but the other company was based some distance from Miss Rs property and it 
said that the property was too far away. Miss R says she was concerned that RSA couldnt 
guarantee the same roofing contractor wouldnt turn up, so she arranged for her own 
contractor to attend, which he did a few days later.
RSA also arranged for a surveyor to attend Miss Rs property, to assess the cause of the 
leak and the internal damage caused. The original date given to Miss R was 24 March, 
however this was moved forward to 19 March and then again to 11 March. Miss R believes 
this happened due to pressure from her Building Society, that had sold the policy and she 
was seeking support from. RSA says that the appointment was moved forwards due to 
cancellations of earlier appointments.  
This surveyor attended Miss Rs property and carried out an inspection. He concluded that 
the damage to the roof was as a result of wear and tear and not a one-off storm  and so he 
said the cost of repairing the roof wasnt covered under the policy. However, he offered to 
settle the claim for the damage caused to the bathroom and said it was necessary for a 
specialist asbestos company to carry out tests at the property.
Miss R was unhappy with the decision about the roof. She didnt think the surveyor had 
carried out an adequate inspection because he used a pole camera rather than get up on 
the roof. Her contractor had told her the whole roof needed replacing at a cost of around 
£6,000 and that the damage had been caused by the storm conditions. 
Miss R was also unhappy about the amount offered to repair the internal damage. She didnt 
think it was anywhere near enough and she was also concerned that RSAs contractor didnt 
inspect other rooms in her property. She said there were signs of damp in other rooms and 
felt that the asbestos testing needed to include all the bedrooms. Miss R was asked to sign a 
form to say she accepted the surveyors conclusions, but she declined to do this due to her 
concerns.
Miss R complained about the surveyors actions and behaviour. RSA offered to arrange to 
send another surveyor to the property, but Miss R declined this, saying shed lost faith and 
trust in this company as well. She told RSA that she would arrange for her own contractors 
to assess the internal damage to her property.
RSA agreed for the asbestos testing to be carried out in all of the rooms Miss R was 
concerned about. The asbestos company attended Miss Rs property and found issues in a 
number of the rooms. They carried out temporary repairs to make things safe. 
Throughout this period, Miss R was very concerned by how her claim was being handled. 
She told RSA that shed had a terrible experience with a previous claim and that she was 
sure the same thing was going to happen.
She also explained to RSA that she suffers from complex post traumatic stress disorder 
(CPTSD) and that she was finding the whole experience very difficult to cope with. She 
emphasised the need for RSA to contact her at any agreed times. She also told RSA there 
was a particular trigger word that made her CPTSD much worse and asked them not to use 
it. She also said that she wanted all contact to be by telephone, not e-mail or letter.
RSA identified Miss R as a vulnerable consumer. It took steps to try to ensure that she had 
single points of contact at each of the companies involved and recorded that the trigger word 
shouldnt be used.
On 23 March, Miss R told RSA that she couldnt deal with the claim herself and that shed 
appointed a firm of solicitors to deal with things on her behalf. On 17 April, RSA issued the 
first of three final response letters. It said, in summary, that:
- It agreed the roofing contractor who attended under the home emergency part of the 
policy could have carried out a more thorough inspection and used his own 
equipment. 
- It didnt think the surveyor who attended to assess the damage had done anything 
wrong. It said the use of a pole camera was standard, that it wouldnt expect them to 
inspect every room in a property and that the customer has a responsibility to show 
where the areas of damage are.
- The evidence shows that the damage to the roof was due to wear and tear and not 
storm winds. However, it had agreed to pay up to the policy limit for home 
emergencies, towards the temporary repairs carried out by Miss Rs roofer, which it 
thought was fair and reasonable.
- It had agreed for the asbestos company to test all of the bedrooms, despite the 
evidence suggesting that the damage to the artex giving rise to concern wasnt 
caused by an ingress of water.- It agreed that its service could have been better at times. It hadnt called Miss R back 
a couple of times, having agreed to do so. And there was a misunderstanding where 
a team leader ended a call, having mistakenly thought that Miss R had finished with 
the conversation. 
- The asbestos company had confirmed it was safe for Miss R to remain in her home 
as they had adequately taped up the affected areas.
- It awarded a compensation payment of £300, incorporating the shortfall of £57.40 
on the home emergency part of the claim. 
- It acknowledged that Miss R had made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) and 
that this had been duly responded to.
Miss R wasnt satisfied with RSAs response. She cancelled her policy and raised a separate 
complaint saying shed been told that if she cancelled the policy, the refund would be 
backdated to 6 March 2020. When she cancelled the policy, the refund hadnt been 
backdated. RSA issued another final response letter dated 5 June 2020, upholding her 
complaint and confirming that the refund would be as Miss R said had previously been 
agreed.
Miss R raised further concerns about how the claim was being handled and the associated 
DSAR she had made. This included concerns that werent covered by the April final 
response letter, including:
- RSA potentially not meeting the full cost of repair, with the work due to be carried out 
by Miss Rs contractors.
- RSA not taking full account of the effect of the way the claim had been handled, on 
her physical and mental wellbeing.
- RSA making an error in the way it recorded the claims under the policy, leading to 
difficulties obtaining insurance with another provider.
- RSA not responding properly to the DSAR.
- The survey that happened on 11 March that was originally scheduled for 24 March, 
was only moved forwards due to pressure applied by the Building Society that sold 
the policy.
- A voice note made by the surveyor, which included inappropriate comments about 
Miss Rs behaviour/state of mind.
RSAs final response letter dated 26 June 2020 set out the following, in summary:
- It had agreed to pay the whole of Miss Rs roofing contractors bill for the emergency 
repairs to the roof, despite this meaning the £500 policy limit had been exceeded.
- In respect of its contractor who attended to inspect the roof, it continued to agree this 
hadnt been acceptable. 
- If in the course of the ongoing claim there were any differences in the scope and cost 
of the repair works, RSA would to its utmost to work with Miss Rs contractor to negotiate a fair and reasonable outcome for all parties. It reminded Miss R that where 
it agrees a cash settlement, it wouldnt normally exceed the amount it wouldve paid 
its own contractors to do the work.
- It offered to provide alternative accommodation for Miss R during the works.
- It maintained its position that it wasnt liable under the policy for the cost of the roof 
replacement. It said that Miss Rs contractor agreed with RSA that the main cause of 
the damage to the roof was not storm conditions. 
- It acknowledged the issue with the recording of the claim, apologised and confirmed 
that it had put things right.
- In respect of the DSAR, RSA had supplied all available information that it had as a 
company. But it did appear there were some gaps in the information provided by the 
third party companies involved in handling the claim. Upon receipt of the information 
from the other companies, RSA would send the information.
- It acknowledged the particular concern Miss R had in relation to a call with one 
particular member of staff, where the call was ended prematurely. It agreed the call 
couldve been handled better and apologised.
- It said the appointment date for the surveyor to attend was twice brought forwards 
due to cancellations and not any pressure applied by the Building Society that sold 
the policy.
- It agreed the surveyors comments were inappropriate and apologised for the hurt 
and distress caused. 
- It thought it had responded appropriately to the concerns raised by Miss R about the 
surveyor, shortly after the appointment. And re-iterated that it thought he had used an 
appropriate method of inspection.
- It had tried to make reasonable adjustments after Miss R had notified it of her 
condition and detailed what these were. It apologised for any pain and suffering 
caused by its handling and lack of understanding at points during the claim journey. 
- It increased its offer of compensation from £300 to £2,000.
Miss R remained unhappy and referred her concerns to this service. Miss R is also unhappy 
with how she has been treated by the Building Society that sold the policy. This is being 
looked at as a separate complaint under a separate complaint reference number. 
An investigator here looked into things and issued his findings in October. He said, in 
summary, that:
- RSA is carrying out a regulated financial activity when investigating and settling a 
claim. So he could look at whether RSA had done so fairly and reasonably.
- Complaint handling on its own is not a regulated financial activity, so he didnt have 
the power to look at any part of Miss Rs complaint about how RSA had handled her 
complaint, including how members of staff spoke to her and whether or not it involved 
a senior manager in looking into Miss Rs concerns.- RSA had accepted that the service provided by its roofing contractor was not good 
enough. Although he had been appointed in a reasonable amount of time, his failure 
to find the leak meant that another contractor (arranged by Miss R) needed to attend, 
which caused Miss R some worry and inconvenience. It also led to an avoidable five 
day delay in things being sorted out.
- He couldnt see that RSA had caused any other notable delays. Miss R didnt want 
RSAs contractors to carry out any of the restoration work. Her contractors estimates 
were submitted towards the end of August 2020, following a period of time where 
Miss R needed to self-isolate.  
- The evidence suggests that it was reasonable for RSA to decline to pay for the roof 
to be replaced, because the damage was due to wear and tear and not storm 
conditions.
- Although he understood why Miss R may have felt that she needed assistance with 
the claim, he didnt think that RSA had done anything wrong that required her to seek 
legal assistance.
- The £2,000 offer of compensation falls into the category of where something has 
gone seriously wrong and had a significant impact on the consumer. Taking 
everything into account about the way the claim had been handled, he thought that 
represented a fair amount of compensation.
Miss R didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the matter to be escalated to 
an ombudsman. She made further representations about what had happened, how it had 
impacted her and why she thought RSA needed to do more. 
Miss R questioned the distinction between how RSA had handled the claim and how theyd 
dealt with her complaint  saying that she felt they were essentially all part of the same thing. 
She added that RSA had taken a long time to actually make any of the payments under the 
policy. 
Miss R also highlighted another issue where RSAs agent had agreed to not contact Miss 
Rs contractors before first agreeing this with Miss R or her representative. She found out 
that RSAs agent did make direct contact the next day. Miss R emphasised that among the 
many things she was concerned about it was this, alongside the various issues relating to 
RSAs roofing contractor and surveyor, that had had the biggest negative impact on her 
health and wellbeing. 
On the subject of the amount of compensation, she said she understood that the amount 
should take account of the impact on the particular consumer. She emphasised how her 
condition meant that the impact on her from what had happened had been particularly 
severe. 
RSA had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive concluded that RSA doesnt need to do anything further to resolve the 
complaint. I recognise that this will come as a disappointment to Miss R and that she feels 
very strongly that RSA needs to do more. But I hope that my explanation helps her to 
understand why Ive reached the conclusion that I have.
My decision is focused on what I consider to be the most salient points. If I dont mention 
something raised by one of the parties, it doesnt mean I havent taken it into account.
Its clear to me that Miss R has gone through a very difficult experience, one that has 
negatively affected her health and wellbeing. Ive needed to consider how much of this was 
caused by RSAs handling of the claim, versus other things, such as the innate stress and 
worry that comes with needing to make such a claim and Miss Rs concerns about how 
things were going to turn out. 
But first Ill first address Miss Rs concerns about the investigators conclusion that RSAs 
complaint handling wasnt something he could take into account. I take a slightly different 
view to the investigator. He was correct when he said that complaint handling isnt, on its 
own, a regulated activity. However, in this type of situation where a consumer is complaining 
about how a claim is being progressed, the lines between claim handling and complaint 
handling can become somewhat blurred.
With that said, lots of the concerns Miss R has raised have been specifically about how her 
complaint about the claim  and not the claim itself - was being handled. And when thinking 
about compensation, Ive only taken into account Miss Rs concerns about the way her 
complaint was handled, where it relates to the substance of the claim itself.
To determine this complaint, the main things Ive needed to think about are whether:
- RSA has fairly dealt with the claim, in terms of what is and isnt covered under the 
policy.
- The amount of compensation is fair, taking into account everything thats happened 
and the impact this had on Miss R.
- RSA needs to pay the cost of Miss Rs legal representation.
Has RSA fairly dealt with the claim, in terms of what is and isnt covered under the policy?
Miss Rs home insurance policy included cover for certain things and not for others, which is 
standard. I can see that RSA has made payments under the home emergency part of the 
policy, in excess of the policy limit. I think this means it has treated Miss R fairly. 
The main issue in terms of what is and isnt covered relates to the cost of the roof repair. 
Miss R says that her roofer told her the damage to the roof was caused by storm conditions 
and that repair wouldnt be economical  it would be necessary to replace the roof.
RSA says that its surveyor considered that the substantive damage to the roof (the battens 
and felt) was as a result of wear and tear and not storm conditions, and so the cost of 
replacing the roof isnt covered under the policy. It also says that Miss Rs roofer agreed with 
its analysis of the situation. 
I can see that the policy includes cover for storm damage. But that it doesnt cover damage 
caused by wear and tear or a lack of maintenance, or loss or damage that has happened 
gradually over time.Its not disputed that storm conditions were recorded close to Miss Rs property, shortly 
before she discovered the damage. 
Miss Rs roofer did write that the damage to the roof was caused by storm, however there is 
no explanation as to why he thinks this is the case. He recommended the roof be replaced 
because of the defective battens and the amount of holes in the existing felt. 
RSAs surveyor also noticed issues with the battens and the felt. He thought the 
deterioration to the felt was consistent with a natural breakdown of materials and noted signs 
of previous repair. 
Aside from the fact that RSA says Miss Rs roofer agrees with its findings, I must also take 
into account that RSAs surveyor provided some reasons for his conclusion, whereas Miss 
Rs roofer did not. I find RSAs surveyors conclusions more persuasive. 
I appreciate that Miss R didnt think that the surveyors inspection of the roof was adequate  
in terms of using a pole camera rather than getting up onto the roof. RSA disagreed with 
this. Having reviewed the surveyors report and findings, Im satisfied that the inspection he 
carried out enabled him to assess the extent of the damage and the likely cause. 
In conclusion, I think its fair for RSA to have declined to cover the costs of the roof 
replacement. 
The other main issue here is the extent to which RSA has agreed to cover the costs of the 
internal repairs. Miss R didnt agree to the surveyors initial conclusions, because she 
thought the cost of repair would be much higher. RSA says that the initial offer of settlement 
was based on damage that it was aware of following the surveyors inspection. And that it 
would re-assess its liability if further damage was discovered. 
Under the policy, RSA only needed to cover the costs of repairing damage caused by 
something covered under the policy i.e. the ingress of water. The claims file suggests that 
RSA has agreed to pay for the majority if not all of the damage thats been identified. 
Including some damage that its not clear was caused by the ingress of water discovered by 
Miss R. It also seems to have agreed to cover costs that are higher than wouldve applied 
had Miss R agreed for the repair works to be carried out by RSAs contractors. Miss R 
recently said that RSA had agreed to pay around £9,000 towards the internal repairs. 
While I can understand why Miss R chose not to accept the original settlement of around 
£1,000, it wasnt unreasonable for RSA to offer a settlement based on what it thought it 
would cost to repair the damage it was aware of, that it believed was caused by the ingress 
of water. 
And it appears that RSA has covered the costs it ought to have under the policy, if not more. 
However, if in the future Miss R believes that RSA hasnt met any costs it ought to have 
under the policy (other than those specifically covered in this decision), she is entitled to 
raise this with RSA.
Is the compensation offered by RSA fair, taking into account everything thats happened and 
the impact this had on Miss R?
As mentioned earlier in the decision, its clear to me that Miss R has gone through a very 
difficult experience, one that has had a significant negative impact on her health and 
wellbeing.Ive thought about the extent to which this has been caused by RSAs handling of the claim, 
versus other things, such as the innate stress and worry that comes with needing to make 
such a claim and Miss Rs concerns about how things were going to turn out. 
Its clear to me from having listened to recordings of the calls that took place between Miss R 
and RSA when she discovered the leak and in the days after, that she was convinced from a 
very early stage she was going to encounter similar issues to those she experienced with a 
claim she had made in the past. I dont have the full picture of what happened in that 
previous claim, but from what Miss R has said, a number of things went wrong and she 
received quite a large amount of compensation as a result. 
Miss R first mentioned this before anything of substance had gone wrong with RSA and it 
clearly influenced her thoughts and actions in the early stages of the claim.
With that said, I can see (and RSA has conceded) that some things did go wrong in terms of 
RSAs handling of the claim. In particular, there were issues with RSAs roofing contractors 
professionalism and his failure to find the cause of the leak. Also with the surveyors 
professionalism and comments that he made about Miss R. And the incorrect recording of 
two claims, when there had only been one. 
From the calls Ive listened to and the correspondence Ive seen relating to the claim itself, 
RSAs staff have generally been polite and tried to move things forward for Miss R. I think 
that after Miss R told it about the trigger word that she didnt want it to use, RSA took 
reasonable steps to accommodate the request. The fact that Miss R asked for 
communications to be via telephone only, would objectively have made it difficult for RSA to 
achieve this all of the time.
Taking everything into account, I think the £2,000 that RSA offered Miss R, represents fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors. I can assure Miss R 
that, in reaching this decision, Ive taken into account everything that she told me about 
whats happened.
Miss R has made the point that compensation for distress and inconvenience should reflect 
the impact on the particular consumer. She is correct. Had a similar complaint been brought 
by another consumer who wasnt affected by the things that affect Miss R, I would be 
thinking about a figure of compensation significantly less than that offered by RSA to Miss R. 
I think that RSAs offer reflects the particular impact the issues it is responsible for have had 
on Miss R.
Does RSA need to pay for the cost of Miss Rs legal representation?
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to pay Miss Rs legal representation 
costs. Such costs arent covered under the policy. And while I appreciate that Miss R felt that 
she had no choice but to seek such assistance, I dont think this was as a result of RSAs 
handling of the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer of £2,000 is fair. I dont 
require RSA to pay any additional compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman