DRN-1563977
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the way AmTrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) handled their 
claim under their furniture protection plan.
Mr and Mrs F are joint policy holders, but for ease I shall refer only to Mr F. Amtrust is the 
underwriter of the five year protection plan and responsible for claims. Any reference to 
Amtrust includes its agents.
What happened
Mr F made a claim under his furniture protection plan for multiple stains and a hole in the 
fabric of his sofa. The sofa was two years old. Amtrust said it would only clean the most 
recent stain which was in line with the terms and conditions of the plan. The claim for the 
stains was closed because Mr F didnt want one clean area, leaving the rest of the furniture 
looking stained.
Amtrust sent someone to investigate the hole in the fabric and accepted Mr Fs claim. 
However, it didnt think the fabric could be repaired and gave Mr F two options  for Amtrust 
to replace the damaged cushion, or settle the claim with a £30 cash payment. Mr F chose 
the first option  to have the damaged cushion replaced. Amtrust ordered the replacement 
cushion.
Two months later, Amtrust wrote to Mr F with an estimated delivery date for the replacement 
cushion. The cushion wasnt delivered. Four months after the delivery date had passed, 
Amtrust reviewed the claim and noted that the cushion hadnt been delivered. It contacted 
the manufacturer and was told the cushion was no longer available. Amtrust tried and failed 
to speak with Mr F over the next three weeks.
Amtrust then wrote to Mr F offering him an increased cash settlement of £150 to live with the 
damage or for the matter to be passed to its technical team. Amtrust also offered £50 in 
recognition of the delays in handling his claim. 
Mr F complained to Amtrust because he didnt think it had done enough to get the 
replacement cushion from the manufacturer and he didnt think the cash offer was sufficient.
Our investigator thought Amtrust hadnt done anything wrong and didnt uphold the 
complaint. This is because:
the terms and conditions of the plan provide for Amtrust to repair, replace or offer a 
cash settlement limited to the cost of the replacement;
the replacement wasnt available so a cash settlement offer was reasonable.
 He also thought that the £50 offered in recognition of the delay was sufficient because, while 
the delays were unnecessary and avoidable, with claims of this nature its common to have 
to wait while replacement parts are sourced.
Our investigator looked at whether the stains shouldve been covered under the plan. The 
terms and conditions state that claims should be made within 28 days of the event or as 
soon as possible after. Therefore, our investigator thought it was reasonable that Amtrust 
offered to clean only the most recent stain.
Mr F disagreed. He felt that Amtrust must have ordered the replacement cushion because it 
gave him an expected delivery date. Therefore he didnt accept that the cushion wasnt 
available when he first made the claim and he thought something mustve happened in the 
four month delay. Our investigator explained that the delivery date wasnt confirmed and 
wasnt a guarantee that the cushion was available. Mr F remained dissatisfied with the 
outcome.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will disappoint Mr F, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint and Ill explain 
why.
Mr F took out the protection plan when he bought two sofas. He had an expectation that if 
the sofas were accidentally damaged his plan would cover the cost of repair, replacement up 
to the purchase value (subject to the policy limit) or a cash settlement. This is what the plan 
provided for.
Mr F told Amtrust that there was a tear or puncture in the fabric of one sofa. Ive looked at 
what Amtrust shouldve done, what it did, and considered whether that was fair. I wouldve 
expected Amtrust to inspect the damage and give Mr F options consistent with his policy. I 
would also have expected this to be done within an appropriate timescale.
I think Amtrust handled the claim appropriately in the first stages. It asked for documented 
details; sent an agent to investigate the damage; identified the likely cause, and confirmed 
that it couldnt be repaired. Amtrust said it would order a replacement part from the 
manufacturer, which Mr F was satisfied with. 
From this point, the claim didnt progress as might reasonably be expected. Mr F received a 
letter giving an expected delivery date. Amtrust made it clear in the letter that the date was 
not confirmed and may change. Four months after the delivery date passed, Amtrust told Mr 
F the part wasnt available. During those four months, Mr F understood the matter was being 
resolved so I can understand his frustration to find that the cushion wasnt available. 
However, I dont agree with his view that the cushion was available and then something went 
wrong. I have seen both the order and acknowledgement of receipt from the manufacturer in 
Amtrusts log notes, so I am satisfied that it placed the order. Amtrust sent its letter to Mr F 
advising of an estimated delivery date a few days after it received the acknowledgement of 
receipt from the manufacturer. The letter made it clear that the date may change, so Im 
satisfied that it sent the letter in good faith that the manufacturer would be able to fulfil the 
order. Amtrust didnt follow up on the order until four months later, at which point it found out the 
cushion was no longer available. I have no reason to think Amtrusts delay caused this. On 
balance, I think its likely that the cushion was already unavailable and may be the reason 
Amtrust didnt hear any more from the manufacturer. So I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Amtrust responsible for the lack of availability. However, it is responsible for not following up 
on the matter sooner and for this I think compensation is warranted. Im satisfied that its offer 
of £50 is fair because the delay hasnt caused Mr F any loss or affected the validity of his 
claim.
In respect of the actual fabric tear, Amtrust offered Mr F £150 to live with the damage 
because it couldnt replace the cushion, or to refer the matter to its technical department for 
a resolution. If Mr F accepts £150 his policy would still be available to him for any future 
claims but his sofa would still be torn. However, if he prefers to accept Amtrusts offer to 
refer the matter to its technical team, it will explore other options. I am satisfied that this is 
what might be expected under the terms of the policy and I dont think Amtrust has acted 
unfairly in making this offer.
I have also considered Amtrusts response to Mr Fs claim for stain damage He reported to 
Amtrust that his sofa was stained in multiple places, although not from a single event. 
Amtrust only agreed to clean the last of the stains in line with the 28 day cut off from 
when the event occurred. If the first stain was caused by a single event, Id have expected 
that to be reported at the time. The plan is there to cover one off events quickly, giving 
Amtrust the best chance of achieving a successful stain removal service, rather than to 
provide a cleaning service once there are a number of stains. I dont think Amtrust acted 
unfairly in agreeing to clean only the most recent stain. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman