DRN-3503106
The complaint
Mr L complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
(DB) British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
Pensionhelp Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Pensionhelp.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr L was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of 
his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Pensionhelp which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as 
follows:
Mr L was 49 years old and married. He had accrued several years worth of service 
with BSPS.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ls BSPS was approximately 
£153,880. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr L earned around £40,000 per year. He lived in a home he and Mrs L owned with a 
modest mortgage. They had around £10,000 in savings.
Mr L was contributing to a new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. This 
pension isnt the subject of any complaint.
Pensionhelp set out its advice in a suitability report. In this Pensionhelp advised Mr L to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. 
Pensionhelp said this would allow Mr L to achieve his objectives. Mr L accepted this advice 
and so transferred out in early 2018. In 2021 Mr L complained to Pensionhelp about its 
advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension but 
Pensionhelp didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr L then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, 
Pensionhelp said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives 
Mr L had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be informally resolved, it came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pensionhelp didnt initially agree it had done anything wrong. However, in the interest of 
bringing complaints like this to a close, Pensionhelp has recently said it would be willing to 
accept the investigators view and run a calculation to see if the pension transfer had 
incurred any loss for Mr L. 
Pensionhelp has used a BSPS-specific calculator established by the regulator for this 
purpose. Ive noted it took Mr Ls transferred pensions value as of summer 2023 and 
inputted this into the calculator together with all his personal details. The calculation showed 
there has been no financial loss incurred as a result of Mr L transferring away, back in 2018.
However, Mr L still doesnt think its fair that the redress should be calculated in the way it 
has. As I understand it, hes not saying that Pensionhelp hasnt followed the FCAs guidance 
 he just thinks the guidance itself is unfair. And so, when Pensionhelp said in October 2023 
that it wanted to recalculate again using the most up to date pension balance in Mr Ls fund, 
he hasnt provided this. Nor was he willing to sign a consent form authorising Pensionhelp to 
obtain the precise up to date figures. 
For the avoidance of any doubt here, Ive still looked at Mr Ls case and his points of 
complaint in great detail. Having done this, I agree with the points made by our Investigator 
who comprehensively set out why he thought the complaint ought to be upheld. Im also 
sorry that its taken so long for Mr Ls complaint to reach this stage  I understand the 
distress and inconvenience caused by him having to bring the complaint at all.
However, because Pensionhelp has recently informed us that it is willing to accept the 
Investigators view that the advice wasnt right for Mr L, and that a calculation has been 
carried out as required by the regulator, Im not going to go into the level of detail I normally 
would about why the complaint should be upheld. I can also see that we have explained to 
Mr L, the complexities about his former DB pensions value. We have also explained its 
relationship with both market forces in general, and specifically, with bond yields. So, these 
things help explain why no overall financial loss has been incurred in this situation. Weve 
also checked that the inputs that were put into the BSPS-calculator are correct.
So, in summary, I dont think the advice given to Mr L was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. And I dont think there were 
any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So I think 
Pensionhelp ought to have advised him against transferring away from the BSPS. 
As I dont think I need to consider this in any further detail, Ill focus in this decision on the redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Pensionhelps unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Pensionhelp 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Pensionhelp must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
I appreciate that Mr L says the delay in his complaint reaching the stage of an ombudsmans 
final decision has contributed to the redress calculation being much different than he 
expected. However, our aim is to put consumers like him back into a position as if the 
unsuitable advice had never occurred in the first place. DB pensions have a relationship with 
bond yields and these have seen substantial changes recently. However, the calculator 
establish by the regulator takes account of this and assumes Mr L can get back into the 
position of having a pension with broadly the same benefits. And in his case, he wont be 
any worse off.
Pensionhelp should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr L and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation. But Mr L needs to authorise and assist Pensionhelp in 
achieving the correct calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of my final decision.
Pensionhelp has been clear up until now that the redress calculation has not demonstrated a 
loss. But if the new redress calculation does demonstrate a loss, as explained in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in DISP App 4, Pensionhelp should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts Pensionhelps offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
If any redress is paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum, it will need to be treated as income for tax 
purposes. So, in line with DISP App 4, Pensionhelp may make a notional deduction to cash 
lump sum payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income 
from their pension. 
Our Investigator recommended that Pensionhelp should pay Mr L for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr L in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr L. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress 
and inconvenience. Pensionhelp should pay this in addition to the redress Ive set out above.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct 
Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000. However, in this case, this limit is unlikely to be relevant.
Pensionhelp should additionally pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
unsuitable advice. If Mr L accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on 
Pensionhelp Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman