DRN-4395916
The complaint
Ms B and Mr B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrote to them saying theyd missed 
mortgage payments and reported this to the credit reference agencies. They also complain 
that it didnt respond to their subject access request. Mr B has dealt with the complaint.
What happened
Ms B and Mr B took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2008. A condition of the mortgage was 
that they opened a mortgage current account (which Ill refer to as the MCA). The MCA 
allowed Ms B and Mr B to borrow in the form of an overdraft secured on the property. Ms B 
and Mr B have separated. Mr B remains in the security property.
In late 2022 the overdraft limit for the MCA was exceeded. Barclays sent a letter to Mr B 
saying there was an overdue amount owing on his mortgage. The letter went on to say this 
was for the MCA and set out the amount overdue. 
Mr B made a complaint, saying hed maintained his mortgage payments. Barclays agreed 
the letter was unclear as it also referred to the mortgage account. It paid £50 compensation. 
However, it continued to send letters as the MCA remained in excess of the overdraft limit 
until mid-2023.  
Mr B said he didnt know Barclays had imposed an overdraft limit and as he and Ms B didnt 
receive monthly statements for the MCA, they didnt know the limit was exceeded. 
Our investigator said Barclays sent statements that were correctly addressed, and the way 
the MCA was managed suggested Mr B and Ms B were aware of the overdraft balance and 
limit. Our investigator said Barclays wasnt responsible for payments into the MCA stopping 
in late 2022, and it was fair to report this to the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator said Barclays offer of £50 for any confusion caused by its letters was fair. 
He said while the letters mentioned the mortgage account (which is linked to the MCA) it was 
clear that the MCA was overdrawn. 
Our investigator said Barclays should pay a further £100 compensation for not responding to 
Mr Bs subject access request in good time. Barclays agreed. Mr B didnt agree, saying:
Hed been denied the opportunity to provide further evidence to us as Barclays didnt 
respond to his SAR.
Barclays didnt notify him before recording that the MCA was in arrears on his credit files.
Barclays still wasnt sending statements to Ms B.
Barclays closed their complaint without his consent. 
Barclays recently sent a letter cancelling the MCA overdraft facility, despite it having a 
zero balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ms B and Mr B have a mortgage with Barclays. The terms of the mortgage require them to 
make monthly payments. Barclays notifies them of the amount they need to pay each month.
Ms B and Mr B also have a MCA. This is a current account with an overdraft facility secured 
on the property. While Ms B and Mr B arent required to make a monthly payment of a 
specified amount, they do need to keep the borrowing within the overdraft limit.
The MCA balance, overdraft limit and statements
Mr B says they didnt receive statements for the MCA and werent told there was an 
overdraft limit. Barclays provided copies of monthly statements for the MCA and letters 
about the MCA addressed to Mr B and Ms B at what was their joint address and is now 
Mr Bs address. 
The monthly statements set out the overdraft limit and the MCA balance. The statements 
show payments (of differing amounts) into the account that match or almost match the 
interest being applied. These payments were made each month for several years until late 
2022. This meant the overdraft balance stayed just below the limit. 
Barclays sent letters from 2018 to Ms B and Mr B saying they were close to the overdraft 
limit. These letters also set out the overdraft limit and other information about the MCA. 
Barclays says the overdraft limit didnt change from mid-2021.
The annual mortgage statement (dated October 2022) refers to the MCA and the amount 
owed. 
Taking all this into account, I think Barclays made Mr B and Ms B aware of the MCA, their 
balance, the interest being applied and the overdraft limit. I dont see how they could 
otherwise have arranged payments each month to match the interest being applied. Ms B 
and Mr B either received the monthly statements or were able to access this information 
another way.
The payments into the MCA stopped in late 2022. When interest was applied the overdraft 
balance exceeded the overdraft limit. Its not clear why the payments stopped. But I havent 
seen anything to persuade me this was due to an error by Barclays. 
Barclays sent a statement of overdue amount on your mortgage in December 2022. There 
was a separate heading for the MCA, under which it set out the overdraft limit, the amount 
owed and the overdue amount. I think the information about the MCA was correct. 
The letter also included information about the mortgage account and Barclays accepts this 
was unclear. The mortgage was in credit, which was indicated by a minus sign before the 
credit amount. Barclays said this could cause confusion and paid £50 for the upset caused. I 
think this was fair. 
However, no payments were made into the MCA to bring the overdraft within the limit. I think Barclays provided enough information to Ms B and Mr B about the MCA for them to arrange 
this. This is supported by them being able to keep the MCA overdraft just within the limit for 
several years. But even if  as Mr B says  they didnt receive MCA statements the letters 
about the overdue payment set out the overdraft limit, the overdraft balance and the overdue 
amount. This provided the information necessary to arrange a payment to bring the overdraft 
within the overdraft limit. 
Credit report
Mr B didnt provide a copy of his credit report. He sent the text of an email from one of the 
credit reference agencies to Barclays. This said hed missed a payment on his flexible 
mortgage. Most likely the MCA is categorised for credit file purposes as a flexible mortgage, 
as this is the category most similar to how it operates. While Mr B says information was 
recorded without warning, I dont think thats right. The letter sent in December 2022 (which 
prompted Mr Bs complaint) says information will be recorded on the credit file when there 
are arrears due to missed payments or the overdraft limit is exceeded by £50 or more.
Lenders are required to report correct and up to date information to the credit reference 
agencies. The MCA was over its overdraft limit and payments werent made to correct this 
for several months. I dont think it was wrong for Barclays to record this on Mr B and Ms Bs 
credit files.
The SAR
Mr B also raised a complaint with ICO about Barclays failure to respond to his SAR, which 
ICO upheld. Barclays responded to the SAR in August 2023. Mr B has had opportunity to 
provide any further evidence to us following the response. 
I agree that Barclays took too long to respond to the SAR and that it should fairly pay 
compensation for this. I think £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, for the 
inconvenience this caused to Mr B. 
Other matters
Mr B was upset that Barclays closed his complaint. Complaint handling isnt itself a regulated 
activity. This means we cant necessarily look into the way in which a respondent deals with 
complaints. If a customer isnt happy with the response to their complaint, they are able to 
bring it to us  as Mr B and Ms B have done. 
Our rules say that we can only look into complaints after the respondent (here Barclays) has 
had an opportunity to look into the matter and respond. Mr B has been in regular 
correspondence with Barclays while the complaint has been with us, which hes shared with 
us. I think in large part this was to keep us up to date. 
However, there are some matters  such as that Barclays isnt sending copy MCA 
statements to Ms B at her new address or that it wrote to Ms B cancelling the MCA overdraft 
 where its not clear to me if Mr B and Ms B are making a new complaint. If so, I need to 
explain that I cant fairly look into these matters here. Mr B and Ms B would need to raise 
these matters with Barclays. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £100 to 
Mr B. This is in addition to the £50 it has already paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman