DRN-2212378
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined his claim under his 
wind energy property damage insurance policy, avoided his policy (that is, treated it as if it 
never existed), retained his insurance premiums and put a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
In 2015 Mr G made a claim for storm damage to one of the wind turbines hed insured under 
his commercial property damage insurance policy with RSA. RSA accepted Mr Gs claim. 
The details and costs of the new equipment Mr G was to buy to replace the damaged 
equipment were set out in an invoice from a third party that RSA was sent. RSA paid Mr Gs 
insurance settlement based, among other things, on this invoice.
Instead of buying new equipment with the settlement, Mr G repaired his existing equipment. 
He didnt tell RSA hed done this, either at the time or when he renewed his policy in 2015 
and 2016.
In 2017 Mr G made another claim for storm damage to the same wind turbine. The same 
loss adjuster who assessed the damage in 2015 assessed the new damage. He thought the 
wind turbine was the same as in 2015. Initially Mr G denied this, saying hed bought old new 
stock to replace the damaged equipment. But subsequently he said that  for various 
reasons  hed repaired the old equipment, rather than replaced it.
RSA said its underwriters wouldnt have agreed to renew Mr Gs policy in 2015 and 2016 if it 
had known hed repaired rather than replaced the turbine equipment. It said it was voiding 
Mr Gs policy from the 2015 renewal date (in other words, treating the policy as if it hadnt 
existed from that date). It also said it wasnt refunding his premiums and that it might share 
information about the matter with fraud prevention agencies.
Mr G wants to clear his name of fraud. So, when RSA didnt uphold his complaint about how 
it had dealt with his policy, he came to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Gs complaint 
didnt uphold it. She thought taking account of the relevant law, the policy terms and all the 
circumstances, RSA's decision to treat Mr Gs policy as if it never existed from his 2015 
renewal was fair. And she also didnt think it was unfair of RSA to refer to the fraud condition 
in Mr Gs policy.
Mr G disagrees. He says he didnt set out to cause any fraudulent actions and did his best to 
deal with things in 2015. So Mr Gs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
The law that applied to Mr Gs policy when he renewed it in December 2015 (The Marine 
Insurance Act 1906) says both he and RSA had a duty of the utmost good faith. This meant 
Mr G was under a duty to disclose to RSA all material information he knew or ought to have 
known would influence its decision about whether to accept the risk of insuring the turbines 
or what premium to charge. If Mr G failed to do this, under the law, there would be what was 
called a non-disclosure. And this would mean RSA could treat his policy as if it never 
existed from the renewal date.
The position under the law at the time was mirrored in Mr Gs insurance policy. It said, at the 
very beginning of the policy document and in bold, capital letters that any facts the company 
had taken into account in the assessment or acceptance of the insurance, and any 
subsequent changes to these facts, needed to be declared. It goes on to say failure to so 
might invalidate the policy or result in certain covers not operating fully. Finally it said if there 
were any doubts as to whether a fact was material or not, the insurance adviser needed to 
be contacted without undue delay:
And the policy also had a general condition saying: This policy shall be avoidable in the 
event of misrepresentation misdescription or non-disclosure in any material particular.
The underwriters at RSA say it doesnt give insurance cover for refurbished wind turbines. 
They say this approach has been in place for a number of years and still is. They say that, 
because Mr G had repaired and reinstated the turbine equipment, RSA would consider it to 
be refurbished. They say had it been informed of this material fact, it wouldnt have given 
Mr G cover.
Mr G says hes been involved in small wind energy for over 35 years but his claim in 2015 
was his first insurance claim and he didnt know how things worked. Hes explained the 
various difficulties he had getting new equipment in 2015. He says the loss adjuster at the 
time told him he was sure Mr G would do his best  which is what Mr G thinks he did. And 
Mr G has admitted that, in a panic when asked by the loss adjuster in 2017 if the equipment 
was the same as hed claimed for in 2015, he initially denied it  though quickly corrected 
himself.
I think its important to say Mr Gs duty to disclose all material facts doesnt mean he had to 
tell RSA everything in minute detail. But he did have to disclose enough information to call 
RSAs attention to the relevant facts and matters in such a way that, if it wanted more 
information, it couldve asked for it so as to decide if it wanted to continue to offer him cover.
RSA settled Mr Gs 2015 claim on the basis that Mr G would buy new equipment (as set out 
in the invoice Ive already mentioned), not repair old. When, for all the reasons hes given, 
Mr G decided to use the settlement to repair not replace the turbine equipment, he ought 
reasonably to have known this was something material he should tell RSA about. And if he 
didnt tell RSA at around the time the settlement was made and the repairs done, he 
certainly had a duty to do so when he renewed his policy later that year. 
In his explanations of what happened, Mr G has focussed on events in 2017, which is when 
RSA became aware of all the material facts. But its in 2015, when Mr G renewed his policy 
without disclosing a change in those material facts, that I think he failed in his duty of the 
utmost good faith. RSA has shown us that, if it had known about these changes, it wouldnt 
have offered Mr G cover. So, taking into account the law, Mr Gs policy terms and all the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in treating      
Mr Gs policy as if it never existed from the 2015 renewal date. And this means RSA doesnt 
have to deal with his claim for the damage to the turbine in 2017. I know Mr G is especially concerned about the fraud marker thats been placed against his 
name. Where an insurer thinks its customer has made a deliberate misrepresentation, this 
is what usually happens. It isnt something thats set out in the law but it is standard industry 
practice in these situations. 
Mr G has given us very detailed reasons about why he used the settlement to repair rather 
than replace the equipment. But the basis on which RSA made its settlement  that Mr G 
would buy new equipment  is very clear. And I think it shouldve been equally clear to Mr G 
that, if he didnt do what his insurer thought he would, he had a duty to say so. But he chose 
not to. And I cant think this was anything other than a deliberate decision on his part at the 
time  even though I know its one Mr G now deeply regrets. So I think RSAs decision to put 
a fraud marker against Mr Gs name and retain his policy premiums for 2015 and 2016, is 
fair and reasonable. 
Its likely Mr Gs name is currently on an insurers database whose purpose is to identify 
misrepresentation and prevent fraud. Claims stay on for six years from the date the claim is 
closed. I think this is the length of time Mr G can expect the marker to stay against his name.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman