DRN-2359666
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) handled three deposits 
in 2016. 
What happened
Mr M is concerned about three deposits, each of £5,000, in to his account on 6 June, 1 July 
and 9 August 2016. He contacted Halifax about them in October 2019 as he believed theyd 
been made fraudulently. Mr M has explained he believes the funds were from his late 
mothers estate and didnt clear, so hes not had the benefit of them. Hes asked Halifax for 
information that will help him with certain legal proceedings hes involved in. 
Halifax looked in to the deposits and explained it doesnt know who made them, but all three 
were made in the same branch and as they were cash deposits Mr Ms account was credited 
immediately.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ms complaint said he couldnt see that Halifax had 
done anything wrong, or that Mr M had suffered any detriment. He accepted that given the 
passage of time since the deposits Halifax had limited evidence. The evidence that was 
available indicated that Halifax followed the correct processes at the time in terms of 
accepting a deposit on the basis of the sort-code and account number only, The deposits 
were also of a similar value to transfers made in April the same year, which Mr M didnt 
dispute, and had the same reference as one of them. Having reviewed an electronic record 
and bank statements sent to Mr Ms home address at regular intervals the investigator was 
satisfied the deposits were made and not reversed. Finally, he said the bank had no 
concerns at the time and so no reason to undertake any checks.  
Mr M didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans final decision, 
so his complaint has been passed to me to consider. He said Halifax is unable to say how 
his account was credited with funds. He also questioned how cash could be credited without 
him being alerted or Halifax staff asking questions about the nature of the deposit. Mr M also 
asked for clarification of Halifaxs process when a cash deposit is made and for information 
about whether the service tills were balanced on the relevant days and whether the cashier 
was the same on each occasion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the same reasons as the investigator, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Im satisfied from the evidence available that three cash deposits of £5,000 each were made 
on 6 June, 1 July and 9 August 2016. All of the deposits were made at the same branch. The 
electronic record and Mr Ms bank statements, issued to his home address every few 
months, show cleared deposits that increased his balance, so Im also satisfied Mr M had 
the benefit of these funds.
Halifax has explained paying in slips werent required and all that it needed to deposit funds 
in to Mr Ms account at the time was the sort-code and account number, which I accept. The 
reference on one deposit was the same as when deposits Mr M doesnt question were made 
in April 2016, suggesting the deposit was made by the same person. On the other two 
occasions the reference was similar but not identical. Given the processes in place at the 
time and Mr Ms previous account history Im satisfied Halifax had no reason to question the 
deposits and consider it acted reasonably in not taking any further steps. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ms account was credited on each occasion and the payments werent 
reversed, I see no benefit in looking in to whether tills were balanced on the day of each 
deposit. In response to Mr Ms query, the electronic records indicate each deposit was 
processed by a different member of staff. 
Overall, I dont believe Halifax has acted unreasonably in processing the deposits and I cant 
see Mr M has suffered a loss. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman