DRN-4000744
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs Z have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. In March 2022, Mr and Mrs Z booked a family trip through a travel agent. The 
trip was with other families and had a departure date in December 2022. In         
November 2022, Mr and Mrs Z discovered that their travel agent had ceased trading and 
that it hadnt booked their flights. The travel agent subsequently entered into voluntary 
liquidation. 
Mr Z contacted Aviva about a claim against the policy. Ill refer to the phone 
conversations between Mr Z and Aviva in more detail below. On 25 November 2022,    
Mr and Mrs Z booked alternative flights.
I understand that Mr and Mrs Z recovered from ATOL the cost of their original flights.   
Mr and Mrs Z want to recover from Aviva the increased cost of the alternative flights. 
Aviva declined Mr and Mrs Zs claim. It said that Mr and Mrs Z hadnt cancelled or 
curtailed their trip, so what happened here doesnt come within the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr and Mrs Z werent content with Avivas response and pursued their complaint. Aviva 
maintained its decision about Mr and Mrs Zs claim but offered compensation of £50 in 
relation to its failure to mention during Mr and Mrs Zs first call that it wouldnt be able to 
consider a claim for the increase in flight costs. Mr and Mrs Z pursued their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Z say that they booked alternative flights immediately after speaking with  
Aviva and receiving what they believed to be confirmation to do so in order to secure the 
best possible price to ensure that they could go on their trip. They say that if theyd 
known at the outset that the additional cost of alternative flights wasnt covered by the 
policy, there would have been a cancellation claim, which would have cost Aviva more. 
They also say that they had made group bookings with other families which were 
impossible to unwind. Mr and Mrs Z say that Aviva settled a claim made by their friends 
and travelling companions.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Aviva had 
acted unfairly. The investigator said that the policy covers losses when policyholders 
have to cancel or curtail a trip due to their travel or accommodation provider becoming 
insolvent, but Mr and Mrs Z didnt cancel or curtail their trip. She said that the policy 
doesnt cover the increased costs of the flights. 
The investigator said that she could only consider whether Aviva had acted fairly in 
relation to Mr and Mrs Zs claim. She said that Aviva acknowledged that it should have 
told Mr and Mrs Z that their claim wouldnt be covered during their first phone call. The 
investigator thought Avivas offer of compensation of £50 was fair in relation to that.
Mr and Mrs Z didnt agree with the investigator. They said that Aviva settled the claim of 
their friends and travelling companions. Mr and Mrs Z say that Aviva has treated them 
unfairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs Z have very strong feelings about this 
matter. Through no fault of their own, they faced the worry and increased costs of having to 
rearrange parts of their planned trip. Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a worrying time 
into a short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. 
Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that Mr and Mrs Z wont 
take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is 
whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of their claim. 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
B. Cancelling or coming home early
What well cover
Well pay the costs shown below if the insured person unavoidably has to cancel their trip or 
come home early if one of these events happens
[]
vi. The insured persons travel or accommodation provider becomes insolvent. []
Well pay the following:
Unrecoverable costs that each insured person has paid or legally has to pay for their 
own unused personal travel and accommodation, as well as unused pre-paid costs 
associated with the trip [] and/or
Additional travel and accommodation costs to allow the insured person to return 
home early if they cannot use their return ticket.
[]
Well only pay for costs where the insured person does not have a right to recover them from 
their travel and/or accommodation provider or agent, their debit/credit card company, 
PayPal, ABTA, ATOL (or similar organisations) or an insolvency administrator.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding               
Mr and Mrs Zs complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. The circumstances which led to Mr and Mrs Zs claim occurred before they left 
home to start their trip, so the only relevant cover in the policy is provided in the 
cancellation provisions, an extract of which Ive set out above.  
Subject to the policy terms, theres cover in certain circumstances that lead to 
cancelling or curtailing a trip. The cover is for unrecoverable costs of unused travel 
and accommodation and unused pre-paid associated costs. But Mr and Mrs Z 
didnt cancel or curtail their trip. Theres no cover for the increased costs of flights 
in the circumstances that arose here. Ive gone on to consider whether its fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to rely on the policy terms in this case.
Mr and Mrs Z say that if they had cancelled their trip, Aviva would have been 
obliged to pay them cancellation costs, which would have been more than the 
increased costs of flights they seek. Thats not in fact the case because the policy 
only covers costs where the insured person unavoidably has to cancel their 
trip. Its not the case here that Mr and Mrs Z had no option but to cancel their trip 
 they could book alternative flights, which is what they did. So, if Mr and Mrs Z 
had cancelled their trip, Aviva would not have been obliged to pay cancellation 
costs. 
Ive listened to the recordings of the relevant phone calls between Mr Z and Aviva. 
Aviva didnt tell Mr Z they it would cover the additional costs of alternative flights. It 
consistently told Mr Z that it would look at their claim after they had pursued a claim 
with ATOL. I dont think that Aviva treated Mr and Mrs Z unfairly in relation to the 
information it gave to Mr Z during the phone calls. It was reasonable for Aviva to 
establish what Mr and Mrs Z recovered from elsewhere before considering the 
claim. Thats consistent with the policy terms which cover certain unrecoverable 
costs.  
I can understand why Mr and Mrs Z booked alternative flights  they wanted to 
preserve their trip. Mr and Mrs Z have explained that they had paid for various 
excursions in full and that cancellation by them would have been detrimental to the 
other families on the trip. But I dont think that Mr and Mrs Z have shown that they 
relied on an incorrect assurance from Aviva before they booked alternative flights. 
Mr and Mrs Z say that Aviva has settled a similar claim from their friends and travel 
companions. I can understand Mr and Mrs Zs frustration about that, but I cant 
comment on any similarities to or differences from their friends claim or Avivas 
handling of it. Im looking at whether Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs Z fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances that arose in their claim. For the reasons Ive 
explained, I think it has. Ive seen nothing to indicate that Aviva acted in an 
arbitrary way in declining Mr and Mrs Zs claim. 
Aviva says that it should have told Mr and Mrs Z sooner that there was no cover for 
additional costs of alternative flights. Based on what Ive seen, Mr Z first contacted 
Aviva about this matter on 23 November 2022 and Aviva told Mr Z its decision 
about the claim on 8 December 2022. It would have been helpful if Aviva had told 
Mr and Mrs Z earlier that the policy doesnt cover the increase cost of flights, but I 
dont think that theres significant delay here. Aviva has offered Mr and Mrs Z 
compensation of  £50 in relation to service issues. There are no grounds on which I 
can fairly direct Aviva to pay more. If Mr and Mrs Z wish to accept Avivas offer, 
they should contact it direct. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs Z but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman