DRN-3052136
The complaint
 Mrs K complains that FCE Bank Plc refused to cover the cost of replacing an engine in a 
faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FCE is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The new car was acquired in November 2017 and in February 2021, after covering some 
27,000 miles, it required a new engine. Clearly something has gone wrong since a brand 
new engine should last much longer than 27,000 miles. There are two possibilities, one that 
it had an inherent fault or two it was mistreated in some way which caused the catastrophic 
failure.
The first is quite possible given the particular engine has had a history of problems. The 
initial report by the AA stated that there was an ignition fault on cylinder 1. The main dealer 
reported that the oil level was low as it was leaking into the engine and had caused it to 
burn. It gave an estimate of £7,000 to replace the engine and the manufacturer offered to 
make a contribution of £2,390 as goodwill gesture. Mrs K has confirmed that at no time did 
the oil light on the dash come on. 
I have noted that Mrs K asked FCE if it could let her know what the cause of the fault was, 
but it referred her to the dealer. It, in turn has not provided a clear explanation of the cause, 
other than as set out above. I also note there is a discrepancy between the AA findings and 
the main dealer. 
When the car was recovered by the AA it was taken to a local garage and it has said:
With past experience of this engine in other models we were quite aware of the issues 
these engines have. The oil level was low and compression test on No 1 cylinder was low, 
the sparkplug in No 1 cylinder was oily.
If the engine didnt have an inherent fault then it is reasonable to conclude that the fault 
arose due its use or lack of care. However, there is no evidence to support this suggestion. 
Mrs K had the car serviced in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations and the 
oil was replaced. It passed the MOT test in October 2020, and I do recognise this does not 
subject the engine to a full examination. However, it would have identified if the oil light was 
on. 
So it seems the car was properly maintained and there is nothing to suggest that Mrs K was 
responsible in any way for the fault. This brings me back to the most likely cause which was 
an inherent fault which as the independent garage has noted is not unusual for this engine. 
I have noted FCEs argument that the car is outside the three year warranty and given the 
time which has elapsed it is Mrs Ks responsibility to demonstrate the car was faulty at the 
point of sale. This is not a straightforward task, but I believe the circumstantial evidence is 
sufficient to allow me to conclude that this complaint should be upheld.
Mrs K had the engine replaced at an independent garage which was approved by the 
manufacturer at a cost of £2,418. Given this is less than the manufacturer was prepared to 
pay I think it only right that Mrs K be reimbursed in full for this cost. 
Putting things right
 FCE should cover the cost of the replacement engine.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FCE Bank Plc
pay Mrs K £2,418.20 for the cost of replacing the engine.
pay Mrs K £100 for the cost towing the car between garages
pay 8% simple interest* on these two sums from the date the money was expended 
until it is refunded.
pay Mrs K £300 for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires FCE to deduct tax from this interest. FCE should give 
Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman