DRN-3156141
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a chargeback dispute.
What happened
Mr H says he asked Barclays to raise a chargeback for a faulty item he bought. He says he 
received his money back and the chargeback was resolved in his favour. Mr H says he then 
received a letter from the merchant threatening him with legal action unless he returned the 
money. He says he asked Barclays for assistance and for the transcripts of his case to 
understand why the complaint was resolved in his favour. Mr H says he didnt receive them 
and didnt receive any help. He says he had no choice but to repay the merchant and would 
like Barclays to repay the money which is just over £1,143.
Barclays says Mr H raised a chargeback and was successful. It accepts that when Mr H 
called it in May 2021 that it ought to have been clearer and has offered £50 compensation 
but says Mr H made the decision to repay the merchant.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
listened to the calls between Mr H and Barclays and thought Mr H made clear he would 
decide what to do with the issue of repaying the merchant. The investigator also thought the 
compensation offer appropriate for the confusion on the call about which ombudsman was 
dealing with the complaint.
Mr H doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened to the key call between Mr H and Barclays. Im satisfied that Mr H made clear 
that he was concerned about the threat of legal proceedings and told Barclays to return the 
payment to the merchant. Im also satisfied that Barclays made clear to Mr H that his 
chargeback was successful, and it couldnt be reversed. And Mr H again made clear that his 
intention in those circumstances was to repay the merchant to avoid court proceedings. Im 
satisfied that Barclays told Mr H that it was up to him to decide what he did.
So, I dont think Barclays misled Mr H about the key issue here and that Mr H made his 
position very clear, that he wanted to return the money. I find that was his choice as Barclays 
correctly told him, and it isnt Barclays role to provide him with legal advice. I dont think it 
would have made any difference here if Barclays had provided Mr H with the reasons why 
his chargeback was successful. And I have made clear that I think Mr H told Barclays on 
numerous occasions it was the threat of legal proceedings that influenced his decision to 
return the money to the merchant.
I accept there was some confusion on the call between the parties. And that Barclays ought 
to have clarified which ombudsman Mr H was referring to as I think he told Barclays which 
ombudsman he was directing his complaint to. But I think the compensation offer for that 
part of the complaint fair and reasonable and that misunderstanding had no impact on the 
main part of this complaint.
Overall, I find Barclays successfully carried out a chargeback and that it was Mr Hs decision 
to repay the merchant when he received the threat of court proceedings. I dont think 
Barclays could have done any more to assist Mr H and that he was clear in deciding that he 
wanted to repay the merchant which was the purpose of the call to Barclays. For those 
reasons I cant fairly order Barclays repay the money as Mr H would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman