DRN-3871869
Complaint
Mrs A has complained about a loan Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to her. She says that 
Lendable provided her with an unaffordable loan.
Background
Lendable provided Mrs A with a loan for £8,500.00 in March 2021. It had an APR of 13.68% 
and a 30-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £9,966.70, which 
included interest, fees and other charges of £1,466.70, was to due be repaid in 29 
instalments of around £330 and a final payment of around £310. One of our adjudicators 
reviewed what Mrs A and Lendable told us. And he thought that Lendable hadnt lent 
irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. Mrs A disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs As complaint.
Lendable needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs A 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable says it agreed to Mrs As application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Mrs A. The information Mrs A provided about her income and expenditure 
showed shed be able to make the repayments she was committing to. Lendable says, in 
these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mrs A has said the loan 
was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs A and Lendable have said. The first thing for me to say 
is that this was Mrs As first loan with Lendable. The information provided does suggest        
Mrs A was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and Lendable didnt just 
rely on what it was told. The credit search carried out showed that Mrs A had had previous 
difficulties with credit. But this was historic and at the time Mrs As outstanding debt and 
what she did have appeared to be reasonably managed.
However, bearing in mind the repayment amount and what the credit search showed, I do 
think that Lendable ought to have found out a bit more about Mrs As committed expenditure. 
But having looking at the information Mrs A has provided I dont think that there is anything 
in it that would have led to Lendable declining Mrs As application. Indeed, on the face of 
things, whats been provided appears to show the loan was affordable and theres nothing in 
it which calls the information Lendable gathered into question. Mrs A says that the balance in 
her bank account at the time was inflated by the proceeds of a secured loan. But even 
allowing for these payments, Mrs A still appears to have sufficient funds left over to make the 
payments to this loan.  
I accept that Mrs As full circumstances may not be reflected in the information Lendable 
gathered or in the information she has since provided. But bearing in mind what shows in 
this information, I cant reasonably say that further checks would have prevented Lendable 
from providing this loan. Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Lendable did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mrs A  although it ought to 
have gathered a bit more information, I dont think this information would have made a 
difference given its lack of previous history with Mrs A. So overall I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lendable to provide this loan to Mrs A.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs A. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mrs As complaint, I would remind Lendable of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should Mrs A be experiencing difficulty and it 
choose to collect payments from her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman