DRN-1666342
The complaint
Mr K complains Virgin Money plc increased his credit limit without his consent.
What happened
Mr K has a credit card account with Virgin Money. He received a letter from Virgin Money 
saying his credit limit would be increased. Mr K didn't want this to happen, so he called 
Virgin Money and told them this. Despite a note being put on Mr K's account, his credit limit 
was increased approximately one month later, and Mr K found out about it after receiving a 
letter from Virgin Money confirming his new credit limit.
Mr K complained to Virgin Money about this. Virgin Money reduced Mr K's credit limit, to the 
previous amount, two days after the increase took place. And around eight weeks after Mr K 
complained, they issued their final response. In this they apologised for their mistake and 
confirmed his credit limit had been put back to its previous level, and confirmed they'd 
updated credit reference agencies of their mistake so that Mr K's credit report could be 
amended. They also paid £50 to Mr K's credit card account to acknowledge the 
inconvenience he'd experienced.
Mr K remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He told us Virgin 
Money's mistake had caused a great deal of worry because he had been looking for a 
mortgage when it happened. He also was unhappy the £50 award wasn't paid to an account 
of his choosing.
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr K's complaint. He felt the £50 offer was fair in the 
circumstances. He also didn't feel Virgin Money had acted unfairly by paying the award to Mr 
K's credit card.
Mr K disagreed with our investigator, and felt Virgin Money needed to do more to put things 
right. However, Mr K didn't say what he wanted to put things right - rather he felt Virgin 
Money should offer a higher award for him to consider.
Our investigator wasn't persuaded to change his findings. So, Mr K asked for his complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr K's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
The terms and conditions for Mr K's credit card say Virgin Money won't increase a 
customer's credit limit if they don't consent to that happening. In this case, it's not disputed 
that Mr K told Virgin Money he didn't want his credit limit increased, at the earliest 
opportunity. So, Virgin Money did do something wrong when they acted against Mr K's wishes. So, it's only right they do something to put things right. And I've had to decide 
whether Virgin Money did enough when they realised they'd made a mistake.
I've seen screenshots from Virgin Money's system that show Mr K's credit limit was reduced 
to its original level, two days after it was increased. They've also confirmed they've updated 
credit reference agencies of their mistake, and credited Mr K's credit card account with £50 
in acknowledgement of the worry and inconvenience he inevitably experienced.
Mr K doesn't think this award goes far enough to put things right. At the time his credit limit 
was increased, he was looking for a mortgage. And he's said he's concerned the search on 
his credit file and the increased limit on his credit report may have affected his ability to get a 
mortgage.
Virgin Money took two days to rectify the credit limit increase. And while the mistake should 
never have happened, I can't ignore the fact Virgin Money amended the credit limit quickly. 
And I consider that was the right thing to do in the circumstances. 
Looking for a mortgage can be a stressful time - even without the circumstances Mr K found 
himself in. So, I completely understand why Mr K would have been concerned when he 
realised his credit limit had been increased against his wishes. However, I've not seen any 
evidence that shows Virgin Money's mistake had an impact on any mortgage applications Mr 
K made. Our service can only make awards for circumstances that actually happened - not 
hypothetical ones. And in this case, I've not seen enough to persuade me Mr K's ability to 
get a mortgage was affected by his credit limit increase.
Mr K is also unhappy that it took Virgin Money eight weeks to resolve his complaint. Given 
what he's told us about his circumstances, I can see why he would have wanted things 
resolved sooner. However, financial business' are expected to handle complaints in line with 
the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority. And these rules say business' have eight 
weeks to look into a complaint and provide their final response. The information I've seen 
shows that Virgin Money looked into Mr K's concerns and provided their final response 
within this timeframe. And seeing as I'm not persuaded any mortgage applications were 
affected by Virgin Money's mistake, I can't agree that they took too long to give Mr K an 
answer.
Raising a complaint comes with inevitable inconvenience and worry. And our service 
wouldn't award compensation for this inconvenience alone. So, for me, what I consider 
Virgin Money should compensate Mr K for is the time he had the higher credit limit he 
specifically said he didn't want. And as mentioned above the increased limit was only in 
place for two days. So, I consider the £50 Virgin Money offered to be appropriate in these 
circumstances.
Mr K isn't happy Virgin Money paid this amount to his credit card account. He's said he 
would be charged if he tried to withdraw this amount from his credit card. Mr K is also 
concerned about the impact credit card interest would have on this amount. 
I can see why Mr K would have preferred the £50 paid to an account of his choosing. But, I 
don't consider the award being paid to his credit card as being inherently unfair. Mr K still 
had access to his credit card. And since the £50 was credited to his account, I understand 
he's been able to spend more than this amount on his card. So, I consider he's still been 
able to benefit from the funds.
Having taken everything into account, I'm satisfied Virgin Money has done enough to put 
things right for the mistake they made with Mr K's credit limit. And it's for this reason, I won't 
be asking them to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr K's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman