DRN-2797556
The complaint
Mr G, who is represented by a third party, says Santander UK Plc, trading at the 
time as Alliance & Leicester, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy with a loan.
Mr G took out the loan in August 2009. At the same time he was sold a regular premium 
PPI policy which would have covered his loan repayments if he became unable to work 
or lost his job. It also provided life cover.
For consistency, Ill refer to Santander throughout this decision.
What happened
 Santander told us it has already offered to pay back some money to Mr G for the 
commission it received from selling the PPI to Mr G. But Mr G still thinks the PPI was 
mis-sold in the first place.
One of our adjudicators looked at this case and said the complaint about the actual mis-
sale should also be upheld. Santander didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to 
me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint about the mis-sale
because overall, I dont think he was given clear enough information about the cost of the 
policy.
Santander says Mr G applied for both the loan and PPI over the internet. It couldnt send 
us his original application form but it sent us some examples of the type of forms which it 
says were in use at the time. I understand from Santander that the on-line process gave 
consumers two options about having PPI with a loan  one choosing to buy PPI, the other 
choosing not to. Santander says that Mr G would have had to make a decision as to what 
he wanted to do in order to progress onto the next stage of the application.
This therefore wasnt an advised sale because Mr G would have made his way through 
the application process without any help or guidance from Santander. However, 
Santander still had a duty to provide Mr G with clear enough information about the PPI 
policy so he could make an informed decision about whether or not he wanted to go 
ahead and buy it.
I dont think Santander did this because at the time he made his choice about the PPI, 
we know Mr G wouldnt have had access to the cost of the PPI. Weve seen a number 
of very similar cases to this, and Santander has also said in this particular case that 
the cost of the PPI couldnt be provided at the point where Mr G chose to buy the 
cover. It told us the cost was only calculated once the loan had been approved and the 
interest rate decided.
Santander said that at the point of making his choice, Mr G would have been able 
to access an online calculator from the on-line platform he was in at the time. It 
says consumers who used this facility were given an estimate at this point in the 
process, of what the loan repayment with and without PPI would have been.
However, I dont think Mr G would have had to use this calculator as it wasnt a
mandatory part of the process. From what hes told us about not being clear on the cost of 
the PPI when he took it, Ive no way of knowing if he knew it was there. And even if he had 
used it, it would have only given Mr G a rough idea of the PPIs actual cost which isn't 
enough for him to make an informed choice about.
Santander has also said that Mr G would have been sent a welcome pack which 
included a letter giving more details of the PPI, including more precise information on 
the cost. It hasnt sent us a copy of the actual letter it sent to Mr G, but again, its 
provided an example of what it says it wouldve looked like.
But even if Mr G did receive and read a letter like this, he wouldnt have seen it until 
after the sale and hed already made the decision to take out the PPI. I note the 
example letter also wasnt particularly clear about how to cancel the policy if hed 
changed his mind once hed seen the true cost.
So I think Santander failed in its duty to be clear. If Mr G had been given clear
enough information about the cost of the policy, I dont think hed have taken it out. I say 
this because the cost of the PPI was around £81 per month which seems high for the 
amount of loan repayment cover he had and so I dont think he would have seen this  
policy as being good value for money. I therefore don't think he'd have wanted the policy.
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Gs mis-sale complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr G in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr G the amount he paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year ;
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. Santander can also deduct the 
money it has already paid Mr G for the commission it received.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint about the mis-sale and I direct 
Santander UK plc to pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman