DRN-3633033
The complaint
Ms G complains that AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited turned down a cancellation 
claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Ms G booked a live-aboard diving trip through an agent. She was due to 
travel in March 2020. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the trip provider 
postponed the trip  first until March 2021 and then, until March 2022.
In May 2021, Ms G took out a single trip travel insurance policy to provide cover for the 
diving trip between 18 March and 12 April 2022. 
But in July 2021, the agent let Ms G know that the trip provider had had to file for bankruptcy 
and so the trip had to be cancelled. It said no refund of Ms Gs trip costs were payable, as it 
relied on a force majeure clause in the booking terms and conditions. So Ms G made a 
cancellation claim on her travel insurance policy.
AXA turned down Ms Gs claim. It said that the policy specifically excluded claims which 
happened because of the bankruptcy of a company or organisation. So it concluded that Ms 
Gs claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Ms G was unhappy with AXAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
circumstances of Ms Gs claim were covered by the cancellation section of the policy. And 
he noted that the reason Ms Gs trip had been cancelled was because the trip provider had 
filed for bankruptcy. So he thought itd been reasonable for AXA to rely on the bankruptcy 
exclusion to turn down Ms Gs claim.
Ms G disagreed. She said there had been multiple reasons for the cancellation of the trip  
including Covid-19 and civil unrest. She felt it was very unfair that she wouldnt get any 
monies back and she questioned what the point of insurance was if it didnt pay out.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms G, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
circumstances of Ms Gs claim and the terms of her contract with AXA, to decide whether 
AXA treated her fairly.
I appreciate that the cancellation of Ms Gs trip was entirely outside of her control. However, 
no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, AXAs 
obligations under its contract with Ms G are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions 
which are set out in the policy. And AXAs stated, within the In a nutshell section of the 
policy:
Never assume you'll be covered because you think that's what travel insurance is for. 
Please take the time to read your policy carefully to know what's covered, what's not 
covered, the limits to cover and the exclusions.
Its common ground that Ms G cancelled her holiday. So I think it was appropriate for AXA to 
consider her claim in line with the Cancellation, Curtailment & Trip Resumption section of 
the policy. This says that AXA will provide cover for one of the following, specified events:
1. The sudden death, serious illness or accidental injury of
a. you; or
b. your close relative
2.  The sudden death, serious illness or accidental injury of someone from your 
travelling party.
3. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), the World Health Organisation 
(WHO) or similar body in the circumstances issuing a travel warning advising against 
all travel or all but essential travel to a specific region or country and that warning 
was first given after you booked the trip
4. Your home or place of business becoming uninhabitable (within 14 days of your start 
date of travel).
5. You being called to attend court as a witness (but not as an expert witness) or for jury 
service
6. Your or a member of your travelling partys unexpected, involuntary redundancy 
occurring before your start date of travel.
7. The police asking to see you after a theft from your home which occurred within 14
days of your start date of travel.
8. Before you depart from the United Kingdom, the carrier you were booked to travel on 
from the United Kingdom was cancelled or delayed for more than 24 hours.
9. Before you depart from the United Kingdom, you are denied boarding your booked 
flight from the United Kingdom because it was overbooked and no other flight could 
be provided within 24 hours.
In my view, AXA has clearly set out the listed, specific events its chosen to cover in the 
event a policyholder has to cancel their trip. Ive looked carefully at Ms Gs cancellation claim 
form. I can see that the trip was cancelled on 25 July 2021. She provided AXA with 
information about the reasons why her trip had to be cancelled. I can see that Ms G 
explained that the trip had had to be postponed in 2020 and again in March 2021, due to 
Covid-19, with the intention that it would take place in March 2022. Ms G stated:
Now I have been informed that the boat companywe were due to be on board with has 
filed for bankruptcy and will be closing the company due to extraordinary financial loss, and 
as a result, no trip can go ahead in 2022. This means that unfortunately it will not be possible 
now to go on this trip.
I accept that Ms Gs initial holiday plans were affected by Covid-19 and the trip had to be 
postponed twice as a result of the pandemic. But the evidence she provided to AXA 
suggests the main reason for the holiday cancellation was the tour operators filing for 
bankruptcy, which meant the trip couldnt go ahead. So I think it was fair for AXA to conclude 
that it was the tour operators filing for bankruptcy which was the main cause of the holiday cancellation.
The bankruptcy of a tour operator or provider simply isnt covered by the cancellation section 
of the policy and doesnt fall within the listed, specified events AXA has chosen to cover. So I 
dont think it was unfair for AXA to conclude that Ms Gs claim wasnt covered by the 
cancellation section of the contract.
And AXA has also set out a list of specific events which it has chosen to exclude from cover, 
and which apply to all sections of the policy. One of these say that AXA wont cover any loss, 
claim or expenses that directly or indirectly relate to or arise from the following
The bankruptcy, liquidation, insolvency or other financial failure of any person, company or 
organisation  including circumstances where a reasonable person, at time of booking or at 
time of purchase of this insurance, could expect the person, company or organisation would 
not be able to deliver their products or services.
As Ive set out above, I think it was fair for AXA to decide that the bankruptcy of the tour 
operator was the main reason for the cancellation of Ms Gs holiday. And so I think it was 
reasonable for AXA to conclude that the circumstances which gave rise to the claim were 
specifically excluded from policy cover. Id add too that in my experience, this exclusion isnt 
unusual in travel insurance policies.
So overall, despite my natural sympathy with Ms Gs position, as I appreciate shes been left 
out of pocket, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down her claim. And I dont find there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could direct AXA to pay it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman