DRN-2883173
The complaint
Mr M complains that after paying the settlement amount on his hire purchase agreement 
with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) he was told he still had an 
outstanding balance.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr M asked for a three month payment holiday. This was actioned and 
covered April, May and June. In January 2021, he was contacted by MBFS to say that his 
direct debit payments for July 2020 to January 20121 hadnt been taken. Mr M says he tried 
to discuss this with MBFS, but it only wanted to use email and so in February 2021 he 
requested a settlement quote. A quote was provided which Mr M accepted and paid. Mr M 
says this created a legal contract and the agreement had been settled. 
On 8 February 2021, MBFS contacted Mr M saying there was still an outstanding balance of 
over £3,500. Mr M said he had settled the agreement and so the matter was closed and he 
raised a complaint. 
MBFS issued a final response letter in February 2021. It explained that the issue had arisen 
due to Mr Ms account being suspended while it was reviewing payment deferral options and 
while this was corrected the changes to the account hadnt taken affect before the settlement 
quote was generated. It apologised for the issue but said it wouldnt be able to honour the 
settlement quote. It provided options for Mr M to clear the settlement shortfall and offered to 
pay him £150 as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience he had been caused. 
Mr M didnt think MBFS had done enough to resolve his complaint and referred it to this 
service. He said he wanted the systemic failure by MBFS regarding the payments and 
settlement quote to be referred to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for investigation. He 
said by accepting his settlement payment MBFS had entered a legal contract and that £150 
wasnt enough compensation given the worry stress and anger MBFS had caused him. He 
also questioned whether this issue would have an adverse impact on his credit file.
Our investigator explained that we wouldnt report this issue to the FCA but that Mr M could 
do so if he wished. She said that MBFS had made an oversight by not including the missed 
payments in the settlement quote. She thought as the amounts were owing under the 
contract it was reasonable that Mr M would be required to pay these and noted that MBFS 
had offered different payment options. Our investigator noted that the issue had caused 
Mr M inconvenience and disappointment and thought it fair that MBFS had upheld Mr Ms 
complaint and offered him £150 compensation. She said that MBFS had confirmed no 
adverse information had been recorded on Mr Ms credit file due to this issue.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said MBFS had breached a contractual 
obligation but because he had ended up paying the correct amount our investigator had 
found this fair. He said this didnt take into account the distress he was caused by the issues.
Mr M reiterated that he was provided with the wrong settlement figure, direct debits were 
missed, and he wasnt allowed to speak to management. He said he wanted it explained as 
to why a major system failure or breach of contract wasnt of concern to this service and that 
£150 wasnt enough given the hours he had spent emailing and phoning about the issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to punish the business but where a mistake has been made to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been had the mistake not been made and, 
where appropriate, award compensation.
Mr M entered a hire purchase agreement (personal contact plan) (PCP) in 2018 to acquire a 
car. The agreement was for 36 months with monthly repayments of just over £400. He has 
explained that he asked for a three month payment holiday in March 2020 and this was 
provided. However, following this Mr Ms direct debits werent taken for several months. 
While I accept that MBFS made a mistake, Mr M was aware of the need to make payments 
under the agreement and I think it reasonable that he would have noticed these werent 
being taken. 
When Mr M was told of the issue with his payments he says he wasnt able to discuss the 
issue and in frustration asked for a settlement amount. While I have already said that Mr M 
was responsible for the payments and should have been reasonably aware these werent 
being taken, I can also see why he was upset by the issue and the amount that was now due 
to be paid and that he felt he couldnt discuss this issue. 
Mr M was provided with a settlement quote which he paid. I appreciate Mr Ms comments 
about this being the end of the matter and that the settlement amount should be honoured. 
However, as our investigator has explained we are not a court of law and it isnt our role to 
decide whether a contract is enforceable. Instead my decision is based on what I consider 
fair and reasonable. I take relevant law and guidance into account by my conclusions are 
based on the unique circumstances of the complaint and what I believe to be a fair outcome.
In this case, I agree that Mr M hasnt received the service he should have. He thought the 
settlement quote provided was the end of the matter but then discovered there was an 
amount still to pay. While I can understand how upsetting this must have been, as the 
amount was owing under the agreement Mr M originally signed, I do not find that I can say it 
is unreasonable that MBFS contacted Mr M about this.
It is clear that MBFS has made mistakes and it has accepted this and apologised. But as 
Mr M would have been required to pay the additional amount had the mistakes not been 
made, I dont think it is unfair that MBFS has said this amount is still owing. As the amount 
owing is over £3,500 I think it reasonable that MBFS offered Mr M different payment options 
to clear the outstanding balance.
While I do not find I can say MBFS has acted unfairly by requesting the outstanding balance, 
I do think it reasonable that it pays Mr M compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by the issues raised. Mr M has explained that he has spent time dealing with the 
issues and wasnt able to speak through the issue when it first came to light. MBFS offered 
to pay Mr M £150 as a gesture of goodwill for the upset and inconvenience caused. I know 
that Mr M does think this is enough but having considered the issues raised, that the 
payment shortfall was noted shortly after the settlement amount was paid and an 
explanation of the issue was given, and Mr Ms complaint was upheld, I think this amount is 
fair in this case.My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay Mr M the 
£150 it has offered (if this hasnt already happened) in recognition of the upset and 
inconvenience he has been caused by the issues with his payments and settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman