DRN-3759114
The complaint
R and R complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited didnt properly repair its 
vehicle after it made a claim on its commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Reference to Markerstudy includes its agents
What happened
R and R holds a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Markerstudy. Following an 
incident in which the vehicle was hit from behind, R and R made a claim for the damage 
caused. Markerstudy accepted the claim and arranged for the vehicle to be repaired.
When the vehicle was returned R and R noticed further problems with it. It took it to the 
manufacturer, and they pointed out that extensive work was needed to the front of the 
vehicle. Markerstudy said this damage wasnt caused by the incident R and R were claiming 
for and said it wasnt covering the damage as part of this claim.
Unhappy R and R complained. It said it had lost business as a result of the vehicle being in 
for repair, it had incurred storage charges while in too. And it said the vehicle was unsafe to 
drive and never should have been returned in the condition it was. Markerstudy didnt 
change its stance. So, R and R brought its complaint to us. Our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
R and R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
R and Rs policy with Markerstudy covers it for damage to its vehicle caused 
accidentally or as a result of malicious damage. It excludes damage caused by 
Wear and tear, mechanical or electrical breakdown
R and R reported the incident as its vehicle being hit from behind. Markerstudy 
repaired the damage to the rear of the vehicle. I understand R and R thinks 
Markerstudy should have checked more thoroughly for damage. But its role is to 
repair the damage related to the incident.
When the vehicle was returned to R and R it noticed a knocking noise and an issue 
with the suspension. It took the vehicle to the dealer who noted extensive damage to 
the front of the vehicle.
But on the balance of evidence provided, Im not persuaded this damage is caused 
either accidentally or maliciously. I appreciate R and R has said the vehicle may have 
hit a curb or been damaged by the collision, but theres no expert evidence to support 
this. The evidence from the manufacturer only notes what the damage is, not what 
caused it. And Im satisfied Markerstudy is acting reasonably by relying on its in-
house engineer who determined the damage to the front of the vehicle is not related 
to the incident or the repair. Based on the evidence, Im not persuaded the damage 
was caused either accidentally or maliciously in this specific incident and so, it isnt 
covered by the policy. Therefore, I find it reasonable Markerstudy dont pay for this 
damage.
It follows that I dont find Markerstudy responsible for any storage costs, or time 
without the vehicle in relation to the damage to the front of it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R and R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman