DRN-3174660
The complaint
Mr R complains that Remitly U.K Ltd have not returned his money after an international 
payment did not reach the intended recipient.
What happened
Mr R sent a payment internationally through Remitly on 16 April 2021. He says that as he 
received a message from Remitly that the funds had been transferred to the recipients bank, 
he asked the intended recipient if they received the money he had sent them, but the 
intended recipient confirmed to Mr R they hadnt received the money.
Mr R contacted Remitly and explained what had happened. He says that Remitly told him 
they would rectify the transaction within 48-72 hours. As Mr Rs intended recipient kept 
chasing him for the money and Remitly werent able to pay his money back to him, Mr R 
made a complaint to them.
Mr R said that as he hadnt been asked for an Indian Financial System Code (IFSC) from 
Remitly then he hadnt entered one on their system. As Remitly hadnt responded to Mr Rs 
complaint then he brought his complaint to our service.
Remitly responded to our investigator that Mr R had put incorrect details on his payment 
submission. This resulted in the payment being made to a different account than the 
intended recipient. Remitly said that Mr R had contacted them on 19 April 2021, to report 
that he had submitted incorrect account details and Remitly tried to recall the funds from the 
actual recipients bank. 
Remitly said that they were unable to retrieve Mr Rs funds as the recall request was 
rejected by the beneficiaries bank, as the account owner was not accessible for debit 
content. They explained that their terms and conditions show they werent liable for any 
customer errors.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said that Remitly had provided a chat 
transcript with Mr R which showed he told them that he had entered an incorrect bank name. 
She also said that as Mr R had often sent money through Remitly then he should be aware 
that he would need to include an IFSC. But, as highlighted in their terms and conditions, 
Remitly are not responsible nor liable for any loss that a customer may incur as a result of 
providing incorrect or incomplete details. Mr R asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered why the payment hasnt been received by the person Mr R intended it to go 
to. From looking at all of the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that the payment was 
sent with errors, which resulted in the intended recipient not receiving this money based on 
the information that Mr R entered onto the payment system.
I say this as Mr R tells Remitly that the beneficiary name he input was incorrect. He later 
then tells a Remitly chat agent that he had put it wrong (the bank name) when I was doing 
the transactionright bank name is (correct name of the bank). 
Ive also considered that Mr R says he didnt enter an IFSC code because Remitly didnt ask 
him to. I asked Remitly about this. Remitly confirmed that if a transaction is under a certain 
amount then they wouldnt ask the customer for an IFSC as this was hardcoded into their 
system based on the bank name the customer enters. So as Mr R chose an incorrect bank, 
this is why the money went to the incorrect bank. 
In looking at the terms and conditions Mr R will have needed to agree to, to use Remitly, it 
states under term 4.4 (3) that When you make a transaction with us, it is your responsibility 
to make sure that all the transaction details are complete, accurate and correct (including, 
without limitation, the recipient's and their banking details) as we may not always be able to 
let you change the details of your transaction once it's submitted to us for processing and 
they will be treated by us as correct (even if you have made a mistake)... If you provide 
incorrect information with your transaction instruction to us, we will use reasonable efforts to 
recover the funds for you but this is not guaranteed.
So as Mr R put an incorrect recipient name and an incorrect bank name, he did not ensure 
the details were accurate. I can see that Remitly have made reasonable efforts to recover 
the funds for Mr R, but unfortunately they have been able to do so, as ultimately this is out of 
their control. 
Remitlys terms and conditions also state that We will not be liable to you for any losses 
associated with the execution of a transaction if you don't provide us with the correct, 
accurate and complete details of your Recipient (including, without limitation, their banking 
details). So while Im sorry to hear that Mr Rs funds did not reach the intended recipient, I 
cant hold Remitly responsible for this for the reasons Ive already given. So it follows, I wont 
be asking Remitly to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman