DRN-4163464
The complaint
A company which Ill call K complains that First Data Europe Limited (trading as Clover
Merchant Services) incorrectly closed their account which meant they couldnt take card
payments.
The complaint is brought on Ks behalf by their director, Mr S.
What happened
For ease of understanding Ive set out a list of the parties involved in the complaint as
follows:
K  the complainant company
Clover  The merchant services provider responsible for processing transactions on
Ks behalf.
P  the account manager and service provider of the actual card terminal.
K told us:
They signed agreements with Clover and P on 28 February 2022, to provide
merchant services so they could take card and online payments from customers
when they started trading on 7 March.
When they attempted to set up the account on 7 March, the card terminal wasnt
working, and after repeated calls they were told their account had been closed. Their
account was inactive for three days, which caused a loss of income of around £3,000
as most of their turnover was taken through card or online payments.
They complained to P, but it said Clover had confirmed Ks account was ready to use
from 3 March, and it hadnt told Clover to suspend or cancel the account  nor had it
been told by Clover that there was a problem with Ks account after it had been 
approved.
P also said it wasnt responsible for any losses incurred by K from the card terminal
not working as expected.
Clover told us:
Ks account was closed after it received a request from P on 3 March, but it hadnt
been given a reason for this.
It then said the reason for the closure was due to incorrect bank details being held on
file, so internally the decision had been made to close the account until that could be
resolved.
On 10 March, P requested that it reinstate Ks accounts  which it had done. A few
days later it was asked to raise a complaint and investigate why the accounts had
been closed.
On 16 March, P made it aware that Ks account had the wrong bank details. It asked
P to send in a change of bank details form, but this wasnt received until 18 March. It
was then unable to make the requested change as Ks account was closed.
It apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid K £100 compensation, but it
thought P was responsible for Ks loss and suggested the company contact P to
complain instead.
Our investigator said that Clover had only provided limited information to this service 
despite numerous requests  so based on what shed seen, she recommended the
complaint be upheld. She said that it was reasonable for Clover to complete its internal
checks. However she didnt think it had made K aware that their account had been closed
and they wouldnt be able to use their merchant services as expected. So she thought
Clover should pay a further £100 compensation.
K didnt agree with Clovers explanation as they had provided all the required information
before 3 March when theyd received confirmation it had opened their account. They also
didnt think the compensation was enough to cover the loss and inconvenience caused, so
they asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 May 2023. I said the following: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive decided to 
uphold it, Ill explain why.
K says that it was caused a financial loss and was inconvenienced when their card 
terminal didnt work as expected on their opening weekend. K says they werent 
aware that their account hadnt been set up correctly and that theyd repeatedly 
contacted Clover to try and get the terminal working each day without success. 
Clover initially said that it had closed Ks account as it had received a request from P 
to do so. But Im not persuaded thats the case.
I havent seen any evidence from Clover that a request or any correspondence of this 
nature was received from P. I think its also worth noting that since the complaint has 
been brought to this service, Clover has now changed its version of events to say 
that Ks account was closed due to an internal check that took place as part of its 
onboarding process for K. So I think its likely that Clover was responsible for the 
terminal issues, rather than P.
Clover has since told us that Ks account was closed due to an issue with their bank 
details when it undertook its anti-money laundering checks. Clover has regulatory 
and legal obligations that it needs to adhere to, so I think it was reasonable that it 
needed to ensure the information held for K was correct. However, I havent seen 
any evidence that Clover made K, or P as the related party, aware that there was an 
issue and that some of the information it held needed to be corrected. Ive also seen 
evidence from P which shows that on 3 March, Ks account was showing as 
accepted by Clover. So I think its reasonable that K believed their terminal would 
work as expected when they went to use it.Ive looked at the evidence from both parties and I can see that K signed the 
merchant agreement on 28 February, with an agreed start date of 7 March. So I think 
its reasonable to believe that Clover had sufficient time to check the background 
information it had received from K was correct before the terminal was needed. I 
recognise Clover said it needed to be sure Ks details were correct for it to provide 
the company with an active terminal. However, Ks terminal was reactivated on 10 
March before any updated information had been requested or confirmed on 18 March 
after K had made a complaint. So I think it would have been fair for Ks terminal to 
remain active whilst it clarified what was required from K as its clear from Clovers 
actions several days later that it was able to do so.
K has told us that it repeatedly called P and Clover to find out why the terminal didnt 
work, and that this caused them inconvenience due to the number of calls they had 
to make. They also told us that theyd been caused a financial loss because it was 
their opening weekend, and they werent able to take card payments, so their income 
was reduced. Its not disputed by either party that K was caused inconvenience by 
Clovers actions, it has apologised and offered £100 compensation. However I dont 
think thats enough to put things right.
K has explained that it was their opening weekend, so I think its understandable that 
they wanted to create a good impression and not being able to take card payments 
would impact this. K has also told us that they made numerous calls attempting to 
resolve the terminal issue over the three-day period. So I think Clover should 
increase the compensation for inconvenience by a further £150 bringing the total to 
£250 to reflect the impact on what would have been an important time for the 
company during its opening weekend.
K told us that they incurred a financial loss of around £3,200 as they werent able to 
take card payments and also incurred a loss of perishable goods that couldnt be 
sold. K has provided some evidence of their losses; however Im not persuaded that 
K actually suffered the whole of the losses it claims to have suffered. K says that it 
was unable to sell perishable goods over the three days which totalled £1095, I find 
this evidence persuasive, so I think its fair that this is refunded.
I also think its fair that Clover covers the losses which K would have incurred from 
the sale of these goods. K has also said that they work on a profit margin of around 
30% so I think its fair that Clover compensate K for the loss of profit on these goods. 
Its also worth noting that K mitigated their losses by not defrosting other stock during 
the three-day period as they didnt know when the terminal issue would be resolved. 
So I think its fair that K should be compensated for the loss of profit on those sales 
too.
However, whilst I acknowledge K has shown their card sales for the following weeks, 
and provided their margins and costs, these arent all impacted by Clovers actions. 
Ive looked at all the evidence K has provided, however the costs they have detailed 
would always have been payable. I entirely accept that if Clover hadnt stopped Ks 
card terminal working that their turnover would have been higher - and in line with the 
evidence provided for the following weeks - as some of Ks potential customers 
would have decided to go elsewhere rather than pay in cash. However, I think its 
likely that some of Ks customers would have paid in cash, so I dont think Clovers 
mistake led to a complete loss of all the sales that K would have otherwise received 
by card.
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think its fair for Clover to refund K for their 
missed turnover on the additional costs that they wouldnt have had to pay as a result of Clovers error. So I think its likely K did incur a loss from losing the perishable 
goods and a loss of profit from the missed sales of these goods and customers who 
didnt wish to pay in cash. So I think Clover should pay K £2,000 for the financial loss 
they incurred.
I invited K and Clover to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. K accepted the decision and had nothing further to 
add. Clover didnt say whether it agreed or disagreed with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Therefore, as K has said it accepts the decision and Clover hasnt responded with any 
further information, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to my provisional 
decision. So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct First Data Europe Limited to do the 
following:
Refund K £2,000 for the financial loss.
Pay K a further £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused, in addition to the
£100 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman