DRN-2011106
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Buffa Loans Limited, (BLL), gave him a loan that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
Mr S took out one instalment loan with BLL for £200 on 15 November 2019. The loan was 
repayable by four monthly repayments of £71.78. Mr S hasnt repaid the loan.
Mr S complained to BLL a week after taking out the loan. He said that his expenses were 
greater than his income, he was only in receipt of statutory sick pay and was unemployed 
and he was gambling heavily. Mr S said that BLL should have been aware that he had five 
outstanding short term loans, two personal loans and a car loan at the time hed taken out 
his loan. Mr S said that BLL hadnt carried out sufficient checks and should have asked for 
bank statements and wage slips. 
BLLs final response letter said that it had asked Mr S for his income and expenses and it 
had made credit checks including checking the amount of Mr Ss credit commitments.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed. He said that BLL didnt complete a credit check as this would have shown 
that BLLs loan was the seventh loan hed taken out within a matter of days and that hed 
been searching multiple loan companies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mr S took out his loan. The relevant 
rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that BLL needed to 
check that Mr S could afford to meet his repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mr 
S being able to meet his repayments out of his normal income without having to go without 
or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks BLL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr S would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
BLL has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr S. It asked him for his income 
and expenses. I note from BLLs records that Mr S had declared his income as £1,500, his 
credit repayments as £600 and other expenses as £160. 
I also note that BLL carried out a credit check before the loan which I will refer to below.
I can see that weve received a credit report from Mr S and that this shows that Mr S had 
around three short term loans at the time he applied for BLLs loan. But Im aware that when 
a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same 
level of detail that a consumers credit report will, and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender 
might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same 
credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any differences between the information 
provided by BLLs credit checks and Mr Ss own credit report and actual situation.
Ive thought about whether BLLs checks were proportionate for the loan. I note Mr S needed 
to make four monthly repayments of £71.78 to repay the loan. I can see that the repayments 
were relatively modest compared to Mr Ss declared disposable income.  
BLL has provided this service with information provided in its credit checks. I can see that 
BLLs credit checks before the loan showed that Mr S had a total credit balance of £9,529 
and four active accounts. The most recent active account had been opened in late 
September 2019 and was an unsecured loan. He also had a hire purchase agreement, a 
current account and a telecommunications account. The checks showed that three accounts 
had been opened in the last six months and that Mr S didnt have any delinquent accounts or 
defaults in the previous twelve months. He also wasnt bankrupt, nor in an individual 
voluntary arrangement and he didnt have any county court judgements against his name. 
There had been 18 searches in the previous three months, but none in the previous nine 
days. In its final response letter, BLL said that Mr Ss monthly credit commitments were 
£526. Overall, I cant see that BLL would have been aware from the checks I've seen that Mr 
Ss finances were under pressure. And, I dont think the repayment amounts on the loan 
were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr S financial difficulty.
I think that the checks BLL carried out before agreeing the loan were proportionate. Given 
Mr Ss repayment amounts for the loan, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and that this was his first loan with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for BLL to ask him for the amount of information, such as bank statements, 
that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
So, I'm not persuaded that BLL lent irresponsibly on this occasion.
I appreciate that Mr S said that hed taken out other loans with other lenders prior to his 
loans with BLL. But for the reasons given above, BLL may not have been aware of these 
from its credit checks when Mr S applied for his loan with it. And unless Mr S had disclosed 
his other payday loans when hed asked for his loans from BLL, I cant safely say that BLL 
would have found out about them with the proportionate checks it carried out that I think 
were reasonable.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but for the reasons set out above, it follows that Im not 
upholding this complaint. If as seems likely a balance remains outstanding, BLL should 
attempt to agree a mutually acceptable repayment arrangement with Mr S bearing in mind 
the need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions if he is still suffering 
financial difficulties.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman