DRN-3726085
The complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to put his pension benefits into 
payment in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr O held pension savings with Aviva. In July 2021, as he approached his 65th birthday the 
following month, Mr O completed an application to purchase an annuity from Aviva. Mr O 
was already being paid an annuity by Aviva, so anticipated that the process would be 
relatively straightforward.
But between July and December 2021 Aviva made a number of requests for Mr O to provide 
identity documentation, including certified copies of his passport, bank statements and other 
documents. Mr O is resident overseas, although has a UK bank account, so the process was 
at times prolonged. The annuity set up was completed in January 2022. Aviva has accepted 
that it would have been reasonable to expect Mr Os annuity to be set up by his birthday in 
August 2021.
When Mr O complained to Aviva about the delays it agreed to backdate the start of his 
annuity to August 2021. And it paid him £100 for the inconvenience hed been caused. But at 
first Aviva only backdated the start of the annuity to December 2021, so Mr O only received 
two months backdated payments rather than the promised six. It wasnt until April 2022 that 
the start date was corrected and the additional back payments were made to Mr O.
When Mr O first made his complaint to this Service, Aviva hadnt corrected the start date of 
the annuity. And later it failed to explain the corrections it had done. And when our 
investigator started to assess the complaint, Aviva also failed to provide that information to 
him. So the investigator assessed the complaint based on the information he held at that 
time.
The investigator asked Aviva to pay the missing annuity payments to Mr O. And he thought 
that Aviva should add interest to those payments to reflect the time that Mr O had been 
without his money. The investigator also asked Aviva to pay a further sum of £250 to Mr O to 
reflect the inconvenience that had been caused by its poor service.
Mr O accepted the investigators assessment. But Aviva pointed out that it had paid the 
additional annuity payments to Mr O before the assessment had been issued. So it said that 
it didnt agree with the adjudicators proposals. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr O accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr O and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Since our investigator issued his assessment, Aviva has confirmed that some of the 
compensation he recommended has been paid. And it seems that Aviva has now explained 
to Mr O how those additional payments have been calculated and he accepts those 
explanations. But, like our investigator, Im not persuaded that simply making the back 
payments is sufficient to compensate Mr O for the delays in putting his annuity into payment.
Aviva has agreed, and demonstrated by the back payments, that it thinks it would have been 
reasonable for Mr Os annuity to start on his 65th birthday in August 2021. So, had nothing 
gone wrong, Mr O would have received annuity payments each month from then onwards. 
Although Aviva has now paid those annuity payments to Mr O, it also needs to recognise 
that he was without the use of those funds in the intervening period. So I think it would be 
reasonable for Aviva to pay simple interest on each payment to compensate Mr O for the 
delay.
As I said earlier, Mr O is generally resident overseas. So Avivas requests for identity 
information and evidence were perhaps more onerous than if hed lived in this country. Mr O 
was already in receipt of pension benefits from Aviva so it isnt clear what additional 
evidence Aviva should have requested. Our investigator asked Aviva for details of its 
processes, but Aviva failed to provide that information.
There is no doubt that Avivas processes caused some inconvenience to Mr O. And I havent 
seen anything that persuades me that Avivas requests were necessary or appropriate. So 
like our investigator I think Mr O should be paid some compensation for the inconvenience 
he has been caused. As I previously explained, Aviva has already paid Mr O £100 for his 
inconvenience, but I think a greater amount of compensation is warranted. So I direct Aviva 
to pay an additional £250 (making a total payment of £350) to Mr O for his inconvenience. 
And I think a payment of that nature also reasonably recompenses Mr O for the overseas 
courier costs that he incurred.
Putting things right
Aviva has accepted that Mr Os annuity should reasonably have started in August 2021. 
Aviva has said that it has now backdated the start of the annuity to that date, and paid the 
missed annuity payments to Mr O. But Aviva needs to add simple interest at a rate of 8% per 
annum to each of these amounts from the date they should have been paid to the date of the 
actual payment. HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva to take off tax from this interest. 
Aviva must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Aviva should additionally pay £250 (making a total payment of £350) to Mr O for his 
inconvenience.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman