DRN-2825583
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited wont provide additional funding for legal costs 
under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
Mr J has been supported in his complaint by lawyers, however for ease, in this decision I will 
only refer to Mr J.
What happened
Below is intended only to provide a brief summary of the events that led to this complaint. It 
does not therefore list all of the points made or provide a full timeline of events.
In February 2019, Mr J took out a legal expenses insurance policy alongside his home 
insurance. 
In May 2019, Mr J contacted Aviva for assistance with legal costs for an employment 
dispute. He wanted to raise a claim for disability discrimination, failure to make reasonable 
adjustments, and harassment due to disability and victimisation.  Aviva considered Mr Js 
claim but declined to provide funding as it said the policy didnt cover incidents (or a series of 
incidents) which started before the policy start date.  It said Mr J had previously raised 
issues about the way he was being treated and had attended a recent disciplinary hearing 
related to his performance at work. Mr J had also been put on notice at that point his 
sickness absence levels were under review and further absence may result in disciplinary 
proceedings. 
In early December 2019, Mr J approached Aviva again to make a further claim for 
discrimination and victimisation. Aviva obtained an opinion from a Barrister and the claim 
was then declined as it wasnt thought likely to succeed. However, based on the Barristers 
findings, it did agree to provide proportionate funding to pursue a claim for breach of contract 
and unlawful deduction of pay. 
In late December 2019, Mr J said he wanted to bring claims against two other employees for 
victimisation and discrimination. Aviva declined these claims on the same basis it had 
previously  as the incidents (or start of the series of incidents) occurred before the start of 
the policy.  
In April 2020, Mr J submitted two further claims to Aviva. One for unfair dismissal, 
discrimination, harassment, victimisation and breach of contract.  And, the other against a 
further employee for harassment, bullying, discrimination and unfair treatment. 
Aviva at this point obtained further legal opinion on the prospects of the claims succeeding, 
as this was a requirement of the policy.  Counsel confirmed the claims for unfair dismissal 
and failure to make reasonable adjustments had prospects, as did the claim for 
discrimination. However, Counsel didnt think the claim for victimisation was likely to be 
successful. 
Aviva agreed to provide funding up to the limit of indemnity of the policy, £50,000, for Mr J to 
pursue these matters. 
At this point Mr J asked Aviva if it was prepared to provide a second limit of indemnity so he 
could pursue the first disability discrimination and harassment claim he made, on the basis 
they as a whole, had now been determined to have prospects of succeeding. He further 
explained that in law, the acts which happened after his dismissal would be considered 
separately and therefore, he should be entitled to two separate funding limits.
Aviva declined to provide Mr J with a second limit of indemnity. It said the policy only allowed 
one claim to be made for a series of events. So, on this basis it would only provide one limit 
of indemnity to Mr J to pursue his claims against his employer. It did however recognise that 
at times it had delayed responding to Mr J, so it offered him £200 compensation. Mr J didnt 
agree with Aviva so brought his complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Js complaint but let him know she didnt think Aviva had 
done anything wrong. She thought it had made the right decisions on providing funding for 
each of his claims in line with the policy and explained the policy did limit Mr J to only being 
able to make one claim. She thought that although acts of discrimination and harassment 
may have occurred at different times, they were all so closely linked by cause and time that 
they would be treated as a series under the terms of the policy. The investigator also 
explained she thought the compensation offered for the delay in responding to Mr J was 
reasonable. 
Mr J did not agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. In 
doing so, he reiterated many of the points he had previously made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has made considerable submissions in bringing his complaint. And whilst I dont intend 
to respond in similar detail, I have read all his correspondence and taken it into account 
when making my decision. So, if I dont mention any particular point or piece of evidence it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. I hope Mr J doesnt take this as a discourtesy; it is just a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
I understand Mr Js legal claims are very important to him and he feels very strongly about 
the way he has been treated by his employer. I also understand that he has now exhausted 
the funding provided by Aviva, his legal claims are still ongoing and he now paying privately 
for them. 
The decision I have to make here is whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably, in line 
with the policy terms and conditions in declining to provide Mr J with a second limit of 
indemnity under the policy. 
Having considered everything, I dont think it has done anything wrong. Ill explain why. 
Mr Js legal expenses insurance policy, like many others, outlines the instances where cover 
wont be provided by the policy. Most relevant to the complaint here, are the following:Disputes with your employer which commenced before or within the first 30 days of 
this cover starting unless you had a similar policy which finished immediately before 
this cover began.
Any claim we reasonably believe you knew was likely to happen when you took out 
this insurance, e.g. where you were already in a disciplinary process at work before 
taking out this policy, which then led to you making a claim for unfair dismissal.
Claims where the initial dispute or series of incidents leading to a claim on this policy 
happen before this cover starts or after it comes to an end as shown on your 
schedule. You can only make one claim for all disputes arising from the same 
incident.
When providing its file to this service, Aviva made the point that it made an error in providing 
funding at all. It said that its previous decision to decline the claims due the fact the first in 
the series of incidents happened before the policy started, was the correct decision. And, 
because of this, it shouldnt have agreed to provide funding for the claims later on, even 
though they had prospects, as it felt they were all connected. It also pointed out that Mr Js 
lawyers had previously also confirmed the claims were linked. 
Mr J argues the incidents that happened after he was dismissed, are legally considered to 
be separate.
My role here isnt to decide the legal position of the claims Mr J has made, it is to decide if 
Aviva has applied the above exclusions to Mr Js claim correctly. 
Mr J has confirmed he didnt have a previous legal expenses policy, so I need to consider if 
Aviva was correct to say the events Mr J wanted to claim about started happening before his 
policy did. 
I can see he had previously been involved in disciplinary proceedings about his performance 
and he had attended a wellbeing meeting where he was put on notice about the impact of 
his sickness levels.  I can also see from correspondence on file that Mr J had raised 
concerns about how he was being treated at work and his working conditions in relation to 
his health conditions. And these incidents happened before the policy started. 
Based on the above, I think Aviva correctly declined to cover Mr Js claims for disability 
discrimination and harassment.  I also think it is more likely than not, for insurance purposes, 
all subsequent incidents that Mr J wanted to claim for were closely linked to the events that 
started before the policy did. 
However, Aviva did later go on to provide funding for some of Mr Js claims, while it is 
arguable as set out above that it didnt need to, it did so in any event. 
The question I have to answer is was it then unreasonable for Aviva to refuse to provide a 
second limit of indemnity? Even if I accept Mr Js argument that the incidents which 
happened at and after his dismissal should be treated separately.  Given Aviva arguably 
shouldnt have provided the first limit, Mr J still would only have had one limit afforded to him 
had Aviva not made that error and accepted his arguement.
Mr J has pointed to a final decision made by this service and has suggested this shows he 
should be provided with two limits of indemnity. We look at each complaint on its own 
individual circumstances, so the final decision Mr J has pointed to does not impact the 
decision I need to make here. For completeness, I can confirm that the previous decision referenced a definition of a word and how an insurer had incorrectly used that to decline a 
claim. In Mr Js case, his policy has specific exclusions which Aviva has relied upon. 
Overall, having reviewed everything, I think Mr J has been provided with the correct amount 
of funding available under his policy and as such, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything 
more here. 
As Aviva has acknowledged, it did delay in responding to some of Mr Js communications. It 
offered £200 compensation for this which I think is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman