DRN-1229308
 
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with TSB Bank plc (TSB) because her account has become overdrawn as 
a result of the errors TSB has made. Shes also unhappy with the service shes received as 
she asked for the compensation amount to be paid to her by cheque. Instead, TSB credited 
her account directly with this amount. 
What happened
Mrs F opened her account in February 2018. Shed experienced problems with her account 
in April 2018 when TSB had migrated its systems. 
She says all the bills that were due to be paid had left her account, so she transferred the 
remaining balance out of her account. However, not all the bills had been paid so when they 
were debited, her account was left overdrawn. The overdraft wasn't authorised. She made a 
complaint to TSB at the time and it issued a final response in January 2019. It apologised for 
the errors and as the bank was aware that customers balances might not have been 
accurate (because of the system upgrade), it offered Mrs F £100 for the inconvenience 
caused and £50 any costs she incurred. TSB also refunded all overdraft fees and interest 
charges Mrs F had incurred for March, April and May 2018. The £150 was paid directly into 
her account and that reduced her overdrawn balance. Mrs F was unhappy and said she 
wanted the amount in the form of a cheque. TSB responded and apologised again and paid 
her £171.52. But this amount was again paid directly into her account and again reduced the 
overdrawn balance. 
TSB further looked into the issue and sent a separate cheque to Mrs F for £171.52 in July 
2019. It also left the two amounts of money totalling £321.72 (£150 and £171.52) in her 
account. So in total Mrs F received £493.04 in recognition of the errors made by TSB. She 
has a balance outstanding on her account of £95.21 which she would like TSB to write off. 
She also wants the original £150 by cheque that TSB paid directly into her account. While 
Mrs F is unhappy that she has to repay this amount, TSB says the offer is more than fair and 
reasonable and wont agree to write off the outstanding amount. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn't uphold it. She said TSB has acted in 
line with what would be expected, and she thought the total compensation of £493.04 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs F has asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to 
me. In summary, she says the only reason she went into an overdraft was because of the 
banks issues with the system migration at the time. She said shed made numerous calls 
and was told it was safe to transfer the remaining balance as all the bills had been paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. Mrs F said she was told by TSB that her bills had left her account, so she thought her 
balance reflected that she still had money in the account. Shes said she was told this over 
the phone. TSB has provided its contact notes which show no record of any phone calls 
between Mrs F and TSB and Mrs Fs been unable to show she called TSB. The evidence 
provided shows that the transfers Mrs F made were likely done through online banking. TSB 
said that its system upgrade problems meant Mrs Fs account may not have shown any 
pending transactions. But its shown that she actively transferred money out of her 
account after checking her balance. 
Whilst TSB migration issues meant some transactions could have been showing as pending, 
I think its reasonable to expect a consumer to roughly know their balance and any pending 
payments that were possibly due. But even if Mrs F wasn't aware at that exact moment, 
statements provided of her account show that bills hadn't been paid and were outstanding. 
Therefore, while I acknowledge she might not have known fully what payments were 
outstanding, its reasonable, that once TSB had made her aware, Mrs F takes some 
responsibility to ensure any outstanding debt is paid. Im not persuaded that TSB is entirely 
responsible for what happened. Having reviewed Mrs Fs account, it seems Mrs F logged 
into online banking and moved money in and out of the account so its also likely she was 
reasonably aware of her balance at the time and any potential due payments. 
Mrs Fs said she had to use the last of her money to make a payment to the outstanding 
overdraft. Im sorry to hear of the situation Mrs F has found herself in. But TSB is only asking 
for money that's due and as a result of the spending that's Mrs F has done on the account. 
So it's not unreasonable for TSB to request the money to be paid. I'm not persuaded that 
TSB has acted inappropriately in asking for the remaining overdrawn balance to be paid. 
Ultimately, TSB accepted there were issues with its system upgrade and therefore offered 
her compensation of £150. Its also accepted there were errors in handling the complaint and 
paid compensation twice directly into Mrs Fs account. I appreciate Mrs F has suffered 
inconvenience and stress but TSB has recognised its failings and has left the £321.72 in her 
account which has effectively reduced her overdrawn balance significantly. She also 
received a cheque for £171.52 and the bank has refunded any interest and charges as a 
result of any errors it made. 
Overall TSB has offered £493.04 and Im satisfied this compensation is more than fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I also think its reasonable for TSB to request Mrs F repay 
the outstanding amount of £95.21. I don't think it's appropriate for TSB to write off the 
outstanding overdraft balance or pay a further £150 by cheque to Mrs F. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint against TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman