DRN-3506189
The complaint
Ms F complains that Santander UK plc wouldnt allow her to port, or transfer, her mortgage 
to another property and charged her an early repayment charge (ERC) when she repaid the 
mortgage and moved to another lender.
What happened
Ms F took out a mortgage with Santander in 2016. She borrowed £175,000 over a term of 28 
years, on a capital and interest repayment basis. She took a new fixed interest rate every 
two years or so, most recently in April 2020, when she switched to a two-year fixed rate of 
1.79%. An ERC of 3% of the amount repaid was due if the mortgage were repaid during the 
fixed rate period. 
On 16 March 2021, through a broker, Ms F applied to Santander to port her mortgage to a 
new property. At the time, she owed around £152,000. She didnt want to borrow any more 
money, and she wanted to move to a more expensive property. Neither she nor her broker 
expected there to be any difficulties with the application being approved.
Santander issued an agreement in principle, and went on to ask various questions about Ms 
Fs circumstances. Ms F works in the travel industry, and Santander wanted to know 
whether her income and employment had been affected by the coronavirus pandemic, and 
to see various payslips. 
Ms F explained that getting the letters on headed paper from her employer which Santander 
had asked for wasnt possible because of restrictions in place due to the pandemic. Her 
broker asked Santander to contact her employer direct, but it wouldnt. Ms F was worried 
about losing her property sale and purchase, so she applied for a mortgage with another 
lender. She went on to take out a mortgage of around £148,000 with another mainstream 
lender. 
The sale of Ms Fs property completed on 31 March 2021 and the Santander mortgage was 
redeemed. Ms F paid an ERC of just over £4,500.
Ms F complained about the stress and anxiety Santander had caused her, and also about 
the ERC. Santander said it hadnt completed its assessment of Ms Fs application; instead, 
Ms F had chosen not to proceed. It said it hadnt done anything wrong and it wouldnt refund 
the ERC. 
Our Investigator found that Ms Fs application to Santander was for a mortgage over a 
shorter term than her existing arrangement. That would have meant an increase in her 
monthly mortgage payments under the new mortgage arrangement. In these circumstances, 
the Investigator concluded that it was reasonable for Santander to have wanted to satisfy 
itself that Ms F could afford the new monthly payments before agreeing to her application. 
Ms F didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. Her broker did another 
affordability check with Santander which came back with a possible £135,000 mortgage  so 
he said the 20-year term wasnt the issue, and another mainstream lender had granted a 
mortgage over 20 years, so Santander should have been able to do the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the Investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons.
I can understand why Ms F thought there should be no problem with moving her mortgage to 
another property. The mortgage documents said the mortgage could be ported, she had 
always made her mortgage payments in full and on time, she didnt want to borrow any more 
money, and she wanted to move to a more expensive property  so the loan-to-value ratio 
would reduce.
Importantly, though, Ms Fs application was for a mortgage over a term of 20 years, instead 
of the 23 years she had left on her existing mortgage term. That represented a material 
change to her mortgage arrangement and would have resulted in higher monthly mortgage 
payments than the amounts Ms F had been paying each month. Santander says the 
increase would have been around £80 a month. 
Against this background, I think it was entirely reasonable for Santander to want to satisfy 
itself that Ms F would be able to afford the mortgage if it went ahead on the new, shorter 
term. 
I note that Ms F has said the term wasnt a big issue for her, and she would have kept it at 
23 years had she known it was a problem. But Santander wasnt to know that. It assessed 
the application that was presented to it (via an independent broker), as Id expect it to have 
done  and that assessment needed to include the affordability of the proposed mortgage 
arrangement.
Ive looked carefully at how Santander dealt with the application, and I think it was 
reasonable in asking for more information about Ms Fs finances. I can see why it wanted to 
know more about Ms Fs employment situation given that she worked in the travel industry 
and against the background of the coronavirus pandemic. I can also see that Ms F had 
difficulty in getting letters from her employer, and I think Santander could have been more 
flexible with some of its requirements in the circumstances  although that is not to say it 
should necessarily have accepted phone call confirmation of Ms Fs income from her 
employer. 
Santanders records say that, amongst other things, it asked the broker some questions 
about a mistake on Ms Fs February 2021 payslip, and it didnt get the March 2021 payslip it 
asked for because the broker wanted it to phone Ms Fs employer instead. Ms F then 
cancelled her application and got a mortgage elsewhere. 
As a result, Santander never completed its assessment of Ms Fs application. I recognise 
that Ms F was under some time pressure and that she and her broker were frustrated with 
the lack of progress. But there was never any guarantee that the mortgage could be ported, 
particularly on different terms, and it was reasonable for Santander to look properly at 
whether Ms F could afford the new arrangement before agreeing to it  including reviewing 
her payslips. 
While another mainstream lender lent Ms F almost the same amount as she wanted from 
Santander, that doesnt mean Santander should have done the same: each lender has its own lending criteria. Im also mindful that Santander might ultimately have approved the 
application had it received more information  and I dont think Santander caused undue 
delay. The application was made on 16 March 2021 and withdrawn in early April 2021. 
In all the circumstances, I dont find that I can fairly require Santander to refund the ERC or 
otherwise compensate Ms F. I consider it was entitled to assess her application fully and it 
was entitled to apply the ERC when she redeemed her mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman