DRN-2127824
The complaint
Mr A complains about Starling Bank Limited rejecting his application to open a bank account 
and issues relating to him being able to use a mobile phone application to make payments. 
Mr A believes Starling discriminated against him on the basis of his race and religion.
What happened
Mr A phoned Starling after his application to open a bank account was declined. Starling told 
him it wouldnt be able to give him a reason for this. He could apply again in 12 months time.
Mr A couldnt think of any legitimate reason for his application being declined. He said he 
had an excellent credit history, hed never been made bankrupt or involved in any fraud. He 
felt he was being discriminated against because of his race and religion. The Starling 
representative assured him that wouldnt be the reason. But said he couldnt give him any 
further information.
After some discussion, Mr A was transferred to a manager who said hed arrange for Mr As 
application to be reviewed again. The same day, Mr As application was accepted, and an 
account was opened for him.
A couple of days later, Mr A tried to add his Starling card to his mobile phone payments 
application, but it wouldnt work. He contacted Starling by instant message and phone to try 
to get this resolved. Starling told Mr A it had recently updated its security rules, and this had 
impacted the ability for some mobile wallets to connect with Starling cards. It told him the 
rules might apply to Mr A and it wasnt able to amend this.
Mr A was very upset and felt again that Starling was discriminating against him. He was 
planning to transfer money to his Starling account so he could use it while abroad on 
holiday. He was worried hed have problems accessing his money while he was away. 
Starling told him it couldnt tell him why it was unable to allow him to use the mobile phone 
application, but it wasnt to do with his race or religion. He shouldnt have any issues 
transferring money and using it abroad.
Mr A made a complaint to Starling. It said it didnt discriminate against customers. Mobile 
wallet services werent available to all of its customers but might become available to Mr A at 
a later stage. It apologised for distress caused by initially declining his application, which was 
an oversight on Starlings part. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns and thought his complaint should be upheld. She recommended Starling 
pay Mr A £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by the issues 
relating to the opening of the account. But she was satisfied that Starlings decision to 
prevent Mr A adding his card to the mobile phone payments application was fair. 
Starling disagreed with our investigators view. It agreed it had made an error but thought our 
investigators recommendation for compensation was too high because there wasnt a 
financial impact on Mr A. It said it was willing to offer Mr A £100 for the stress caused by its 
mistake in initially denying him the account. 
As Starling has disagreed with our investigators recommendation, Mr As complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The Equality Act 2010 says a person must not be treated less favourably because of their 
race or religion. We dont have the power to decide if the Equality Act 2010 has been 
breached. That is a matter for the courts. But Ive taken this Act into account when deciding 
whether Starling has acted fairly and reasonably  given that its relevant law.
Starling has acknowledged that Mr As initial application to open an account was declined 
due to an error on its part. Its willing to pay £100 but thinks the £250 our investigator 
recommended is too high. So, I need to decide what amount of compensation is fair, in view 
of whats happened and the impact its had on Mr A.
Starling says it wasnt discriminating against Mr A when it initially declined his application for 
an account. But its willing to pay Mr A £100 because of the stress he experienced due to the 
thought hed been rejected due to discrimination.
Mr A has raised concerns about having to upload a video of himself as part of the account 
application process. But I dont think this alone suggests Starling had any intention to treat 
him differently because of his race or religion. Starling says it requires customers to do this 
for security purposes and I think this is reasonable. I havent seen any other evidence to 
persuade me that Starlings decision to reject Mr As application was because of his race or 
religion. So, I think this is more likely to have been due to a genuine error on its part. Ive 
also kept in mind that Starling put things right the same day Mr A contacted it about this. 
But having listened to recordings of the phone conversations between Mr A and Starling, Im 
persuaded that this mistake had a fairly big impact on Mr As mental health. Although 
Starling agreed to reassess Mr As application once he was put through to a manager, 
before this he was told repeatedly that the application couldnt be considered again. Mr A 
has mentioned suffering from anxiety, which he takes medication for and hes also spoken of 
being a victim of discrimination in the past. Given that there wasnt a valid reason for the 
application being initially declined, I can understand why Mr A reached the conclusion it was 
due to discrimination. And this was very upsetting for him, given his mental health problems. 
With this in mind, I think it would be fair for Starling to pay Mr A £250 for the trouble and 
upset he experienced. 
Mr A has also complained that he wasnt able to add his Starling card to his mobile phone 
application. Starling says this was due to a recent change in rules to protect customers and 
reduce fraud. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded Mr As phone didnt meet the criteria set 
by the provider of the mobile application. Starlings terms and conditions also make it clear 
that it has the right to stop customers from using the mobile phone application. While it was 
no doubt frustrating for Mr A that he was unable to add his card to the application, I dont 
think Starlings decision to prevent him from doing so was unfair. Putting things right
Starling should pay Mr A £250 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Starling Bank Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman