DRN-2842548
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr S payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 25 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. 
Mr S says he had no idea he was buying PPI. He was young, this was his first mortgage, 
and he had no idea what PPI was. He says he would have used it a few years later, if hed 
known about it  he was made redundant in 1998 and was unemployed for a while. Mr S is, 
effectively, saying the PPI was added without his knowledge.
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. And I dont have that evidence.  As a general principle of fairness, 
where someone has said another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there 
needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt normally be fair 
to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long 
time ago. 
I acknowledge the point about the 1998 redundancy, but that isnt strong enough evidence to 
show that Bank of Scotland didnt discuss the PPI and gain Mr Ss informed consent to it, at 
the time. With all that is happening in buying a house, especially when it is a first mortgage, 
it would be possible to forget things that you agreed to, even if you were fully aware of it at 
the time. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr Ss consent.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr S, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Ss 
particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr S was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr S received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr S would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr S in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr S couldnt afford the PPI when he took it 
out, so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And he could have cancelled the policy if this 
changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr S would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr S to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming he was made aware it was being 
offered  which I accept he is sure didnt happen). 
Its hard now to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
made a difference to whether or not Mr S took the PPI. I say this because, in his 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman