DRN-3630737
The complaint
Mr J complains that NewDay Ltd have irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr J is represented by a solicitors firm in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made by Mr J himself.
What happened
Mr J was accepted for a NewDay branded credit card in June 2017 with a £450 credit limit.
This was later increased to £1,350 in November 2018. He says that NewDay mis-sold the
card to him as he was in arrears with his essential living costs at the time of the application.
Mr J also said he was suffering from health issues and failed to understand the information
in his credit agreement. The debt was later sold to a third party debt management company.
Mr J made a complaint to NewDay.
NewDay did not uphold Mr Js complaint. They said that they had considered the information
he included on his application, such as being employed with a gross annual salary of
£55,000 and having unsecured debt of £700. They also said that external information
available to them showed that he had four defaults, totalling £26,900 with the last one
occurring 27 months prior to his application, five County Court Judgements (CCJs), totalling
£11,500, payday loans with outstanding balances of £375 and no accounts in arrears.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He said that
the lending was unaffordable for Mr J as he had four defaults totalling £26,900 and five
CCJs totalling £11,500. He also said that as Mr J had outstanding payday loan balances
totalling £375, then he was either utilising payday loans at the time of the application, or he
had been unable to clear his previous payday loan balance.
Our investigator said NewDay should refund the fees and charges Mr J had incurred and
use this to reduce any outstanding balance. He said if this creates a positive balance then
this amount should be paid back to Mr J, with 8% simple interest added and any adverse
information should be removed from his credit file.
NewDay asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said they believed
sufficient checks had been completed and there was nothing to indicate that Mr J would
struggle with the credit card payments.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mr J, NewDay needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
Initial credit limit - £450
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did prior to accepting Mr Js application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Mr J had
given them, such as him being employed, earning a salary of £55,000 a year and they
looked at external data available to them. NewDay said that the data showed he was not in
arrears at the time of the application on any of his accounts.
So Ive considered if the checks that NewDay carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Mr J was given. And despite Mr J being approved for a relatively modest credit
limit, compared to his gross annual salary, Im persuaded there are other factors which
should have persuaded NewDay to make further checks and Ill explain why below.
NewDays data showed that Mr J had four accounts which previously defaulted with a total of
£26,900, with the last one being 27 months ago. The data also showed that Mr J had five
CCJs for a total of £11,500, with the last one being 17 months prior to being accepted for
the NewDay card. This could indicate that Mr J was not able to manage his unsecured
borrowings.
In addition, there was an outstanding balance of £375 on payday loans. This could indicate
that Mr J did not have enough disposable income to be able to meet his outgoings. But there
could also be a reason for Mr J having a payday loan where he may have needed to make a
one off large payment to cover the cost of a household item (and being unable to obtain
mainstream credit due to his defaults and CCJs) as opposed to relying on payday loans to
help meet his bills. Im persuaded all of this should have prompted NewDay to make further
checks to ensure the proposed credit limit would be affordable for Mr J.
So, I would have expected NewDay, as part of a proportionate check, to ask for further
information from Mr J to ensure that a £450 credit limit would be affordable and sustainable
for him, especially as he had an active payday loan balance and based on the multiple credit
agreements he had not adhered to previously. They could have done this by contacting Mr J
to discuss his personal circumstances at the time, or they could have asked for information
about his income and outgoings, such as requesting his recent bank statements, to see
whether the credit limit would be sustainable and affordable for Mr J.
So I asked Mr J if he could provide his bank statements for the time period before his
NewDay credit card application was accepted, as Im persuaded this is something that
NewDay could have done as part of a proportionate check to see if the NewDay credit card
would be affordable for him and to ensure he could make payments in a sustainable manner
based on the reasons Ive already mentioned. But Mr J did not respond to any requests to
provide me with his bank statements.
While Ive considered the volume of the accounts and total balances which have defaulted or
have had public records attached to them, Ive also needed to consider that a customers
past behaviour would not always be indicative of how they may manage an account in the
future. Here, NewDays records show that Mr J had three active accounts at the time of the
application and the total active unsecured borrowings was £700. So a £450 credit limit in
addition to his active unsecured borrowing would not be high in relation to his income of
£55,000. Although Mr J had a history of not managing a large amount of credit compared to
his income, I cant say that this factor alone automatically makes a relatively low credit limit
automatically unaffordable or unsustainable.So on the face of it, it does look like NewDay shouldve looked more closely into this. But as
my role is impartial, that means I have to be fair to both sides and although Im satisfied that
NewDay shouldve done more checks here  I cant say whether that wouldve revealed
further information which means they wouldnt have lent. So as Mr J hasnt provided me
with his bank statements, that means that it wouldnt be fair for me to say that NewDay
shouldnt have lent here, because I dont know what further checks would reveal.
November 2018 credit limit increase - £450 to £1,350
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Js credit limit to £1,350. They increased the credit limit by £900, which saw the credit limit
treble. NewDay had gathered a lot of information of how Mr J had used his account since
he opened the account and they had gathered a lot of external data from credit reference
agencies which show how Mr J was managing his external finances also. So, I would need
to see that the data NewDay had available to them would support the increase. But Im not
persuaded that it did and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at NewDays information about Mr Js account in the months leading up to the
credit limit increase. In the month prior to the credit limit increase, NewDays data shows Mr
J incurred a late payment charge. While this in isolation may not be something to be
concerned about, this could be masking further issues that Mr J was facing. NewDays data
shows that the number of active accounts has doubled from when he was first accepted for
the account to when his credit limit was increased. His revolving borrowings (eg credit cards)
shows a doubling of the credit limits (from £700 to £1,400) only two months prior to the credit
limit being trebled on his NewDay credit card.
But this is not all that NewDays data showed. It shows that the balance of Mr Js 
nonrevolving credit (eg personal loans) had increased from £0 (three months prior to the 
credit limit increase on the NewDay credit card) to £7,606 (two months prior to the credit limit
increase).
While I need to ensure that the credit is affordable, and Mr J hasnt been able to provide his
bank statements to prove this one way or another, I also need to ensure that the credit
NewDay made available to Mr J was able to be repaid in a sustainable manner within a
reasonable amount of time. Due to how Mr J managed his NewDay account and external
accounts, with the unsecured debt rising by a large amount - less than two months prior to
NewDay trebling his credit limit, then Im persuaded that NewDay should have taken these
factors into account and not have increased his credit limit here to £1,350.
I say this as by adding another £900 of credit which Mr J had available to him, his overall
borrowings would require a larger amount of his income. His NewDay minimum payments
would potentially treble from when his credit limit was £450 to £1,350. But if Mr J only made
minimum payments, the balance would not be repaid in a reasonable amount of time. Any
credit given to Mr J should not only be affordable, but also sustainable. But as Mr J appears
to have increased his credit card balances externally prior to the credit limit increase, in
addition to his other unsecured borrowings rising by £7,606 shortly before the credit limit
increase, this would be unlikely to be sustainable or affordable for Mr J moving forward.
NewDays information showed he had searched for four payday loans shortly before having
his credit limit trebled. And while the data doesnt show he took out any payday loans, it
indicates that he may need to take out a payday loan if he wasnt able to obtain other
borrowing.
So considering the recent events prior to the credit limit increasing  the doubling of the
number of active accounts Mr J had, the doubling of his external credit card limits, hisNewDay late payment, his appetite to look for further credit, the history of him not
maintaining nine previous credit agreements, his non-revolving unsecured borrowings
increasing by a substantial amount prior to his NewDay credit limit trebling, Im not
persuaded that based on the information NewDay had available to them, that Mr J would be
in a position to pay the credit back in an affordable or sustainable manner in a reasonable
timeframe. So it follows I intend to ask NewDay to put things right for Mr J.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr J said he had nothing to add to the provisional decision. NewDay did not 
respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said I intend to uphold the complaint in part and I intend to 
require NewDay Ltd to do the following:
NewDay should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed to a
debt recovery agent.
NewDay should also rework the account, refunding all interest and charges that have been
applied to any balances above £450. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be
refunded to Mr J along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each
overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information
recorded from November 2018 regarding this account from Mr Js credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £450, NewDay should arrange
an affordable repayment plan with Mr J for the remaining amount. Once Mr J has cleared the
outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded from November 2018 in relation to
the account should be removed from his credit file. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for 
the reasons given previously.
*If NewDay considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr J how much theyve taken off. They should also
give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. NewDay Ltd should settle the complaint in line with the 
instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman