DRN-3034253
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1998.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy in 1998. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The 
benefit would have been split 60% for Mr H and 40% for Mrs H. Lloyds told us that a 
successful claim would have paid out the relevant percentage of the monthly mortgage 
amount plus an additional sum each months for up to 12 months at a time if Mr or Mrs H 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or if they were made redundant. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken them into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I explain why below.
To get the cover Mr and Mrs H had to complete an application for it. I can see that they 
agreed to the cover at the time of the sale as they signed this application form. Mr and Mrs H 
feel they were led to believe they had to take the cover to get the mortgage. Lloyds has 
disagreed and told us it told Mr and Mrs H that they should, not that they had to, take the 
cover. The two testimonies differ. So, I have considered the other submissions in this case, 
including the documents that were signed at the point of sale. 
The application form for the cover was separate to the application for the mortgage. This 
may have suggested that applying for the cover was separate to, and not dependent on, 
their application for the mortgage. But that would depend on how it was positioned with them 
by Lloyds representative at the time. 
But where there is limited information, Ill make my decision based on what I think more likely 
happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types of sale. I must also give some thought to the way the 
passage of time can affect the accuracy of recall from events that happened over 23 years 
ago. So, having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more 
likely that Lloyds wouldve made Mr and Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and that they 
chose to take it, even though they may not remember that now, many years later. 
 
Mr and Mrs H told us that they felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this 
represents their best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs H 
only took the policy because they were put under pressure to do so.
Lloyds recommended that Mr and Mrs H take the PPI, so it had to check if it was right for 
them. From what I have seen of the policy and what Mr and Mrs H have told us about their 
circumstances at the time of the sale, I think it was. I explain below why I say this.
Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the policy 
wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mr and Mrs H at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions or non-standard 
employment terms. 
And I think Mr and Mrs H could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Mr 
and Mrs H told us they had good sick pay benefits, the policy could have paid in addition to 
their company sick pay and for longer than their employer would have paid them at their full 
rate of pay, most likely. And Mr and Mrs H told us they had no savings or any other means 
that they could rely on at the time of the sale, such that they may have had to rely on their 
family or friends for help in making their mortgage payments in the event either Mr or Mrs H 
had long term ill health, or if they lost their job. So, considering all of this, and the potentially 
serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on a home, I think Mr and Mrs H 
couldve found the policy useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
H.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs H, Lloyds also had to give them clear 
enough information about the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was 
suitable for them, I dont think better information wouldve stopped them from buying it. 
So, I do not think that Lloyds has to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
Lloyds doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid. My reasons are 
set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.But this only applies to certain types of credit taken out and still running at certain times. 
From the information that has been submitted in this case those dates do not apply to the 
date this credit was taken out and held until, so it falls outside of the scope for our 
consideration. So, I dont think Lloyds have to refund any of the commission paid on the 
PPI policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman