DRN-3497231
The complaint
Mr K, as a director, on behalf of K  a limited company is unhappy with an additional 
monthly fee charged by WorldPay Limited under a merchant services agreement and a fee 
charged for early termination of the same agreement.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both K and WorldPay. I wont repeat in 
any great detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on 
giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
K took out a merchant services agreement with WorldPay in 2017. Under the terms of the 
agreement, K are required to complete annual compliance for Payment Card Industry Data 
Security Standards (PCI DSS). In the absence of the compliance standard being met, a 
monthly fee is charged to the merchant. 
WorldPay say they contacted K around October and November 2020 to let them know that 
their compliance was expiring and that they needed to take action and what would happen if 
they took no action. K in turn has said around November 2020 they went online and took the 
necessary steps to show their compliance. 
K says they didnt realise until around April 2021 that theyd been charged a monthly fee of 
£15 plus vat for PCI non-compliance since December 2020. Unhappy, they asked to end 
their agreement with WorldPay and raised a complaint. WorldPay told K they would need to 
pay around £180 to end the agreement early.  
WorldPay didnt uphold Ks complaint. K referred their complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it 
be upheld. As K didnt accept the recommendations, the complaint has been referred to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
It's also important to state here that the approach of our Service isnt the same as a court of 
law. I make this point as K has made reference to criminal law and the test in that space. 
Our Service does of course consider the law. But its one of a number of considerations 
including - but not limited to, good industry practice and overall whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint. In scenarios where theres disagreement over exactly 
what happened, the approach I have to take is to decide what I think is more likely than not 
to have happened  based on the available evidence. 
The PCI charge 
The PCI charge is generally a common, industry standard charge. Merchant Acquirers 
(WorldPay in this case) have an obligation to the relevant card schemes to ensure their 
customers (K) are keeping customers data safe and secure. In scenarios where the 
merchant doesnt log or evidence their compliance, generally a monthly fee is charged by 
the merchant acquirer.
The relevant terms and conditions for this agreement from 2017 and also a more up to date 
version are shown below and Ive seen nothing to fairly conclude that WorldPay havent fairly 
applied this term. 
From 2017: The more recent terms:
Ive also looked at a copy of the application form completed in 2017 between K and 
WorldPay as well as the terms and conditions that underpin this agreement. On page three 
of the application its shows:
Directly underneath this, the associated PCI related charges (at that time) are outlined. Im 
satisfied that this information was made clear, and Mr K on behalf of K has signed the overall 
application to agree to the terms. 
WorldPay have told our Service that they contacted K prior to the expiry of their compliance 
in 2020 via the email address held on file for K. Ive noted that K hasnt disputed receiving 
these reminders. K says they went online and completed the necessary actions. But that it 
wasnt until around April 2021 they realised they were being charged over £15 per month for 
being non-compliant. 
In my opinion there are two likely, reasonable explanations here and Ive considered both 
scenarios.
There was an error/issue with WorldPays system that has meant K completing the 
necessary compliance hasnt been recorded and the monthly charge was charged 
afterwards, or; 
K hasnt completed compliance as required by the deadline given and WorldPay 
have subsequently charged the monthly non-compliance fee. 
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not seen enough evidence to be able to safely 
conclude exactly what happened here. So Ive then considered what has happened 
afterwards - including the impact on K. 
K was receiving copies of their monthly statements which would have outlined the extra 
charge. In their complaint theyve explained:
...we did not check invoices since December 2020 believing the increase in the 
invoice may have been due to card payment receipts, but we were wrong. You 
quietly began to add this charge from December 2020, and only in April 2021 when 
we checked the invoices, after WorldPay called us to inform that we will be charged 
an additional charge for safer payment non-compliance, we realised that you have 
already been charging us this amount since December 2021
In my opinion, regardless of how this charge came to be added, there was a reasonable 
amount of responsibility resting with K - particularly as they are running a business, to 
monitor what they were being charged. I accept that they attributed their higher monthly 
costs to a higher volume of transactions, but a review of their monthly statements much 
sooner wouldve highlighted the charge they werent expecting and they couldve mitigated 
their loss (additional charge) here. 
Im satisfied that when the issue of the charge was brought to their attention, K were given a 
fair opportunity to show they had in fact completed the necessary compliance action when 
they said they did and WorldPay were prepared to reconsider their position. But its 
understandable that K may not have kept contemporaneous records from that time if they 
assumed theyd done everything required. 
On balance, I find that WorldPay have treated K fairly, reasonably and in line with the 
agreement terms - and I dont require them to do anything further in relation to the PCI 
compliance fee.
The early termination charge
Its unfortunate that the PCI charge led to a breakdown in the relationship between K and 
WorldPay and K then decided they wanted out of the agreement early.
Ive reviewed a copy of the application form completed with K. Im satisfied that it makes it 
clear that the minimum term of the agreement was 18 months. Its also not in dispute that 
this agreement renewed at least once, as it was taken out in July 2017 but not cancelled by 
K until around June 2021. 
No copy of a hire agreement has been provided by either party in this complaint. But as our 
investigator has already said, its not plausible that a terminal would be provided, K would 
make payment each month and the agreement renewed more than once - without an 
agreement in place. The alterative explanation is that K completed an application form, 
WorldPay sent them a terminal and billed them each month without having any agreement in 
place and Im not persuaded by that explanation. 
Ive also noted that the application form stated:
This Application Form and your contract with us will be subject to our terms and 
conditions. You confirm that you have read and understood the terms and conditions 
of the Agreement a copy of which was provided to you with this Application Form and 
is available to download at.You are applying for the Services on the basis set out in 
this Application Form and agree to be bound by and comply with the AgreementUnder the relevant terms, as K wanted to exit the agreement prior to the end date, a 
termination fee became payable. In summary, the fee was the remaining minimum monthly 
payments minus a small discount. Im satisfied the terms made this clear and WorldPay 
have acted in line with the terms when K asked to exit the agreement before the end date.
An email sent to K from WorldPay after they asked to end their agreement made K aware of 
the early termination fees and at the bottom gave K an opportunity to reconsider their 
decision. I consider this fair and reasonable, but I also understand Ks reasons for wanting to 
continue to early termination.  
I acknowledge that my decision will likely disappoint K, but it brings to an end what our 
Service in trying to informally resolve their dispute with WorldPay can do for them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman