DRN-3110486
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Five Lamps Trading Ltd (Five Lamps) provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
  
What happened
Five Lamps provided Mr S with a fixed sum loan of £750 in June 2020. This loan was to be 
repaid in 3 months with a monthly repayment amount of £276.66. This all meant the total 
amount repayable of £829.98 was due to be repaid. Mr S fell into arrears from his first 
scheduled payment date and there is an amount outstanding. The debt was sold on by five 
lamps to a third party.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and upheld Mr Ss complaint. Five Lamps 
hasnt responded to the findings of our investigators view. So as the parties are still not in 
agreement, Mr Ss complaint has come to me an ombudsman, to make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are overarching questions that I 
need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ss complaint. These questions 
are:
Did Five Lamps complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do so?
Five Lamps provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Five Lamps to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Five Lamps had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr S. In practice this 
meant that Five Lamps had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Mr S undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Five Lamps to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Five Lamps checks reasonable and proportionate?
Five Lamps says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S prior to 
providing him with this loan. It says it also carried out a credit check and said it ran an online 
third-party affordability report. 
I have been able to see documentation submitted by Five Lamps that shows what Mr S 
disclosed to it at the time. He told it his income was around £2650 a month and expenditure 
£1075. This would leave Mr S with disposable income of £1574.12. So, on the surface of it 
the loan would have appeared affordable for him.
But I think Five Lamps should have carried out further checks to verify Mr Ss expenditure 
and to verify what he was saying in order to make sure that he could sustainably repay the 
loan repayments over the term of the loan. I say this because, when I look through the credit 
check results that it would have had in front of it when it was assessing affordability, I can 
see that Mr S had several defaults registered against his name. In particular, Mr S had 
defaulted on a telecoms account only 3 months before his application to Five Lamps for this 
loan. He also had 2 further defaults where he still had an outstanding balance to pay. This 
information would have seemed at odds with the information that Mr S was declaring to it. I 
think this ought to have prompted Five Lamps to want to carry out further checks to ensure 
that Mr S was in a position to sustainably repay the loan.  In conclusion and for the reasons given above, I dont think that the checks Five Lamps 
carried out before providing Mr S with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Five Lamps that Mr S 
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Five Lamps that Mr S would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Five Lamps was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Mr S has provided our service with bank statements from the period of time before this loan 
was granted. Ive carefully considered the information provided within these statements. 
Having done so, its clear Mr S was gambling significant amounts at the time he asked for 
this loan. In these circumstances, it is apparent to me that further checks would have shown 
Five Lamps that Mr S was unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without borrowing 
further or experiencing financial difficulty.
Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown Five Lamps that 
Mr S would not have been able to sustainably repay this loan. Five Lamps failure to carry 
out proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Mr S.
So, it follows that I think that Five Lamps needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
  I understand that the outstanding amount owed by Mr S has been sold by Five Lamps to a 
third party. So, it should look to buy this debt back if it can. Or if that is not possible it should 
work with the third party to do what I have prescribed below. 
I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for Five 
Lamps to put things right by:
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr S made, direct to Five Lamps, should be deducted from the new 
starting balance  the £750.00 originally lent. 
The amount repaid is less than £750.00. So, both parties should look to agree a 
payment plan. I would like to remind Five Lamps of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance when it does this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Five Lamps Trading Ltd and 
it now needs to put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Mark RichardsonOmbudsman