DRN-4384135
The complaint
Mrs H, through a representative, says Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs H opened a credit card with Lloyds in June 2017, she was given an initial limit of
£1,500. In September 2018 this was increased to £3,500 and in April 2019 to £4,000. Lloyds
closed Mrs Hs credit card account after she included the card in her debt relief order in
November 2021. It had an outstanding balance of £3,976.90.
She says Lloyds did not carry out proper checks and she was already struggling financially.
And it did not offer support when things got worse.
Lloyds says it carried out proportionate checks using what Mrs H told it when she applied,
what it already knew about her, and information from the credit reference agency. Mrs H
passed all its checks and she managed her account well until July 2021 when she informed
it she had lost her job. It pointed out she had requested the credit limit increases.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She said as Lloyds no longer has all the
results to share, and Mrs H has not sent the information requested, she did not have the
evidence to conclude the checks at the point of application were unreasonable or that the
debt was unaffordable. She felt the checks for the limit increases were proportionate and
showed the credit to be affordable.
Mrs H disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. I reached a 
different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows 
and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any comments or new 
evidence by 5 October 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
The credit card application
Lloyds says that it carried out all relevant checks when making its decision and the card was
deemed to be affordable for Mrs H. It says that Mrs H declared a gross annual income of
£15,366 and housing costs of £350. It used information it held about her and data from
credit reference agencies to estimate the monthly minimum repayments on her existing
credit. It allocated an amount for living costs based on national statistics. Its internal credit
decisioning system then looked at her credit history, the type of credit she was applying for
and her declared income to make its lending decision.
Lloyds no longer has the full results of these checks so I cannot know exactly what this
assessment showed. And I appreciate that Lloyds lending decision was automated, but this
does not mean that obvious available information should be ignored. Lloyds had an excellent
source of data about Mrs Hs financial circumstances  its own internal records. Mrs H had
an existing relationship with Lloyds as she held her current account at the bank. So
information was easily accessible and clearly relevant to her credit card application, and I
think that Lloyds should have taken this into account. Whilst in its final response letter it said
it used information it already held about Mrs H, I cant see it reviewed and took into
consideration her current account status.
As I have found its checks were not proportionate I have reviewed Mrs Hs bank statements
to see what Lloyds would have known had it done the same. From the bank statements it
has provided for the months before she applied, I cant see that Lloyds was wrong to open
the account for Mrs H. There were no signs of financial difficulties or instability, such as the
use of payday loans, returned direct debits or multiple gambling transactions. Mrs H was
using her overdraft facility but only towards the end of a month and at a relatively low level.
It follows based on the available evidence I dont think Lloyds was wrong to give the credit
card with its £1,500 limit to Mrs H.
The credit limit increases
Lloyds says it looked at how Mrs H was using her card, her repayment history and
information from the credit reference agencies. But again I would have expected it to check
her current account position as part of its proportionate checks. The first limit increase in
September 2018 was significant in value, and in the circumstances I am not wholly
persuaded by the argument that the good historical management of a lower limit is an
indicator that a much higher limit is sustainably affordable. And had it reviewed Mrs Hs
current account I think it would have been concerned that extending an additional £2,000 of
credit to Mrs H at that time was not responsible.
I say this as Mrs Hs reliance on her overdraft facility had clearly increased since June 2017.
In the months prior to the first limit increase she was consistently using her overdraft for the
remainder of the month from around a week after her pay day, so I would say she was
persistently reliant on that credit. She was no longer using the facility for an overdrafts
intended purpose. And her overdraft balance was growing, it was typically around three
times higher than in June 2017. So I think it would have been reasonable for Lloyds to
conclude that Mrs H was having problems managing her money. It was therefore not a fair
lending decision to increase her credit line.
Mrs Hs finances had not recovered and stabilised by April 2019 at the time of the second
increase so my findings are the same about that lending decision.
I note Lloyds comment that Mrs H asked for the limit increases but that does not change its
obligation to lend responsibly.
It follows I find Lloyds was wrong to increase Mrs Hs credit limit from £1,500.
I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly towards Mrs H in any other way. From what I have seen
once she made contact in July 2021 to tell Lloyds she had lost her job it placed her account
on hold and froze interest and charges. She then notified it a few months later that she had
included it in her debt relief order and it responded appropriately.
I then set out what Lloyds would need to do to put things right.
Mrs H accepted my provisional decision. Lloyds also said it would accept the ombudsmans 
recommendations but would need to amend the redress  in Mrs Hs favour - due to internal 
limitations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Mrs Hs complaint.
As neither party submitted any new evidence I have no reason to change the findings or 
outcome set out in my provisional decision.
Lloyds did flag that it cannot calculate the interest and charges applied above the limit of 
£1,500 after September 2018, and so it will refund all interest Mrs H has paid after this date. 
This is to Mrs Hs benefit and there is no need for me to comment further on this point.
 
In conclusion, I find Lloyds was wrong to increase Mrs Hs credit limit in both September 
2018 and April 2019.
Putting things right
Lloyds must:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mrs H has paid on balances above £1,500 from the
date of her limit increase in September 2018 onward*.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Lloyds should reduce the outstanding capital balance by
the amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Lloyds should ensure that
it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. If the balance has already
been written-off Lloyds must not attempt to collect it. But if step 2 leads to a positive
balance, the amount in question should be given back to Mrs H and 8% simple interest**
should be added to the surplus.
4. Once Mrs H has cleared any outstanding capital balance, any adverse information
recorded after September 2018 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit
file.
*Lloyds is opting to refund all interest Mrs H has paid after this date, not just on balances over £1,500. 
 
**HM Revenue & Customs may require Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. If it does, Lloyds must
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply
the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Hs complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman