DRN-2947940
The complaint
Mr M complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) forced him to 
remove rent guarantee cover from his landlords insurance policy as he was incorrectly told 
that they could no longer offer this type of cover.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
Mr M is unhappy because he says he was told by UKI upon the renewal of his 
landlords insurance that rent guarantee cover would no longer be available due to 
the government-imposed suspension of evictions during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr 
M says that during his renewal call with UKI, he was left with the impression that he 
had no choice but to remove this element of cover from his policy and could not 
renew it, whereas in actual fact it could have remained in place and on hold until the 
government lifted the suspension on repossession action. 
Having listened to Mr Ms renewal call with UKI on 30 March 2020, I dont agree that 
he was forced to remove the rent guarantee cover. Mr M says he was clearly told that 
he did not have a choice, but I cannot find any mention of this during the call. The 
UKI representative did not say that the cover had to be removed but explained that it 
would be suspended for at least three months while the government had placed a 
hold on repossessions, such that no claims could be made during this period. And 
although he did not explicitly state that the cover could remain in place as it was, 
neither did he say that there was no choice but to renew without the cover. So Im not 
persuaded he was coerced into removing the rent guarantee cover or was told that 
he would have to remove it, as the representative was simply setting out the situation 
as it was at the time with regards to claims.
Even if I were to agree that the UKI representative could have been clearer, Im not 
persuaded that this has caused any detriment to Mr M in any event, as he has not 
had to make a claim or seek an eviction of a tenant after removing the rent guarantee 
cover. He also has the option of taking the cover out again with UKI should he wish, 
so he has not been left in any worse off position. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But in the circumstances, I do not 
consider that UKI have done anything substantially wrong or that any compensation is 
warranted, so I will not be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman