DRN-3462488
The complaint
Miss B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include employees, contractors and others insofar as I hold 
Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in 2015.
For the year from October 2020, Miss B had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Admiral.
Unfortunately in about June 2021, the car was in an accident and sustained damage.
Miss B later complained to Admiral that the recovery truck had caused further damage. She 
also complained that - after repairs -  Admiral returned the car in a worse condition. 
By a final response dated late November 2021, Admiral upheld two of Miss Bs  points of 
complaint. One related to the need for rectification work to the bumper bar and rear spoiler. 
The other point related to some unwanted messages. Admiral said it was sending Miss B a 
cheque for £100.00 compensation. 
Miss B brought her complaint to us in December 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Admiral had made a fair settlement to the complaint.
Miss B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Admiral kept the car longer then needed, whilst losing it three times. 
Admirals final response was incorrect. She hadn't received her car at this time.
She has not received compensation. The £100.00 is her excess.
We should review both invoices from February 2022. Her garage can vouch for the 
invoices of what was broken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first raise a 
complaint with the regulated financial and wait up to eight weeks for a final response before 
we can investigate that complaint. 
From the policy schedule, I see that the policy covered damage to the car, subject to a policy 
excess. The amount of the excess depended on age and driving experience - but was at 
least £750.00. The policy didnt include breakdown cover. 
Miss B has said that while her car was stationary, a third party driver hit it in the rear. Miss B 
held the other driver responsible. From what Ive seen, it was an accident services company 
that arranged recovery of her vehicle.
Ive seen a photograph of the front spoiler of Miss Bs car in contact with the ramp of a 
recovery vehicle. But from what Ive seen, the accident services company - not acting on 
behalf of Admiral  had instructed the recovery company. So I dont hold Admiral responsible 
for the actions of the recovery company.
I havent seen enough evidence that Miss B complained to Admiral that it had kept her car 
too long and lost it. Admiral didnt record those points as part of her complaint when it wrote 
the final response. So I dont think I can look into that aspect of the complaint.
Admirals final response acknowledged that the repairs to the bumper had needed further 
remedial work  and that Miss B had received unwanted messages. 
At the time of the final response, Admiral said the car was available for Miss B to collect. 
From the final response, I find that the £100.00 was compensation and not related to the 
excess. I understand that Miss B collected the car in about December 2021.
Ive seen a suppliers invoice dated 23 February 2022 for parts including a battery. Ive also 
seen a garages invoice dated 25 February 2022 for work including replacing a gear selector 
cable and brake discs.  
But I dont think that I can look into any complaint that Admiral kept the car too long and 
caused deterioration, for example to battery and brake discs. And theres not enough 
evidence to link the gear selection problem to the accident or to any act or omission on the 
part of Admiral.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Miss B compensation for any 
financial loss or damage to the car
I accept that Miss B experienced pain after the accident and hasnt been well since. She has 
found the aftermath stressful. But I can only award compensation for extra distress and 
inconvenience caused by an incorrect act or omission about which Miss B had complained 
to Admiral. 
I have found that the repairs to the bumper had needed further remedial work  and that 
Miss B had received unwanted messages. But that was for a limited time. Overall Im 
satisfied with the final response from Admiral. I conclude that its cheque for £100.00 was fair 
and reasonable compensation for such distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman