DRN-3122002
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy JAJA Finance Ltd (JAJA) are pursuing him for a debt and have added 
charges and interest to the debt as well as recording adverse information on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr L had a credit card with a well-known provider. In June 2019 that provider announced the 
sale of its UK credit cards to JAJA Finance. They sent letters to their existing customers to 
make them aware that on or after 12 September 2020, their new provider would be JAJA.
When checking his bank account, Mr L noticed on 12 October 2020 a direct debit payment to 
JAJA for £53.80. He says he hadnt received the letter about the takeover and as he was 
unaware who JAJA was he contacted his bank. The bank was unable to offer any 
explanation, so he asked for the payment to be reversed as he was concerned it was a 
scam. He says he did this again when a further payment was taken on 1 November 2020.
JAJA sent statements to Mr L showing an outstanding balance on the account from 
December 2020. They also showed interest and charges accruing. However, Mr L says he 
didnt receive them.
In February 2021 after receiving a collections letter, Mr L contacted JAJA to find out who 
they were and also requested statements, so he could better understand the outstanding 
balance. Once received he asked for them to be sent again excluding the charges and 
interest as he didnt feel he should pay those fees.
On 16 March Mr L spoke to JAJA indicating he was confident the transaction for £53.80 was 
genuine. JAJA sent their final response letter to Mr L on 25 March 2021 and then sent a 
further letter on 30 April 2021 advising they had waived the interest and charges but required 
Mr L to clear the outstanding balance of £53.80. Once he had cleared the balance, they 
would also amend the credit file to show the balance had been paid in full.
Mr L had already referred his concerns to this service at the beginning of April 2021 and as 
he remained unhappy with JAJAs response our investigator reviewed the matter. The 
investigator felt that JAJA had been fair in waiving the interest and charges and as Mr L 
hadnt disputed the transaction, it was reasonable for them to ask him to clear the 
outstanding balance.
Mr L remained unhappy, he said he wasnt aware of the takeover and received no 
notification of the change. He said he received the first statements from JAJA in February 
2021. He doesnt feel he should pay the £53.80 as he has not been properly invoiced or 
informed. He feels he is due some compensation for the time and worry caused by JAJAs 
handling of the situation. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable Mr L made enquiries to the bank as he was, at the time, unsure who 
JAJA Finance were. And I can see why he asked for the payment to be reversed given the 
concerns he had. 
JAJA has provided a copy of the information the previous provider had sent to their 
customers and it is clear that JAJA Finance would be taking over the account and the direct 
debit would continue as it was. However, Mr L said he didnt receive this information and 
given the actions he took, the sequence of events and his testimony of what followed Im 
persuaded that he didnt have knowledge of the take over at that time. 
Following the takeover, statements were sent by JAJA to Mr L showing the outstanding 
balance. Mr L says he didnt receive any statements until he requested them in February 
2021.  Again, I have no reason to doubt this. And having seen the copies of the statements 
Ive also no reason to doubt they were sent.
Its unfortunate Mr L didnt receive the information and therefore didnt know who JAJA 
Finance were. However, once he was in touch with JAJA in February 2021 this would have 
become clearer. 
As the account fell into arrears JAJA added interest and charges in line with the terms and 
conditions. However, given that Mr L was unaware of the takeover and hadnt received the 
statements that followed, it was reasonable for JAJA to waive the interest and charges.
Mr L says he doesnt feel he should pay the £53.80 as he hasnt been invoiced properly. 
However, I note October 2020 statement shows the £53.80 that is owed so I think JAJA 
have invoiced him as they should have done. More recent statements show the interest and 
charges applied so this may be why Mr L remains concerned. However, JAJA have said 
theyve waived these fees and Mr L only needs to pay the outstanding amount of £53.80.
 
Once this is paid a final statement will be sent showing the balance is cleared. Given that 
Mr L hasnt disputed this transaction and appears to have received the goods purchased, it 
isnt unreasonable for JAJA to pursue this. They also said, once the outstanding balance is 
paid, they will close the account and amend Mr Ls credit file to reflect the payment was 
made. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as there was clearly some 
confusion and plausible explanation as to why the payments were missed.
If Mr L chooses not to pay the balance of £53.80, or further delays it, JAJA have said the 
account will start to accrue interest and charges in line with their terms and conditions. And 
this doesnt seem unfair given that they have tried to resolve the issue and the transaction 
hasnt been disputed.
Mr L is unhappy with the way JAJA handled things and feels he is due some compensation. 
However, whilst it isnt clear why Mr L didnt receive the takeover information, this was sent 
by the previous provider. JAJA have provided copies of statements they sent, and theyve 
apologised that Mr L didnt receive these. They also sent further statements free of charge.
Once Mr L got in touch, they looked to resolve things within a reasonable time. I understand 
Mr L had some difficulties getting through on the telephone. JAJA have explained that like 
many businesses they were impacted by the pandemic and this affected the service they 
provided. They have apologised, and in the circumstances, it was something that was 
difficult to control so Im not asking them to do anything more.
  Whilst I recognise Mr L was put to some inconvenience, it seems this stemmed from postal 
issues and the message regarding the takeover not being received. Which I dont think is fair 
to hold JAJA responsible for.
Overall, Im satisfied JAJA have treated Mr L fairly when waiving the interest and charges. 
They are within their rights to seek the outstanding payment as this purchase hasnt been 
disputed by Mr L. And theyve been reasonable in offering to remove adverse credit 
information in relation to the missed payment once the balance is cleared.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right JAJA Finance Ltd should:
 
waive the interest and charges to date and until 29 January 2022. If Mr L hasnt paid 
the balance of £53.80 by this date JAJA are within their rights to add interest and 
charges in line with their terms and conditions.
remove adverse credit information in relation to the missed payments during this 
time, once the balance has been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman