DRN-2491599
The complaint
Miss D complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by First Rand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality. She 
wants a partial refund of the monthly payments she made.  
What happened
Miss D tells us that she acquired the vehicle in May 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as AC 
From May 2019 she says she reported a number of faults with the vehicle. This included the 
vehicle pulling and dragging. She says that when she returned to the dealers it didnt identify 
a fault. Since then she says the vehicles been seen by the manufacturer, a business Ill call 
H. She states that H replaced the engine due to a manufacturing fault. Miss D says that 
even after this had been done, she reported a further coolant leak. She states that by this 
time shed lost faith in the vehicle and sold it back to the original dealers in October 2020.
MotoNovo told us that as Miss D hadnt supplied an independent report, there was no 
information to show the vehicle hadnt been of satisfactory quality when supplied to her.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the vehicle 
hadnt been of satisfactory quality when supplied. And that as H had replaced the complete 
engine under warranty when the vehicle had covered only around 13,000 miles, that was 
sufficient to show it wasnt durable. She recommended that MotoNovo paid Miss D £350 
compensation for the inconvenience of having to return the vehicle for repairs on numerous 
occasions.
Neither Miss D nor MotoNovo agreed with this outcome. Miss D felt it didnt reflect the 
inconvenience or the extra fuel costs of the courtesy vehicles shed had to use. MotoNovo 
maintained there was insufficient information to show the vehicle had faults when supplied. 
As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Miss D experienced such a disappointment with this vehicle. As it was almost 
new when supplied to her with only 54 miles recorded on the odometer, Im sure she looked 
forward to an extensive period of trouble free motoring.
Miss Ds hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of previous use and durability. As the vehicle was almost new when supplied Id expect it to 
be almost perfect and free from even minor defects.
Amongst the information with which Ive been supplied is a job card and invoice from AC 
dated 20 May 2020. This records that Miss D was complaining about the faults with pulling 
and dragging and that the engine light came on intermittently. AC reports it carried out a 
service and health check. And that it road tested the vehicle but found no faults.
Miss D wasnt happy with this and eventually the vehicle was seen by Hs agent. Ive seen 
an email from this agent date 21 August 2020 in which its stated that over time it found the 
engine warping. And that after consulting with Hs technical team it was instructed to replace 
the engine.
Ive also seen a desktop inspection report from a business Ill call AE dated 3 September 
2020. This was based on an examination of the old engine parts. And whilst it found that 
there was distortion between the engine block and cylinder head, it wasnt able to identify 
when this occurred or where liability would rest.
MotoNovo has insisted that as Miss D hasnt supplied an independent report showing the 
vehicle had faults at the time of supply, theres nothing to show the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that time. But in my opinion, this is to misunderstand the application of 
the concept of durability to the CRA.
In the circumstances of this complaint, the question that needs to be asked is would a 
reasonable person consider the vehicle to be of satisfactory quality when the engine 
required replacing before 14,000 miles had been covered. As the replacement was covered 
by warranty theres no information to show Miss D had any responsibility for the failure. And 
its reasonable to infer that H wouldnt have replaced the engine if it hadnt been due to a 
manufacturing defect. I find that the reasonable person would inevitably conclude that the 
vehicle failed to be sufficiently durable.
Where the short term right to reject (which usually has to be exercised within 30 days of 
supply) doesnt apply the dealer / supplier has one chance to repair any defects that cause 
the vehicle not to conform to contract.
Here Miss D has reported concerns with the vehicle at various times to both AC and 
MotoNovo. This included in May 2020 when AC didnt identify any faults with the vehicle. 
And MotoNovos complaint notes indicate that she tried to reject the vehicle on 10 August 
2020 when she discovered the vehicle needed a replacement engine.
Given that it should have been clear that there were serious faults which were confirmed by 
H, I think that MotoNovo shouldve accepted the rejection of the vehicle. And not insisted 
upon a further report.
Whilst I understand Miss Ds wish to have some of the monthly repayments refunded, the 
CRA also contains provisions which says that MotoNovo would be entitled to payment for 
fair use of the vehicle. And the position is further complicated by Miss D now having sold the 
vehicle back to the dealers. Although I fully appreciate why she did so.Its my understanding that Miss D was provided with a courtesy vehicle during the time her 
own vehicle was unavailable. Our usual approach would only be to refund monthly payments 
if no adequate replacement vehicle had been provided. And whilst I accept a replacement 
isnt ideal it did at least keep her mobile. Ive also noted what Miss D has to say about 
increased fuel costs. But in the absence of an exact breakdown of this aspect Im not able to 
calculate a precise figure. I feel the overall figure of compensation recommended by our 
investigator would in any event be sufficient to cover this.
Miss D has now sold the vehicle and settled the finance. I understand the part-exchange 
price she obtained was sufficient to settle the outstanding balance without her needing to 
make any additional payments. In line with our usual approach the monthly payments are 
typically considered to represent the cost of fair use.  And as there was no initial deposit paid 
at the time of supply, I see no reason to depart from that approach.
In summary, Im of the opinion that beyond any reasonable doubt the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Theres no need for an independent report to 
separately confirm this. Such a major component as an engine failing within such a short 
period of use is compelling evidence  in the absence of proof of misuse or accident  that 
there was a manufacturing fault leading to a lack of durability.
Miss D has clearly experienced inconvenience from the interrupted use of her own vehicle 
as well as having to return it for repairs. Im of the opinion that £350  which is within the 
range of awards we would consider moderate - is fair and reasonable. Im upholding this 
complaint.  
Putting things right
MotoNovo should pay £350 to Miss D for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
repeated faults with the vehicle. Together with the resultant loss of enjoyment and impaired 
use of her chosen vehicle.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance to take the action Ive 
stipulated in the preceding section.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman