DRN-2676668
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy as if it hadn't existed (voidance).
In bringing this complaint Mr Ms been helped by professional representatives. But, for ease 
of reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ms.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M was abroad when his car was damaged in an accident. It was taken to a garage who 
provided a repair estimate in the region of €29,270. Advantage said Mr Ms car was beyond 
economical repair and told him he could tell the garage abroad it could dispose of the 
salvage. After Mr M had done so Advantage found out he had some penalty points on his 
licence he hadn't told Advantage about when he renewed his policy. It said that if hed told it 
about those penalty points then it wouldn't have offered to renew his policy. It voided the 
policy and refused to pay his claim.
Mr M complained. Advantage acknowledged it shouldnt have told him to scrap the car 
before it had made sure that his claim was payable. It said the salvage value of the car was 
£575, and it offered to pay that amount to him. It also offered him £500 compensation for the 
impact of its mistake. Mr M didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us.
My first provisional decision
In November 2020 I issued a provisional decision. 
In summary I said that Mr M should have told Advantage about the penalty points before his 
policy renewed. And if hed done so Advantage wouldn't have offered to renew the policy. I 
said that Mr Ms mistake in not telling Advantage about the penalty points amounts to whats 
known in the insurance industry as making a misrepresentation. And theres specific 
legislation, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), 
which sets out what an insurer may do where a consumers made a misrepresentation. And 
in circumstances where the insurer wouldn't have offered the policy but for that 
misrepresentation then CIDRA allows it to void it and refuse to pay any claim. Thats what 
Advantage had done and I thought that was fair. So I said I didn't think it had breached its 
contract with Mr M.
Mr M had also argued that he wouldn't have had his car scrapped if Advantage had told him 
it wasn't going to pay his claim. Instead he would have had it repaired. So he said it wasn't 
fair for Advantage to cancel the policy and refuse his claim and that it was estopped from 
doing so. I said my understanding was that estoppel was a legal principle which prevents a 
party to a contract from reversing or changing their position or decision if the other party to 
the contract has relied on that position/decision to their detriment. I said that my role is to 
determine complaints based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the particular complaint. And we aren't a legal service which decides cases purely on the 
basis of the law. So my decision isnt bound by legal principles like estoppel, although I 
consider such principles when deciding whats a fair and reasonable outcome to the 
complaint.
However, I explained that I didn't think estoppel applied to Mr Ms circumstances. That's 
because Mr Ms car was a category B total loss, which meant it couldn't ever be repaired 
and put back on the road. So I didn't think the fact that Advantage had told Mr M he could 
instruct the foreign garage to dispose of the salvage had affected the actions he could have 
taken as he would always have had to have the car scrapped.  
Similarly, I said I didn't think Mr M was out of pocket because of Advantages actions. Mr M 
said he had to pay the garage for disposing of his car. But I noted the invoice hed provided 
didn't refer to costs for disposing of the car but referred to other things like storage charges 
and a fee for estimating repair costs. But even if it had I said that Mr M was always going to 
have to have his car scrapped. So he would either have had to incur the costs for doing that 
abroad or return the car to the UK in order to do so, which would have incurred significant 
additional costs. And those would almost certainly have been at least equivalent to the sum 
the garage abroad charged him. So I don't think hes out of pocket as a result. And I noted 
Advantage had acknowledged that it shouldnt have told Mr M to tell the garage to scrap his 
car until it had completed its investigation into the claim. And to address the impact of that it 
had offered Mr M £500 compensation together with £575 to represent the sum he likely 
would have received if hed scrapped his car in the UK. I said I thought that was fair. 
I also addressed Mr Ms complaint that he hadn't retrieved some personal possessions from 
the car before it was scrapped. I said I'd seen no evidence Advantage was aware Mr M had 
left possessions in the car. And he could have retrieved his possessions from the car before 
he returned to the UK. Or he could have asked the garage to remove those items when he 
told it to scrap the car. And it was Mr M himself, rather than Advantage, who had 
communicated with the foreign garage. So I didn't think it was Advantage's fault that Mr M 
had left possessions in the car when he told the garage to scrap it.
In reply to my first provisional decision Mr M told me that at the time his policy renewed in 
2019 he wasn't aware of the 2018 speeding points. So he said he didn't make a 
misrepresentation in not telling Advantage about those. He asked some questions about 
Advantages underwriting criteria. He also repeated that he felt Advantage was in breach of 
contract because it had offered to settle his claim for the total loss of his car. An offer hed 
accepted and Advantage had told him it would settle. He said Advantages offer, valid 
consideration and his acceptance of the offer created a legally binding contract.
My second provisional decision 
On 9 February 2021 I issued another provisional decision. For ease Ive copied the relevant 
extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said he only learned about his 2018 speeding offence from a court letter, which he's 
shown to us, posted only days before his policy renewed in January 2019. He said that at 
the time of his renewal he hadn't received that letter and wasn't aware of those points. And 
in those circumstances he says he didn't make a misrepresentation.
The letter Mr Ms provided is a notification that the court had ordered Mr Ms licence to be 
endorsed with the penalty points. And I'm aware that prior to making that order Mr M would 
have received two letters about the speeding event. The first would have asked him who was driving the car at the time of the offence. It seems that Mr M received and replied to this 
letter to say that it was him that was driving. (If he hadnt replied to it its possible he would 
have been prosecuted for failing to do so, which is a different offence to the speeding points 
he eventually received.) He would also have received a notice telling him of the offence and 
giving him the opportunity to challenge it in court. Mr M hasn't said that he chose to 
challenge the speeding conviction. So I think he knew that the points were pending, even if 
he hadn't received the court letter before his policy renewed.
Mr Ms policy requires him to tell Advantage about any prosecutions prior to renewing his 
policy. It also says that if he didn't do that Advantage may cancel his policy. But Mr M didn't 
tell Advantage of the pending points prior to his policy renewing nor did he tell it about the 
points after he received the court letter. And I think he should have done so.
Further, in February 2019 Mr M changed the car on his policy. And Advantage sent Mr M 
new policy documents with the updated details. At that time it asked him to check those and 
to tell it if anything was incorrect. The revised documents again only referred to Mr Ms 
earlier speeding points and didn't refer to the points the court had endorsed his licence with 
the previous month. And, by that date I think Mr M would have known that hed received 
those extra points on his licence. So he should have told Advantage about the points at that 
stage but he didn't do so.
CIDRA says that a consumers failure to confirm or amend details previously given to an 
insurer is capable of being a misrepresentation. So, even if Mr M didn't make a 
misrepresentation when his policy renewed in January 2019, I think he made a 
misrepresentation after he changed his car in February 2019 by not telling Advantage about 
the points hed recently received. And Advantage has told me that if Mr M had told it about 
those points it wouldn't have offered cover or continued to cover him.
I understand Mr M suffered a bereavement shortly before his policy renewed. And as a result 
that was a very difficult and painful time for him and his family. I accept that was the case. 
But Advantage hasn't said Mr M deliberately or recklessly made a misrepresentation, but 
rather that his error in not telling it about the speeding offence or the penalty points was 
simply a mistake. However, that doesn't change the outcome for Mr M.
Advantage has shown us evidence that if it had known about the points prior to the policy 
renewing or varying it then it wouldn't have offered Mr M the policy. And thats the case 
regardless of the fact that his earlier points had already come off his licence and would be 
more than five years old before the policy year ended. Thats because Advantage looks at 
the risk a consumer poses at the date the policy begins or is varied and doesn't adjust for 
whats likely to happen later in the policy year.
So its not the case that Advantage might have charged Mr M a higher premium or offered a 
policy on different terms had Mr M told it about the points. It simply wouldn't have offered to 
renew the policy. And that's the case regardless of the fact that his other points had already 
come off his licence or would be more than five years old in around nine months, because, 
at the time that the policy renewed or was varied, he didn't meet Advantage's underwriting 
criteria. And in those circumstances I think it was reasonable that Advantage voided his 
policy.
Mr Ms said he was surprised, when looking for insurance recently through a comparison 
website, that Advantage offered him a policy, even though hed declared his 2018 points and 
Advantages voidance of his policy. So he's asked to see Advantages underwriting criteria, 
the inference being that he thinks it might have misapplied those in 2019. But an insurers 
underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive information. And we accepted that information 
in confidence, so I don't intend to share it with Mr M. But it might help if I explain that Mr Ms situation has changed since his policy renewed in 2019. And those changes have affected 
Advantages calculation of the risk Mr M poses as a potential policyholder now. For example 
Advantage would no longer need to consider the earlier points that Mr M had on his licence, 
because they are now more than five years old. So the fact Advantage offered Mr M a policy 
recently doesn't mean it would have offered him the policy in 2019.
Mr Ms also said that after he accepted Advantages offer to settle his claim, Advantage had 
entered into a legally binding contract with him. As I said in my provisional decision, while Ill 
take the law into account my role isnt to determine a complaint such as this purely on the 
basis of the law. So I don't intend to make any finding on whether or not, in initially offering to 
settle the claim, Advantage entered into a legally binding contract. Instead I need to decide 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this particular 
complaint. I agree that when it told Mr M it would settle his claim it should have told him that 
this would be subject to it confirming he was covered. But as Ive said above if Mr M hadn't 
made a misrepresentation Advantage wouldn't have covered him at the time of the accident. 
And I think its offer to settle Mr Ms claim was based on an error that there was no issue with 
the cover. And but for that error I don't think Advantage would have offered to settle the 
claim. I don't think it would be reasonable to expect Advantage to be stuck with the 
consequences of that error. It follows that I'm not going to instruct Advantage to settle Mr Ms 
claim.
Developments
Mr M recognised he made a mistake in not telling Advantage about his penalty points. But 
he didn't think the £500 compensation Advantage had offered reflected his levels of distress 
and inconvenience arising from its handling of his claim. He repeated that Advantages 
actions caused him to lose property that hed left in the car. He also asked for evidence from 
Advantage as to how it had arrived at its figure for the salvage value of the car so he could 
see if that was reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr M doesn't believe that Advantage has done enough to compensate him for its errors. I 
can understand that Mr M would have found it distressing to learn that Advantage was 
refusing to pay his claim particularly after it had indicated it was likely to settle it. Advantage 
has acknowledged that it should have ensured it had completed its investigation into the 
claim before telling Mr M that he could scrap his car. But, as I said in my first provisional 
decision, I think the £500 compensation it offered for the impact of that mistake is 
reasonable in the circumstances, as it's in line with awards we make in cases of similar 
seriousness. 
I understand the matter has now been ongoing for a considerable period. But I've noted that 
Advantage was relatively quick to acknowledge its mistakes and to make an offer of 
compensation. Mr M refused that offer but that was his choice. So I dont think Advantage 
needs to compensate Mr M further because of the time period involved. 
Mr Ms also repeated that he lost possessions which he left in the car when it was scrapped. 
But as I said in my first provisional decision it was Mr M himself who dealt with the garage 
directly. And Advantage wasn't in any way responsible for what happened to any possessions left in the car. So I don't think it needs to compensate Mr M if he lost 
possessions as a result.
Further, Mr M asked for Advantage to provide evidence of how it had calculated the salvage 
value. This isnt a request Mr M has made previously. So its something he might wish to put 
to Advantage directly. But, when we were looking into his complaint Advantage showed us 
evidence of how it had applied its matrix for how much it could have expected to receive 
had it sold the salvage, which was £575. And as that's the sum it offered to Mr M I think its 
reasonable in the circumstances. So I'm not going to instruct Advantage to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman