DRN-3487478
The complaint
Mr H, through a representative, says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £2,000 that Lendable provided to
Mr H on 23 June 2021. The monthly repayments were £113.27 and the total repayable was
£2,740.
Mr H says Lendable failed to conduct proportionate checks before lending to him and he is 
now in a lot of debt. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought Lendable shouldnt have given the
loan. 
Neither party responded to this assessment; the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Hs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Mr H would 
be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this meant that
the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr H 
undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Lendable has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr H. It asked for his monthly income and completed an income verification check with 
a third-party. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit history and his existing 
credit commitments. I cant see it asked about the purpose of the loan. Based on these 
checks Lendable thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the stage of the lending relationship and as 
the monthly repayment was less than 5% of Mr Hs verified income. But I dont think the 
lender made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
When Mr H applied for this loan Lendable could see from its credit check that he had 
£19,870 of outstanding debt. It acknowledges that by giving Mr H this loan he would 
need to spend around 36% of his income on his ongoing credit commitments. I would argue 
the amount should be around higher if a sustainable repayment calculation of 5% of balance 
was made on at least his revolving debt, if not on his available limit. But that aside, I think 
Lendable ought to already have realised there was a risk Mr H would not be able to repay 
this loan without suffering adverse financial consequences. And to meet its regulatory 
obligations it needed to consider this, not just the pounds and pence affordability.
Lendable points out that Mr H was managing his existing credit well, but it needed to be sure 
he could continue to do so over the term of this loan. And there were already potential early 
indicators of pressure as two of his accounts had been in early arrears recently and he was 
using credit to access cash. Lendable was required to think about the likely impact of its 
lending on Mr H over the term of the loan  not just his current position, so this does not 
change my conclusion.
It follows I think Lendable was wrong to give this loan to Mr H and Lendable needs to put
things right.
Ive also thought about whether Lendable acted unfairly in some other way and I havent
seen any evidence that it did.Putting things right - what Lendable needs to do
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital amount that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not
have been provided to him so Lendable needs to put that right.
It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Hs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to take off tax from this interest. Lendable must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint. Lendable Ltd must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman