DRN-4484013
The complaint
T complains that TIDE PLATFORM LTD trading as TIDE wont refund a £515.73 payment 
debited from its account which it says it didnt authorise. T is also unhappy with how TIDE 
dealt with the matter, even after, it says, it upgraded its account so it could use TIDEs phone 
service. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, T has explained that in July 2022 a payment of £515.73 was debited 
from its TIDE account which it says it didnt authorise. T reported this to TIDE. But ultimately, 
whilst TIDE offered T £25 compensation for service issues, it didnt refund T the £515.73 
payment. T remained dissatisfied and referred its complaint about TIDE to us. As our 
Investigator here couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
I sent T and TIDE my provisional decision earlier this month explaining what I was minded to 
conclude and why. T replied to say it would be happy to accept my provisional decision. 
TIDE replied with no further comments or information.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as explained in 
my provisional decision. Ive explained why again below.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 are relevant to this case. In short, banks will 
generally be liable for unauthorised payments; and a payment out of someones account can 
only be authorised if the payer has consented to it. So, its not enough for TIDE to show how 
the disputed payment was authenticated. To decide that T authorised the payment, Id also 
need to be persuaded that T most likely consented to the payment.
Information provided by TIDE suggests the disputed payment was made to a merchant Ill 
call P. It appears the payment was made to Ps PayPal account. T has explained that P is 
one of its regular wholesalers, so its made lots of payments to P both before and after the 
disputed transaction. But T says it didnt authorise this particular payment to P; and when it 
noticed it, it questioned P which said it hadnt received it; and T has provided screenshots of 
messages it says are between it and P at the time which show this. In summary then: TIDE 
says the payment was to P; T says P said it didnt receive it; and T says it didnt authorise it.
In terms of authentication, TIDE says: it was an e-commerce offline transaction; neither 
cardholder nor card were present; this indicates the payment was either made by phone or 
via the merchants website; and that no additional verification was triggered such as 3DS or 
OTP as the transaction was made offline. In other words, the only information needed to 
authenticate the payment were the card details, which are commonly given out to make 
everyday payments online for example, and presumably these would be details P already 
held. 
So, turning to consider consent, TIDE says there were no failed transactions or 
unrecognised payment attempts so the payment isnt indicative of fraud from what its seeing 
when it comes to fraud or compromised cards. But I think TIDE has overlooked the point that 
third-party fraud isnt the only way this payment could have been made without Ts consent. 
For example, someone acting as P could have mistakenly taken the payment. Its possible 
the payment might be held in a holding account somewhere, which would explain why P 
appears to have claimed to have not received the payment. Im not saying this is definitely 
what happened; unfortunately TIDE didnt look into this. But this illustrates why the question 
of whether or not T most likely consented to the payment does not depend on third-party 
fraud. 
I also dont find what TIDE says about T not following its advice to cancel its card promptly 
persuasive. I understand TIDE is suggesting that given by then it had told T the payment it 
claims was unauthorised was taken by P, youd think T would have followed the advice to 
cancel its card promptly unless it thought it was actually, after all, most likely its own mistake 
or oversight (and that, actually, P probably had taken the payment with Ts consent). Again, 
though, I think TIDE has overlooked the point that P was one of Ts regular wholesalers 
which it had dealt with previously many times without issue; and given P appeared to be 
saying it hadnt received the payment, it probably would have looked more like some sort of 
banking error rather than fraud, so I think it would be understandable if T didnt feel the 
immediate need to cancel its card and incur unnecessary inconvenience in this way; at a 
time when T, quite reasonably, would have expected TIDE to be able to work out the 
banking error and get its money back. 
Unfortunately TIDE hasnt then, in my view, lived up to what I think were reasonable 
expectations. Instead, it seems to me, that TIDE has, in essence, simply pointed to T having 
paid P before, and its made other unwarranted assumptions not in Ts favour (for example, 
by questioning, without persuasive grounds in my view  especially in light of TIDE not 
investigating matters essentially at all  the reliability of its evidence including the 
screenshots it says are messages with P); and ultimately its then failed to refund the 
transaction, either as unauthorised or through means of chargeback, in circumstances 
where, in my view, there isnt sufficiently persuasive evidence that T consented to the 
payment. I do not think it was reasonable for TIDE to assume T authorised the payment just 
because it had paid P before and to therefore not look into things further. Neither would this 
particular payment have looked, realistically, like something T and P would be able to 
resolve between themselves, given it appeared theyd already tried but neither of them 
seemed to have recognised the payment. 
Now I understand TIDE says its not obliged to proceed with chargeback and its current 
process is that, if it raises a dispute, its finance partner decides whether or not to raise a 
chargeback  so, it says, the decision to raise a chargeback doesnt directly lie with TIDE. 
However, TIDE has a responsibility to its customer, and how it decides operationally to fulfil 
that is a matter for TIDE. But I dont think it can sidestep its responsibilities by simply 
appearing to outsource certain decisions. And whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I 
generally consider it to be good practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable 
chance of it succeeding. 
Bearing in mind T was telling TIDE it didnt authorise the transaction and that P was claiming 
not to have received the payment (but TIDE was apparently sure P had received it), I cant 
see how pursuing a chargeback wouldnt have been eminently reasonable. Weve seen no 
evidence P was entitled to the payment or that T received anything in return for it, so it seems most likely that had TIDE pursued a chargeback the payment would have been 
recovered. 
But, in any event, my decision here doesnt turn on chargeback. TIDE is not entitled to debit 
this transaction from Ts account unless it was authorised. To decide that T authorised the 
payment, I need to be persuaded that T most likely consented to the payment. And in this 
case, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded T did consent to it. This means I 
think TIDE should refund to T the disputed payment of £515.73. TIDE should also pay T 
interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from 13 July 2022 to the date of 
settlement.
It's common ground that the service provided by TIDE here has not been the best. TIDE 
offered T £25 compensation for this, but I think this is too low and that TIDE should instead 
pay T £100 compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct TIDE PLATFORM LTD 
trading as TIDE to pay T:
£515.73; plus
interest on this amount from 13 July 2022 to the date of settlement calculated at 8% 
simple per year (if TIDE deducts tax from this interest, it should provide T with the 
appropriate tax deduction certificate); plus
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman