DRN-2734368
The complaint
Ms F complains PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
 Ms F took one loan with Mr Lender on 21 June 2011. The loan (£350) was arranged over 
34 days with a single repayment due of £462. 
Ms F has had some problems repaying the loan and when the complaint was referred to this 
service an outstanding balance remained.
 
Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint and didnt think it was wrong for Mr Lender to have 
lent the loan. He felt there wasnt enough information to suggest the loan was unsustainable, 
or that Mr Lender needed to verify Ms Fs information.  
Ms F didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. Ms F says that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
lent as she had vast amounts of debts outstanding with other creditors and it didnt complete 
proportionate checks. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Ms F could afford to pay back the amount 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Ms Fs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms F. These factors include:
Ms F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms F.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms F could sustainably repay her loan  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms F was able to repay 
her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Fs complaint.
Before I begin, Im sorry to hear about the finance and personal difficulties Ms F has had 
since 2011. I do hope, that things are better for her now.   
The loan of £350 was due to be repaid through one instalment of £462 in the month after it 
had been lent. Ms F declared an income of £1,933 and so the repayment was approaching a 
fifth of her take home pay. 
Mr Lender also carried out a credit check before it lent but only a summary is now available, 
and this didnt seem to reveal any significant adverse information to indicate that further 
checks ought to have been completed. But the original raw data, is no longer available due 
to the passage of time since the loan was approved, I dont consider this to be 
unreasonable. 
Overall, considering the level of lending and what Mr Lender knew about Ms Fs 
circumstances, I think it should also have asked Ms F about her regular expenditure to see if 
repayment of the loan was affordable and sustainable. Mr Lender may have done this, but 
due to the passage of time, this information is no longer available. 
Although Mr Lender hasnt shown that it did complete what I think would have been 
proportionate checks, Ive not seen anything in the information provided to show that     Ms 
Fs expenses would most likely have shown that the loan shouldnt have been granted. Ms F 
hasnt been able to provide evidence (for example, through her bank statements) of her 
expenses at the time of lending.
I can see that Ms F has provided a list of creditors compiled in 2015, but this information 
doesnt confirm her regular expenses in June 2011and I cant be sure that these were the 
same or similar at the time this loan was approved.
So, like the adjudicator, Ive not seen enough to say that Mr Lenders checks wouldve 
highlighted that to it that either the loan was unaffordable or that it shouldve undertaken 
further, more in-depth checks. I also dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on 
what Mr Lender knew about Ms F, that meant Mr Lender needed to ask her about other 
short-term lending or to complete a full review of Ms Fs financial situation which mightve 
revealed that Ms F may have been having financial difficulties at the time. 
Looking at all this together, I agree with the adjudicator that I dont think that Mr Lender was 
wrong to lend Ms Fs loan. 
I understand that Mr Lender has agreed an affordable repayment plan with Ms F since 
March 2016. I think this seemed a reasonable response to Ms Fs repayment difficulties. But, 
moving forward, I would remind Mr Lender that it should treat Ms F fairly with repayment of 
the outstanding balance, and consider all options available to it, now that Ive completed the 
consideration of the complaint. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms F, but I hope my explanation 
goes someway to clarifying why I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman