DRN-3556516
The complaint
Mrs S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC provided a poor service when she tried to withdraw 
cash from her current account in a branch. 
What happened
Mrs S wanted to withdraw over £1,000 in cash. When she arrived at the branch the counter 
had already closed for the day. So she was directed to a machine. Mrs S attempted the 
transaction twice but it failed. 
Staff tried to investigate what the problem was, including asking Mrs S to attempt other 
transactions. In the end, branch staff discovered the attempted transactions had been 
flagged as possible fraud and made arrangements to manually carry out the withdrawal for 
Mrs S. 
Mrs S said that all of this meant she spent over an hour in the branch and missed an 
appointment. She felt members of staff were rude, in particular she said they refused to get a 
manager initially and didnt take into account her mental health. 
Barclays responded to the complaint to say theyd followed the correct procedure by 
directing Mrs S to use a machine in the first instance as shed arrived after the counter had 
closed for the day. And that asking her to attempt the transaction more than once was also 
correct, to rule out problems with the particular machine. Barclays didnt agree Mrs S had 
received poor service. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator considered what had happened 
and said, in summary, he felt Mrs S had been treated fairly. He said this because Barclays 
had tried to help Mrs S make her withdrawal from the machine and then, when this wasnt 
successful, arranged for the cash to be withdrawn from the counter  even though it was 
closed.
 
Mrs S didnt agree with the Investigator. She said she felt shed been discriminated against 
by the first member of staff she dealt with because she was a woman. Our Investigator 
asked Barclays about this. Barclays said all staff receive diversity and inclusion training and 
they didnt think Mrs S had been treated unfairly during her visit to the branch. Our 
Investigator explained this to Mrs S and said he didnt think this changed the overall outcome 
of her complaint. 
Mrs S still didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says she arrived at the branch at about 3:30pm. Counter services at the branch in 
question close at 2pm, so Im satisfied Barclays didnt make a mistake by telling Mrs S shed 
need to make her withdrawal using one of their machines inside the branch as the counter 
was closed for the day. 
Mrs S attempted the withdrawal twice but it was unsuccessful. Initially, branch staff asked 
Mrs S to try the transaction again using a different machine. This is to rule out issues with 
the machine itself  so I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask Mrs S to try this 
in order to help her. 
Mrs S is unhappy that when she asked to speak to a manager the branch staff refused. 
Barclays has told us branch staff are trained to deal with branch queries so they wouldnt 
expect a manager to be required for something like this. So I dont think it was unreasonable 
for the branch staff to initially try and assist Mrs S themselves. Eventually a manager did 
become involved, after it was clear Mrs S was becoming distressed. 
The manager discovered Mrs S original attempts had been blocked because of a fraud alert 
on her account and arranged for this to be lifted and the withdrawal Mrs S wanted was made 
shortly after this. So overall, I find Barclays took reasonable steps to help Mrs S and she was 
able to make the transaction she wanted to eventually. 
Mrs S says Barclays failed to notice that her mental health was being affected by what was 
happening in the branch. But as Ive said, I think all the steps Barclays took to help Mrs S 
were reasonable in order to assist her. So while Im sorry Mrs S found the situation so 
distressing  on balance - I dont think this was because Barclays did something wrong. And 
as Ive said, the branch manager said he became involved after seeing how distressed she 
was. So I think Barclays did notice how Mrs S was being affected and made every effort to 
help her. 
Mrs S says she was discriminated against because she is a woman. She says she thinks 
this because of some assumptions shes made about the member of staff she spoke to. Ive 
thought carefully about Mrs S concerns. But everything Ive seen, including Mrs S own 
testimony, suggests that Barclays was trying to help Mrs S make her transaction  as they 
would any other customer. I know she wont agree with me on that, but Im satisfied they 
were and in the end, did what was needed so she could make her transaction. 
Mrs S felt we should obtain CCTV footage from the branch but I dont think this is necessary. 
I say this because it likely wouldnt contain sound  so we wouldnt be able to hear what was 
said. And theres no dispute Mrs S had a problem making her transaction in the branch and 
was there for some time talking to staff to sort things out. So I dont think CCTV would make 
a difference to the overall outcome of her complaint. 
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays has not treated Mrs S unfairly so I dont require them to pay 
her compensation as shes asked. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman