The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC repeatedly told him it could cash a very large 
cheque, in a foreign currency, but then later returned it unpaid, and said it couldnt cash it 
after all. 
What happened
Mr P was selling a property overseas. He checked with Barclays that it would accept a 
cheque in that countrys currency, and it said it would. But then it sent the cheque back. He 
said he was left with a cheque worth a very large sum of money which he couldnt cash. 
Barclays accepted that it had given Mr P some incorrect advice about accepting this cheque. 
It said it was sorry about this. It had now returned the cheque, and said that the issuing bank 
should be able to arrange an alternative way to let him have the money from the sale. It paid 
him £200 for the stress all this had caused him. 
The issuing bank wasn't able to arrange to pay Mr P all the money. He's currently receiving 
small instalments, sent at irregular intervals. Mr P was very unhappy. He wanted the money 
from his sale. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said shed seen evidence 
that Barclays couldnt accept cheques from the country where Mr P sold his house. She said 
we couldnt make Barclays accept the cheque. She was sorry about what had happened, but 
she thought that Mr P would still be in the same situation now, even if Barclays had given 
him the correct advice. The money would still be in a foreign currency. She didnt think this 
was Barclays fault. So she couldn't fairly ask Barclays to do any more. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said hed made an arrangement with Barclays to accept the cheque, 
and he thought it ought to do that. He said his lifetimes savings had disappeared because of 
Barclays mistake. 
Because our investigator and Mr P didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
DRN-1846612 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I wanted to find out whether Mr P had relied on what 
Barclays said about being able to accept his cheque, when he went ahead with the 
sale of his property. So I asked Mr P for some more information about that. 
Mr P sent us a considerable amount of further information about his property and the 
sale. He told us that it had been on the market for some time, and that at least one 
other property locally had been sold through a transaction in pounds sterling. 
However, he wasnt able to show that there was serious interest in his property from 
any buyer who could complete the transaction in a different currency, not the currency 
of that country, at the time his property sold. And included in the emails he sent was 
one from the intended buyer. He was threatening legal action if the sale of the property 
didnt complete. That legal action was intended to force the sale to go through, and to 
stop any other sale in the meantime. 
I think its important to note that this email, telling Mr P he has to go ahead with the 
existing sale, was dated 24 September 2019. Thats before Mr P spoke to Barclays, 
and was told that he could cash a cheque made out in the currency of the country 
where he sold the property. Further emails suggest the sale may actually have 
completed on 1 October 2019, again before Mr P spoke to Barclays.
Im not an expert in the law that governed this property sale. But it seems to me that 
Mr P didnt go ahead with this sale just because of what Barclays had told him about 
being able to cash his cheque and convert it easily into pounds sterling in his UK 
account. 
I think, on balance, that even if Mr P had been given the right advice by Barclays 
about problems he might experience getting this money exchanged into pounds 
sterling, its more likely that Mr P would still be in the same situation now, of having 
money in a foreign currency that cant easily be accessed here. Thats because I think 
its likely that Mr P would either have chosen to go ahead with this sale anyway, or that 
he wouldve been forced by legal action to do so. Or perhaps even that he wouldve 
found that his sale had already completed, before he spoke to Barclays.
For those reasons, I think even if Mr P had been given better advice from Barclays, it 
wouldnt have made any difference to the situation hes in now.
I know that Mr P is currently experiencing very poor health. Im very sorry to hear that. 
And I also know that hes finding it very difficult to access the money from this sale, 
which is needed to help him buy a new home that could better suit his current needs. 
But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think that its Barclays fault that this 
money isnt easily available to him. 
I do think it was unhelpful for Barclays to give wrong advice about being able to accept 
this cheque. But because Ive reached the view that the overall position Mr P is in, isnt 
Barclays fault, I also think that, in paying him £200 for the additional stress its wrong 
advice has caused him, Barclays has done enough to make up for what it did wrong. 
And that means that, although I know Mr P will be very disappointed, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays said it had nothing to add. Mr P sent a detailed reply, disagreeing with what Id 
said.                                                        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Mr P said hed phoned Barclays again, and it was still giving incorrect advice about whether 
it could take cheques in the same currency as his. And he said that other people were also 
having difficulties with Barclays, not related to this complaint. 
Mr P said Barclays hadnt told him it had stopped taking cheques in this currency. And hed 
returned the cheque to the issuing bank himself.  He didnt think Barclays wouldve lost 
anything by exchanging the money. 
Mr P said he had spoken to Barclays before going ahead. He said Barclays had confirmed it 
would take this cheque over the phone on 20 June 2019. And he sent us a phone bill with a 
call to Barclays on 20 June 2019, at 12.41. 
Mr P said he was prepared to take legal action on this issue. 
I know Mr P has told us that lots of other people are having difficulties with Barclays. But I 
can only look at whats happened in his case.
Mr P also sent us more information about his ill health, and explained that his wife was now 
unwell too. Im very sorry to hear that, and I understand how important this issue is to him. 
But I can still only instruct Barclays to help him if it would be fair and reasonable for me to do 
so.
Ive listened to the call that Mr P sent us. So Im aware that Barclays is still saying it can 
accept cheques in this currency. That is obviously very disappointing, but it doesnt directly 
affect this case. What I need to know is if Barclays had given any commitment to accept this 
cheque before Mr P sold his house.
Mr P said it had, on 20 June. So I asked Barclays to send this call to our service. Its now 
supplied a summary transcript, and shown us the system notes made at the time. There was 
no mention on this call of a foreign cheque, or any exchange issue. The call was about fraud 
on Mr Ps card, and a new card was issued as a result of the call. 
That means I still cant say that Mr P acted in reliance on something Barclays had said to 
him, when he went ahead with the sale of his house. 
Mr P doesnt think that Barclays would lose anything if it accepted his cheque. But Im aware 
that Barclays has previously found it very difficult to exchange this particular currency. 
Theres only a very limited market for it. So Barclays might well lose money if it did accept 
his cheque. 
Ive reconsidered this case carefully, and I still think that its more likely than not that 
Barclays didnt advise Mr P that it would accept this cheque, before he completed the sale of 
his house. And I know Barclays has difficulties exchanging this currency. So I cant fairly ask 
Barclays to accept this cheque, or to do any more now. I know how disappointed Mr P will be, but I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Its now for Mr P to decide if he wants to take legal action on this issue rather than accept my 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman