DRN-2833454
The complaint
Miss L complains about Quickly Finance Limited (QFL) and their decision to pursue claims 
for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) without her authorisation.
What happened
On 8 August 2019, Miss L authorised QFL to complete a free PPI check with several lenders 
on her behalf. As part of this free PPI check, Miss L signed a letter of authority (LOA) which 
allowed QFL to speak to her lenders. By signing this LOA, Miss L also agreed to be bound 
by the terms and conditions of the agreement.
QFL completed this free PPI check. And PPI was identified on Miss Ls account by lender S. 
So, QFL submitted a full claim on Miss Ls behalf, as QFL feel they were able to do under 
the terms of the agreement.
In November 2020, lender S wrote to both QFL and Miss L. They explained they intended to 
uphold Miss Ls claim but needed proof of Miss Ls address before doing so. QFL contacted 
Miss L to obtain this information, but Miss L didnt respond and she was unhappy that QFL 
were continuing to contact her. So, she raised a complaint.
Miss L complained about QFLs attempts to contact her. She thought this contact constituted 
as harassment, as shed made it clear she didnt want QFL to act on her behalf. She also 
questioned the signature on the LOA, saying it wasnt hers. So, she wanted QFL to cease 
contacting her.
QFL didnt agree. They explained Miss L wouldve needed to sign the LOA for them to 
complete the free PPI check. And while the signature may not have matched Miss Ls wet 
signature, this was to be expected as the signature was inputted electronically. QFL thought 
theyd acted fairly by continuing to act on Miss Ls behalf and requested further information 
to ensure she received compensation from lender S. So, they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. And they explained if Miss L did receive compensation, they would be 
invoicing for their settlement fee, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
In January 2021, lender S wrote to both Miss L and QFL confirming her PPI refund. So, QFL 
invoiced Miss L for their fee. Miss L was unhappy with this, and QFLs response to her 
complaint, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained were unable to 
consider the validity of a signature, as we dont have the expertise to do so. But she thought 
about what was most likely to have happened and having done so, she thought Miss L was 
likely to have signed the LOA. And by doing so, she thought Miss L had authorised QFL to 
submit a free PPI check and a full claim if PPI was identified.
So, she thought QFL were fair to charge Miss L for their settlement fee, if the agreement 
remained in place when lender S originally upheld the claim. And she didnt think shed seen 
evidence to show Miss L had cancelled the agreement. So, she didnt think she could say 
QFL had done anything wrong.
She acknowledged some of the communication QFL sent to Miss L was conflicting. But she 
didnt think this changed the fact they were entitled to charge their fee. And she didnt think 
the communication QFL was unreasonable or harassing. So, she didnt think QFL needed to 
do anything more.
Miss L didnt agree. She maintained her view that QFL didnt have authorisation to pursue a 
complaint on her behalf. She challenged the validity of the signature and didnt think it was 
fair that we couldnt consider this. She thought this left many members of the public 
vulnerable to the practices of QFL which she didnt agree with. As Miss L didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss L. From what Ive seen, I 
think its clear Miss L assumed she was authorising QFL to complete a free PPI check only 
when she signed up to their services online. So, when she continued to receive 
communication from them after these checks had been completed, I can understand why 
she wouldve found this frustrating. And I can appreciate why this wouldve been made 
worse when she received an invoice after she received a PPI refund, which she doesnt think 
should be payable. But for me to agree QFL have done something wrong, and the fees 
shouldnt be payable, Id need to see one of two things. Either, that QFL didnt have the 
necessary authorisation to pursue a claim on Miss Ls behalf. Or, if I think they did, that the 
work they completed was of no material value to the successful claim. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the authorisation QFL held. Ive seen the details QFL received on 8 
August 2019, when Miss L signed up for a free PPI check. This included Miss Ls current 
and previous addresses, her date of birth, contact details and list of lenders. I think its 
reasonable for me to assume this was Miss L who completed this application as there were 
several personal pieces of information provided.
And Ive seen as part of this sign up process, in order to allow QFL to complete the free PPI 
check, Miss L wouldve needed to sign a LOA and tick a box to confirm she read and agreed 
to the terms and conditions of that agreement. I recognise Miss Ls concerns about the 
signature shown on the LOA. But Im unable to consider the validity of this signature as I 
dont have the expertise to do so. This would be an allegation of fraud and it would need to 
be considered by the relevant organisation who investigates criminal matters of this nature.
But what I can say is I wouldnt expect this signature to be an exact replica of Miss Ls wet 
signature, as the application was made and submitted electronically. And on the balance of 
probability, considering the personal details that were included as part of the sign-up 
process, I think its most likely that Miss L did sign the LOA as part of this. So, Im satisfied 
QFL had the necessary authority to contact lender S on her behalf.
And the LOA clearly explains that by signing it, Miss L was agreeing to the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. Ive seen these terms and conditions which explain Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise {QFL} to continue to provide 
You with the Claims Services. And Ive seen QFLs system notes, which show lender S 
confirmed PPI was on Miss Ls account. So, they submitted a claim on her behalf.
As I think the terms and conditions made it reasonably clear QFL would continue to submit a 
claim after the free PPI check, and I think Miss L signed the LOA that agreed to these terms, 
I think QFL acted fairly by doing so and that they held the necessary authorisation. So, I 
cant say they did anything wrong.
Ive then thought about the work QFL completed and whether this led to the successful claim 
Miss L received. Ive seen lender S continued to correspond with QFL throughout the claim 
process, providing QFL with the eventual uphold letter which included the breakdown of Miss 
Ls refund. This satisfies me that lender S recognised QFL as Miss Ls representative for the 
claim and that the successful claim resulted from the submission QFL sent. 
The agreement Miss L entered into was a no win no fee agreement, meaning QFLs 
settlement fee was based on the refund Miss L received, not the amount of work they 
completed. So, in order for me to say the fee is payable, Id only need to be satisfied that the 
refund Miss L received came from the submission QFL made. And I think it did. So, I think 
QFL have acted fairly when invoicing Miss L for their fee, in line with the fee information 
included in the terms and conditions.
And as I think QFL were authorised to act on Miss Ls behalf, I dont think it would be fair for 
me to say they harassed Miss L when they attempted to obtain further information from her 
to support her claim. Ive seen on 7 November 2020, lender S asked for further information 
to confirm Miss Ls identity. And QFL contacted Miss L to request this. While I appreciate the 
messages QFL sent didnt make it clear what they needed, and they instead directed Miss L 
to follow a link, I dont think this means they acted unfairly. I think QFL were acting in Miss 
Ls best interests to ensure she received a refund for the claim they had the authorisation to 
pursue. And I dont think the amount of times they contacted Miss L was unfair.
Although Ive seen Miss L did reply on occasion to QFL, I dont think any of these messages 
were clear she wanted to cancel the agreement. And even if they did, by this point Miss Ls 
claim had been successful as lender S had already confirmed they were calculating the 
refund Miss L would be due. And Ive seen the terms and conditions which explain You 
acknowledge that once a claim has been successful or you receive any benefit from
instructing FTR to bring a claim, you will be liable to pay the contingency fee as set out at
clause 3 above. Termination of this agreement following such success will still incur the 
appropriate fee as outlined in point 3 of this agreement. So, I think even if Miss L had 
followed the cancellation process, the fee would still have been payable.
Because of the above, I think QFL have acted fairly and reasonably. So, I dont think they 
need to do anything more. I understand this isnt the outcome Miss L was hoping for and I 
recognise it has a financial impact on her, which is something Ive considered throughout. 
But Im only able to direct QFL to do something if I think theyve made an error. And I hope 
this decision sets out clearly why I dont think thats the case on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint about Quickly Finance 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman