DRN-2834235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank Plc caused them distress when they referred a 
payment to their fraud team.
What happened
In mid-January 2021, Mr and Mrs D booked an online shopping appointment for click and 
collect at 07:00 a couple of days later. At around 05:00 on the day they were due to collect 
their shopping, Mr D received a text message from Lloyds telling him theyd declined the 
payment and they wanted him to confirm it had been a genuine transaction. 
Mr D then received a further message once hed responded to say it was genuine, which 
said he should try and put the payment through again after ten minutes on the same card, 
but he didnt need to contact Lloyds again about the payment.  
Mr and Mrs D were due to collect the shopping a couple of hours later, and the 
supermarkets telephone customer service team didnt open until the same time as their 
collection time. So Mr and Mrs D went to their local store to put the payment through again 
and collect their shopping. 
When Mr and Mrs D arrived, they were told in front of all the customers in the click and 
collect queue that their payment had been declined so they needed to go into the store and 
speak to customer services. So Mrs D went to customer services and tried to put the 
payment through using her card, but the staff said as the payment had been declined, Mrs D 
would need to contact the telephone customer service team. 
Mrs D contacted the customer service team and tried to put the payment through using her 
card. However, it was declined by Lloyds with the same message Mr D had received earlier 
in the day, so the customer service team werent able to take the payment from Mrs D. This 
meant Mr D had to call back again and make the payment using his card  which was then 
accepted. 
Mr and Mrs D were upset and embarrassed that their payments had been declined and that 
this had been discussed in front of other customers. So they contacted Lloyds to make a 
complaint about the initial payment being declined. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. They said their anti-fraud system monitored all payments 
and if the payment looked unusual, the system may decline the transaction. They said once 
Mr D had text back to say the payment was genuine, the next payment had gone through 
successfully. So they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. However, they acknowledged 
the embarrassment Mr and Mrs D had been caused so they offered £40 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt think this was fair. They felt £40 wasnt enough for the time theyd spent 
trying to resolve the issue to purchase their shopping, and the embarrassment theyd been 
caused and that £250 was more reasonable. So they asked this service to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought it was reasonable 
for Lloyds to carry out a security check on the payment as they have an obligation to protect 
their consumers money. She also acknowledged the timing of the check was inconvenient 
the supermarket only requested the payment from Lloyds at 5:04 so this is the first time they 
would have been aware of the payment, and therefore it was the first opportunity for the 
check to take place.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They felt Lloyds hadnt carried out sufficient checks before 
declining the payment as it wasnt an unusual transaction for them. They also felt it was 
unfair the decision had been made by an automated system. So they asked for an 
ombudsman to look at their complaint and the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D have told us theyre unhappy that their payment to their usual supermarket 
was declined on the day they were due to collect their shopping as they feel this is a usual 
transaction for them. However, Lloyds have told us the payment was declined as part of their 
fraud check as the payment was picked up as unusual. So I need to look at whether the 
actions taken by Lloyds were reasonable. 
I can see that Lloyds declined the payment due to a fraud check and that the codes theyve 
applied to the transaction are in line with their guidance so there doesnt appear to be any 
administration error here. I recognise Mr and Mrs D didnt feel this was an unusual 
transaction for them, however transactions arent just considered by a bank in terms of who 
the payment is made to, but also value and the payment method i.e. if the card holder is 
present at the time of the transaction. 
In this case, Ive seen from Mr and Mrs Ds statements they used this supermarket on a 
regular basis and the transaction value is roughly the same. However the previous 
transactions were made within a store meaning that the payment was made by a different 
method i.e. Chip and Pin - so the security measures are different for an online payment. 
Looking at the statements and transaction history, although I can see payments to the 
supermarket in question, I cant see that Mr and Mrs D usually make payments online for this 
amount. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ds feel if the transaction had been reviewed by a 
member of staff the payment may not have been declined. 
However, when looking at the risk of fraud, assessment speed is vital in preventing 
fraudulent transactions, so as a service we feel its reasonable for businesses to err on the 
side of caution and use algorithms in the way Lloyds has done to protect their customers. I 
also think its worth noting Lloyds may still have arrived at this conclusion even if a member 
of staff had reviewed the transaction because of the risks involved. So I think its reasonable 
Lloyds thought this type of online transaction was out of character for Mr and Mrs D and 
declined the payment on this basis for their protection.
I recognise that the timing of the payment being applied for by the supermarket was difficult. 
And that it was more challenging for Mr and Mrs D to contact the supermarket to request for 
the payment to be taken again once theyd confirmed the payment was genuine because of 
their opening hours. However, its not unusual for a banks system to decline payments based on an algorithm of what looks out of character for their customers when the payment 
is requested by a merchant  in this case the supermarket. 
This is the reason that Mr and Mrs D were asked to confirm the payment was genuine by 
Lloyds. By sending the text to Mr and Mrs D it was an opportunity for them to agree and 
make a subsequent payment for the same amount from the same card which would be 
released without further challenge  and provide an extra level of security on the account. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ds frustration about the timing of the message from Lloyds. 
However, Ive seen evidence that although Mr and Mrs D put through their online shop to the 
supermarket on 13 January, the supermarket didnt request payment from Lloyds until 5:04 
on 15 January. So this was the first time Lloyds could agree or check the payment had been 
put through by Mr and Mrs D. 
Unfortunately, as the payment can only be processed when requested by the supermarket, 
Lloyds couldnt have pre-empted the time this would be requested  and therefore the 
inconvenience this would cause because they werent open to take calls at that point. So I 
cant reasonably hold them responsible for an event they didnt actually have control of.
Its also not unusual for a bank to have different working hours for different departments so I 
cant say it was unreasonable the call centre wasnt open between 05:04 when they received 
the text message and 07:00  when Mr and Mrs Ds shopping slot was booked for.  
Ive also seen that when Lloyds security check declined the payment, Mr and Mrs D were 
sent a text message telling them their payment had been declined and asking them to 
confirm if the payment was genuine. It also said if the payment was genuine, it could be put 
through again on the same card which had been used originally. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs D said they were caused distress as they werent able to take 
their shopping for several hours and their payment was declined again in front of other 
customers. However, Ive seen that Mr and Mrs D tried to put the payment through again 
they used Mrs Ds card not Mr Ds which is why it was declined the second time. 
Looking at the transaction statement, Ive seen that once Mr D put through the payment on 
the card which had been used initially  and had passed the security check - the payment 
was accepted. So I cant hold Lloyds responsible here as I think their instructions were clear 
and they acted in line with these.
Theres no dispute here that Mr and Mrs D have been caused embarrassment and distress, 
or that theres been a knock-on effect for Mrs D. However, based on what Ive seen I cant 
hold Lloyds responsible for this as there was no way they could have known the knock-on 
effect cancelling the payment would have had.
I recognise Mr and Mrs D told us they want assurances this wont happen again, but I dont 
think this is a fair request. I say this because Lloyds have an obligation as a lender to protect 
their customers money, so I think its reasonable they have fraud checks in place and from 
what Ive seen I think they acted in line with these. So based on what Ive seen I think Lloyds 
behaved in a reasonable manner by acting cautiously and cancelling the payment.
Mr and Mrs D have told us that it was the actions of the staff in the supermarket that caused 
them embarrassment, both in how they dealt with the cancelled payment and how 
communicated with Mr and Mrs D about it. Mr and Mrs D also said they were caused 
distress after their online order had been cancelled after they were finally able to pay for it  
but again I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for as it wasnt their staff who provided 
this service and they had no control over the steps the supermarket took. I acknowledge this has been a difficult time for Mrs D in particular, but theres no way that 
Lloyds could have foreseen the consequences of cancelling the payment or the actions that 
the supermarket would take. I also dont think there was anything Lloyds could have done 
differently in this situation to prevent it happening - other than allowing a potentially 
fraudulent payment to leave Mr and Mrs Ds account - which their risk-based system 
wouldnt allow them to do. So based on what Ive seen I think the £40 Lloyds offered Mr and 
Mrs D as a gesture of goodwill was fair, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman