DRN-3035555
The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) made phone calls to 
him chasing payment while he was on a payment holiday and then offered him 
compensation but failed to pay it.
What happened
Mr L had a credit card account with Creation. In July 2020, a payment holiday on his account 
was extended. A few days later, he paid off the account balance in full. But he says that, 
while the payment holiday was in place and after hed paid off the balance, he received a 
number of phone calls from Creation. He says the phone calls were aggressive and made 
him feel stressed and anxious.
Mr L complained to Creation and it upheld the complaint. It said there had been an error on 
its system which meant that phone calls had been made to Mr L by mistake. It apologised 
and said it had credited his account with £40 as compensation, which he would see on his 
next statement.
Mr L wasnt happy with Creations response and came to this service. He said that £40 
wasnt enough to compensate him for Creations mistakes. And, in any event, he hadnt 
received the £40 because Creation had closed his account. He said that Creation should pay 
him £1,000 at least to compensate him for the aggression of the phone calls and the fact that 
it hadnt honoured the compensation payment which it said it would make. Our Investigator 
thought that Creation had dealt with the complaint fairly. But Mr L didnt agree and asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute here that Mr Ls payment holiday was extended in July 2020 and that 
Creation made phone calls to him afterwards by mistake. Nor is it in dispute that Mr L 
cleared his balance in full in July 2020. So, what Im deciding here is whether the 
compensation offered by Creation is enough to put things right.
Mr L says that Creation made several calls to him, including six in one day. The contact 
notes provided by Creation show that two calls were made after the payment holiday had 
been extended. This ties in with Mr Ls complaint letter to Creation, which referred to two 
calls. The date of Mr Ls complaint letter is the same day that he cleared his account 
balance. I havent seen any evidence of calls made after that. On the evidence Ive seen, I 
cant safely conclude that more than two calls were made to Mr L.
Mr L says that the calls were aggressive and Im sorry to hear about how they made him 
feel. The notes Ive seen confirm that, on both calls, the agent realised that the call had been 
made by the system in error and explained this to Mr L. I dont doubt that it was distressing 
and inconvenient for Mr L to receive these calls. But Im satisfied that the agents accepted 
during the conversations with Mr L that the calls shouldnt have been made. So, I think the 
impact of the calls was minimised. And I note that Creation accepted when responding to the 
complaint that it had made a mistake and apologised that the calls had been made. 
In these circumstances, I think Creations offer of £40 is fair. I realise Mr L feels strongly that 
it isnt enough and Im sorry to disappoint him. But, on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think a 
higher payment is warranted here.
Mr L says that he hasnt received the £40, even though Creation said it had credited his 
account. Creation provided a statement dated 3 October 2020, showing the transactions on 
Mr Ls account for that statement period. It shows that £40 was credited to the account on 9 
September 2020. 
Mr L says that this statement is manufactured and not typical of the statements he received. 
Hes provided a copy of the statement he received in October 2020. This does look different 
from the transaction statement provided by Creation. But I wouldnt necessarily expect the 
file copy statement of transactions which Creation provided to this service after the event to 
look exactly the same as the statement the customer received in the post at the time. The 
key thing here is whether the transaction information shown on the statements is the same - 
it is. The statement provided to me by Mr L shows that the goodwill payment of £40 was 
credited to his account on 9 September 2020, as Creation said.
Creation has confirmed that Mr Ls account was closed several months after this, because it 
was no longer offering that type of card to customers. Im satisfied that the £40 was credited 
to Mr Ls account before it was closed. But the credit balance doesnt seem to have been 
transferred to Mr L before the closure. Creation accepts that it wasnt. 
I havent seen anything which explains why the balance wasnt transferred to Mr L. But Mr L 
had received the statement showing the payment had been credited and the statement 
contained Creations contact details. So I think its fair to say that he could have got in touch 
to ask how the credit balance could be transferred to him. In any event, Creation has offered 
to transfer the £40 to another account held by Mr L. Mr L has now provided account details 
so that can happen. I think thats fair in the circumstances here, so Im not going to ask 
Creation to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman