DRN-4268971
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
unfairly turned down his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in 
relation to the purchase of a holiday product in April 2014. 
The contract for the purchase was signed by Mr T and Ms E, however as the purchase was 
partially funded with Mr Ts credit card, he is the person able to make this complaint.
What happened
In April 2014, whilst on holiday in Florida, Mr T and Ms E purchased a timeshare from a 
provider Ill call Business O. The total paid was $15,990, which was partly funded using 
Mr Ts Tesco credit card. Under the timeshare, Mr T and Ms E were able to stay for one 
week every year in a two-bedroom villa. The agreement started in 2014 and the 
accommodation was available in week 36. 
In September 2017, using a professional representative (PR), Mr T made a claim to Tesco 
under s.75 CCA. PR said that Business O had breached its contract with Mr T, which Tesco 
was jointly liable to answer. PR said there was a term implied into the contract that 
Business O should have provided Mr T and Ms E with a public offering statement at the 
time of sale, but no such document was provided. Further, under the law in Florida, every 
contract had an obligation of good faith in its performance or enforcement. Here, PR said 
that Business O has asserted that the value of the property was $15,990, when in fact the 
timeshare had no resale value. That meant Business O had acted in bad faith and, as such, 
was in breach of contract. PR said it meant Mr T was entitled to rescind the timeshare and 
sought a refund of the total contract price from Tesco. At that time, no other issues were 
raised in respect of the claim.
Tesco considered the claim, but said there was no evidence that the value of the property 
was misrepresented. Further, PR hadnt shown that the public offering document was 
required to be given to purchasers, nor was there anything to show it wasnt given to Mr T 
and Ms E. But Tesco also considered a complaint that the claim was unfairly turned down. It 
didnt think it had done so and said Mr T could bring his complaint to our service.
Unhappy with what Tesco said, PR referred a complaint to our service. In the complaint, PR 
said that Business O was in breach of contract, but it also alleged that the nature of the 
timeshare had been misrepresented to Mr T. PR also argued that Business O breached the 
EU Timeshare Directive.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and said that she didnt think that Tesco 
had acted unfairly in respect of the claim under s.75 CCA. She thought that there was 
nothing to suggest the value of the timeshare was misrepresented. And she didnt think there 
was enough to say there was a requirement for a public offering document to be provided. 
She further said that in respect of s140A, it was unlikely that a court would find there to have 
been an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
In response to the investigators view, Mr T put forward a different reason why the timeshare 
was mis-sold. He said that the availability of the timeshare was misrepresented to him, in 
particular that the week at the timeshare could be exchanged for something in the UK or 
nearby. But in practice, he could only get one night at a hotel instead of a one week stay. It 
was explained that Mr T and Ms E first tried to use the timeshare in 2016, but couldnt get 
the exchange they wanted (the same happened again in 2017). It was also said that they 
found it difficult to get out of the timeshare.
PR further alleged that Mr T thought he was purchasing a share in the bricks and mortar of 
the property, citing a copy of the mortgage deed to show this. It was said that the timeshare 
was sold as an investment and Mr T never had any wish to purchase a timeshare, instead 
he wanted to be able to exchange his timeshare rights to use for different holidays and later 
sell the timeshare. 
As the parties didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. But before that happened, PR raised further allegations. It said that the provision of 
the finance itself wasnt fair for a number of reasons. It said the credit was arranged on the 
same day the timeshare was taken out and no income or expenditure checks were done at 
the time. It also alleged that Business Os staff were self-employed and PR asked for 
information from Tesco about how it chose to lend to Mr T. Our investigator explained that 
she didnt think she needed any further information to resolve Mr Ts complaint. 
I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision setting out my findings. I 
explained that I did so as I had come to the same overall outcome as our investigator, but for 
different reasons. So I set out my thoughts and asked for both sides to respond. Here is an 
extract of my provisional findings:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based 
it on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
There is no evidence from Business O, and the only evidence there is from the time 
of sale is from Mr T and Ms E. They have provided all of the documentation they had 
from the time of sale, along with their memories. So, when considering this claim, 
that is the only evidence there is available. Im mindful that their memories may not 
be an accurate representation of the precise sales process as memories are 
imperfect. So, Ive had to weigh all of that up when deciding what I think most likely 
happened. I dont think it is unfair to Tesco for me to do this  ultimately I must 
decide the complaint in front of me based on the evidence available.
What claim was made?
At the outset, I think its important to set out what claim was  made to Tesco and 
then, in turn, what complaint was referred to our service.
The letter sent by PR to Tesco was headed Section 75 Claim and set out some 
alleged breaches of contract. Further, in the form used to refer a complaint to our 
service, PR explained it was referring a claim about a breach of contract and 
misrepresentation under s.75 CCA. I think its plain that the claim made was a s.75 CCA claim and I dont think any 
s.140A CCA claim was ever made. While Section 140A may be a relevant 
consideration, and I appreciate that our investigator went on to consider whether a 
court might conclude that the relationship between Mr T and Tesco was unfair, I cant 
see that Mr T (through PR) has ever asked Tesco to consider this point or provided 
evidence or arguments to support it, or that Tesco has had a chance to investigate it. 
So, in the circumstances, I think it would be better dealt with as a separate complaint, 
should Mr T wish to make one to Tesco. 
s.75 CCA
Mr Ts claim is brought under s.75 CCA. In summary, that provision means that, in 
certain circumstances, Tesco can be liable for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by Business O. I dont think its in dispute that s.75 CCA applies in 
this instance. 
Although PR framed Mr Ts claim as a breach of contract claim, many of the things 
he said went wrong are more suited to a misrepresentation claim. So Ive looked at 
both potential claims and considered the complaint that Tesco didnt properly 
consider those claims.
misrepresentation
In the original claim, PR argued that Mr T was told that the timeshare was worth 
$15,990, and later found out that it had very little value. It was argued that this 
breached a term implied into the contract that Business O had to act in good faith. I 
think this allegation could amount to a misrepresentation in addition to the potential 
breach of contract alleged. With both claims, I need to consider whether I think any 
such representation was made and, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think there is 
enough evidence to say it was.
Despite PRs allegation, I havent seen any evidence that Mr T and Ms E thought the 
property was worth $15,990. No detail was set out as to how they came to believe 
that the timeshare they were buying was worth that. In response to our investigators 
view, Mr T and Ms E provided statements setting out their concerns and I think they 
were more focused on the holidays they could book, rather than on the value of what 
they had bought. For example, they said:
As this product wasnt delivering on promises made and we were still paying annual 
maintenance fees I looked at handing it back and walking away, but after speaking to 
Business O and having the threat of legal action explained to me, I started to search 
the Internet and make calls to see if the product had any resale value.
So, when they were unhappy with the holidays, their first thought was to hand the 
timeshare back rather than try to realise any value in it. I dont think that fits with any 
representation being made that the timeshare had an inherent value that could be 
realised at a later date.
Further, Mr T and Ms E havent set out in their own statements that they were ever 
told the timeshare had a value or that they were told it was worth $15,990 (or any 
other amount), nor have they raised any concerns such an issue. I also note the 
Purchase agreement sets out the purchase is being made for your personal use and 
enjoyment and not with the expectation of profit from the rental of your property or 
otherwise. So, although I understand that that is what was paid for it, I cant say they 
were ever told this was the value of what they were buying. It follows, I dont think there was either a misrepresentation or a term of the contract that the timeshare was 
worth a given value.
In response to the view, PR alleged that Mr T thought he was getting a share of the 
bricks and mortar of the property, that this could be rented out for income and this 
could be sold later at a profit. This wasnt mentioned in the original claim, nor was it 
said by Mr T and Ms E in their responses. Mr T entered into a mortgage deed, but I 
think its clear that that is a loan arrangement to buy the timeshare, rather than a 
retail mortgage to purchase real property as one might find in the UK. So I think 
despite the document being set out as a mortgage deed, this isnt proof that Ms E 
and Mr T thought they were being sold a share of the property rather than a 
timeshare entitling them to stay in a certain week each year. On balance, I dont think 
the claim that Mr T and Ms E thought they were buying bricks and mortar or any 
interest in real property is credible.
Mr T and Ms E say that the availability of holidays they could get by exchanging their 
timeshare week was also misrepresented to them. Again this was not raised in the 
original claim made on their behalf by PR. It hasnt been set out in any detail as to 
how the availability of exchange properties was misrepresented to them, so its not 
clear precisely what the alleged misrepresentation was. I understand that Mr T and 
Ms E were not able to find a suitable two bedroom property through the exchange 
scheme when they wanted it, but I cant say that means the exchange programme 
didnt work in the way intended. So although I understand the product might not have 
worked in the way they hoped, I dont think theres enough to say Business O 
misrepresented the product to them. Additionally, even if I did think certain 
statements were made on how the exchange programme worked, I havent seen 
evidence of any attempts to book holidays through it.
On balance, Im not persuaded that there is enough to say Business O made any 
actionable misrepresentations to Mr T and Ms E.
breach of contract
In addition to the allegation about the value of the timeshare, PR said that the public 
offering document wasnt supplied to Mr T and Ms E, in breach of state law. PR 
argue there was a term implied into the agreement requiring the document was 
supplied. Im not satisfied PR has demonstrated the said document was required to 
be made available nor that any term requiring it was implied into the agreement. But 
even if I accept that such a document should have been supplied, and it wasnt, and I 
accepted that there was a breach of contract because of it, Id still need to consider 
what damage flowed from that. Mr T has asked Tesco to refund the full purchase 
price of the timeshare, but PR hasnt explained why such a breach would lead to that 
level of damages. In fact, I cant see any evidence Mr T suffered any loss as a result 
of not being supplied that specific document.
PR has said that this timeshare was sold in breach of an EU Directive and that was 
part of the claim for breach of contract. Ive not seen any specific allegation about 
that set out in any detail, but as this timeshare was sold outside of the EU, I dont 
think that Directive is relevant.
How the credit was arranged
PR has also made allegations that the credit wasnt arranged in the right way and 
that Mr Ts ability to repay the amount borrowed wasnt checked. The concerns 
raised appear to relate more to point of sale loans, where the credit is actually arranged by the timeshare seller, rather then when a credit card is used, as was the 
case with Mr T. But as this allegation does not form part of a s.75 CCA claim and has 
never been made to Tesco directly, I wont consider it further.
Neither party sent me anything further to consider following my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been provided with anything further to think about, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman