DRN-4066618
The complaint
Mr W says he started an in-specie transfer of his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
funds from Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) to Vanguard Asset Management Limited 
(Vanguard) on 9 December 2020. Hes unhappy it took until September 2021 to complete. 
He says this caused him financial detriment as well as trouble and upset.
Mr W was unsure how each company involved in the transaction had contributed to what 
had happened and so he complained to all three parties, which were:
1 HSDL  it handled the asset transactions relating to his Halifax SIPP funds.
2 AJ Bell Management Limited (AJB)  the administrator of his Halifax SIPP.
3 Vanguard  the new scheme provider.
Given the interactions and dependencies between the parties in the chain of events to 
transfer Mr Ws funds, this decision covers the whole journey and the relevant entities. Each 
firm will receive a copy of my decision, and while the background will be the same, findings, 
conclusions and any implications of such will be addressed specifically to each party.
What happened
Timeline of events
My starting point is to establish a timeline of events for the transaction Mr W complains 
about. This has been constructed using information provided by him and the three firms 
involved. The timeline is therefore necessarily detailed and some timings may be open to 
debate by a day or so.
Nevertheless, from the information and evidence Ive been provided, I think the following 
record provides a firm foundation from which to draw my findings and conclusions:
9 December 2020  Mr W submits a request to transfer his pension funds in-specie from his 
Halifax SIPP to his Vanguard SIPP.
14 December 2020 - Vanguard says it discussed the transaction with Mr W and he 
confirmed hed taken an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) from his Halifax 
SIPP. He explained his intention was to transfer his funds to it and go into drawdown prior to 
reaching his Lifetime Allowance (LTA). Mr W says he was told by Vanguard this was the 
date it issued a letter to Halifax SIPP to initiate the transfer.
19 January 2021  Mr W says AJB confirmed the transfer request form was received, but at 
the wrong Halifax office. It was forwarded to the correct AJB office.
22 January 2021 - AJB received the letter from Vanguard confirming Mr W had requested a 
full in-specie transfer and that they needed a valuation of assets.
25 January 2021  AJB sent Mr W its transfer out discharge form by email. This had 
sections for him and Vanguard to complete. Mr W contacted Vanguard confirming hed 
completed his section of the SIPP discharge forms and would upload this so it could 
complete the receiving scheme section.
26 January 2021  Vanguard instructed Mr W to upload the form and said it would complete 
its section and return the forms to AJB. Further to providing AJB with his completed 
paperwork he aired his concern the process had already taken 6 weeks.
27 January 2021  AJB confirms his request to transfer wasnt received until 22 January 
2021. It also noted in-specie transfers can take a while to complete and that the timeframe 
would depend on how long it took HSDL and Vanguards stockbrokers to arrange 
acceptance and transfer dates.
28 January 2021  Vanguard requested a valuation from AJB.
8 February 2021  Vanguard chased AJB for a valuation.
9 February 2021  AJB respond to Vanguard noting it required signed discharge forms and 
explained it couldnt proceed without these.
10 February 2021  AJB confirmed to Vanguard the need for signed discharge forms.
19 February 2021  AJB sent another chaser to Vanguard for the completed transfer out 
discharge forms.
23 February 2021  Vanguard responded with the completed paperwork and requested a 
valuation of assets (previously requested on 22 January 2021).
24 February 2021  AJB sent the transfer documents to HSDL and asked it to liaise with 
Vanguard to arrange the transfer of assets. HSDL confirmed receipt.
25 February  AJB sent Mr W an update email confirming the action it had taken.
5 March 2021  HSDL request password for documents from AJB. This was provided the 
same day.
4-10 March 2021  AJB chased HSDL. HSDL informed it Mr Ws transfer hadnt been logged 
and requested the discharge paperwork to be resent. AJB resent its email and paperwork 
from 24 February 2021
15 March 2021  Vanguard chased AJB again for the valuation.
16 March 2021 Mr Ws transfer was logged by HSDL. It sent a letter to Mr W stating it had 
issued a valuation of his funds to Vanguard. AJB says the valuation was sent to it and 
Vanguard on the same date. Vanguard state it never received the valuation. The valuation 
was sent to its general transfers email, but it has a separate inbox for pension requests.
18 March 2021  AJB respond to Vanguards hastener of 15 March 2021 saying it had 
tasked HSDL with providing a valuation.
30 March 2021  AJB chased Vanguard and HSDL for an update, it asked Vanguard to 
confirm whether it had issued its acceptance of valuation to HSDL as they were unable to 
locate a response.
6 April 2021  Vanguard chased HSDL for a valuation again.
20 April 2021  HSDL says it sent Vanguard a valuation. Vanguard says it cant evidence the 
valuation wasnt received by it, essentially accepting responsibility for this delay.
6-20 April 2021  AJB says it was in contact with HSDL asking for confirmation it was liaising 
with Vanguard about the transfer of Mr Ws funds. HSDL responded saying it still hadnt 
received Vanguards acceptance.
26 April 2021  Vanguard contacted AJB seeking an update on the status of the transfer. It 
informed Vanguard, HSDL was still awaiting its acceptance of the assets. Vanguard again 
seeks a valuation from HSDL.
28 April 2021  Mr W emails AJB querying what was happening. He confirmed receiving a 
letter from HSDL dated 16 March 2021 saying it had valued his funds. However, he said Vanguard had still not received the valuation. He asked AJB to resend the valuation. He was 
concerned about the time being taken. He required access to his funds soon.
29 April 2021  AJB contacted HSDL asking it to resend the valuations to Vanguard.
4 May 2021 - HSDL says it re-sent the valuation to AJB and Vanguard pension team. 
Vanguard says it cant evidence the valuation wasnt received by it, again essentially 
accepting responsibility for this delay.
10 May 2021  Mr W chases AJB again. It sends Vanguard an email asking it to prioritise its 
acceptance.
14 May 2021  Vanguard responds to AJB, seeking confirmation of Mr Ws details.
17 May 2021  AJB provides Mr Ws details to Vanguard.
18 May 2021  Vanguard says it received the valuation of Mr Ws SIPP assets from HSDL.
20 May 2021  Vanguard sent their acceptance to HSDL. It acknowledges receipt.
27 May 2021  HSDL send an email to Vanguard confirming it will send the crystallisation / 
drawdown information when the transfer is completed.
9 June 2021  Vanguard chased progress with Mr Ws transfer.
14 June 2021  Mr W asked Vanguard if it had accepted the valuation. It informed him this 
had been done a couple of weeks previously. He then contacted AJB to get an update and 
make sure it was aware of Vanguards acceptance. It said it assumed the re-registration 
process had now begun.
15 June 2021 - AJB contacted HSDL asking for a progress report and for confirmation of the 
settlement date.
21 June 2021  Mr Ws transfer was authorised by HSDL.
29 June 2021  HSDL sent instructions to Aegon to request the transfer of funds out to 
Vanguard.
30 June 2021  Vanguard requested drawdown information from HSDL.
2 July 2021  Aegon informed HSDL its instructions had been rejected due to an incorrect 
account number being quoted. HSDL says it had used a different account number to the one 
quoted on Vanguards acceptance.
6 July 2021  Mr W chased AJB for an update on the re-registration of his assets. It told him 
it had be chasing matters with HSDL but said the response it had received had been vague.
3-16 July  Mr W and AJB exchanged emails about the status of his transfer. He raised a 
formal complaint. It explained that it had been chasing HSDL and that it was responsible for 
the asset transfer. So it forwarded his complaint to HSDL. On 16 July 2021, HSDL informed 
AJB it had reached a resolution of the complaint with Mr W.
21 July 2021  HSDL told AJ Bell that its custodian had rejected the fund manager account 
numbers that had been provided and an email was sent to Vanguard to obtain the correct 
details. But the error appears to have been HSDLs.
27 July 2021  HSDL told AJB it had sent its expectation to the custodian again and was 
waiting for a response. On the same date Vanguard again chased HSDL for drawdown 
information.
29 July 2021  Mr W made contact with AJB and HSDL to explain he needed to access 
funds as he wasnt working. Having raised a complaint by this point, HSDL offered him £350 
for the things it had got wrong to that point. He neither accepted nor rejected the offer  but it 
assumed it had resolved his case and wrote to him in those terms.30 July 2021  AJB responded to Mr W and confirmed it had requested updates from HSDL 
but hadnt received any information regarding timescales. It also said HSDL were 
responsible for this part of the process and ensuring that the assets were transferred in a 
timely manner.
30 July 2021  HSDL re-uploaded instructions to Aegon to transfer funds, this time with 
correct information.
2 August 2021  Vanguard sent another chaser to HSDL for drawdown information.
10 August 2021  Mr W chased AJB about the re-registration status for his assets.
12 August 2021  AJB spoke to HSDL and it confirmed it was still waiting for confirmation 
from the custodian the final asset had settled. AJB updated Mr W at this point.
16 August 2021  HSDL says all Mr Ws stock had been settled.
23 August 2021  AJB contacted HSDL to query progress on the transfer of the final asset.
24 August 2021  Vanguard received stocks but no confirmation from HSDL regarding 
drawdown information, so this was chased.
27 August 2021  HSDL says all stock had been removed from its side.
30 August 2021  HSDL emailed Mr W to let him know the transfer of his assets had been 
completed.
31 August 2021  HSDL emailed AJB stating the cash element of the transfer had been 
returned to the SIPP, but there was no mention of the assets. AJB asked HSDL to confirm 
whether all assets had been settled with Vanguard.
1 September 2021  HSDL sent Mr W a letter confirming the transfer of assets from his 
SIPP was complete. And that the cash in his pension had been forwarded to AJB.
4 September 2021  Mr W chased Vanguard as the funds hadnt yet appeared in the SIPP 
he had with it. Vanguard confirmed receipt of the funds but had to await confirmation from 
HSDL before it could apply these to his account. He asked AJB and HSDL to confirm the 
position. AJB failed to respond, so he had to chase it again.
7 September 2021  HSDL said the cash was sent across.
13 September 2021  an email was sent to Mr W confirming AJB had received the cash from 
HSDL and it would be paid to Vanguard the same day.
14 September 2021  AJB sent a letter to Mr W and Vanguard confirming the transfer was 
complete.
15 September 2021  Vanguard confirmed it had received the cash portion of the transfer. It 
said it was awaiting a response from HSDL regarding drawdown.
19 September 2021  Mr W confirmed to Vanguard he wasnt in drawdown. It later noted the 
information about drawdown had been provided when he initiated the transfer  it therefore 
delayed applying the funds and cash to the account until this position was clear.
22 September 2021 - Vanguard applied the stocks to his SIPP and completed the transfer.
The basis of Mr Ws complaint
Mr W told this Service:
I was concerned to complete the final transfer (i.e. from the Halifax SIPP to the Vanguard 
SIPP) as quickly as possible and move my pension into drawdown as soon as it was finished 
in order to:
a) Gain access to cash to fund my retirement;b) Avoid any potential changes to pension legislation which were being mooted and which 
might adversely affect my retirement planning (notably any changes to the rules around the 
25% tax free lump sum that could be withdrawn when going into drawdown);
c) Move into drawdown as soon as possible so that I did this before investment growth 
pushed me over the lifetime allowance. The general consensus (which I shared) was that 
stock markets would recover as Brexit uncertainty eased and the world recovered 
economically from COVID uncertainty. In particular I expected UK related funds to increase 
most as they had been additionally suppressed by Brexit uncertainty.
Mr W says he was aware in-specie transfers could typically take six to eight weeks and he 
reasoned it should have been possible to complete the transfer and go into drawdown by the 
end of the tax year which is why he started the process in December 2020.
Mr W also explained his intention had always been to keep the funds he took out of the SIPP 
invested in the market. In his view it made no sense to take and hold the 25% tax free lump 
sum as cash but it did make sense to remove the 25% from the restrictive legal/tax wrapper 
of a pension and move this proportion of his total fund value away from the income tax 
regime and into the (largely) capital gains tax regime of a General Investment Account. At 
the time of raising the complaint he had competed this withdrawal and reinvestment process.
Mr W couched his complaint in the following terms:
I am seeking compensation on two grounds:
-The first of these is for the ongoing stress this overly long transfer process has 
caused me and the time that I have had to spend constantly chasing up three 
organizations, none of whom provided one single unprompted update on my transfer 
during the 209 business days that this transfer lasted. This transfer has been on my 
mind constantly in the past few months causing innumerable sleepless nights as I 
worried about the financial risks.
-The second reason for my complaint is to seek redress for the financial loss I have 
suffered as a direct result of the delay in my transfer from the end of the 2020/21 tax 
year to its final completion on 22 September and my eventual move of funds into 
drawdown. As a result of this delay my funds have increased in value as global stock 
markets recovered after April 2021 and I have now breached the Lifetime Allowance 
of £1,073,100. I accept that my fund would inevitably have breached the Lifetime 
Allowance in the future but the delay in this transfer directly deprived me of the ability 
to shield the growth on the 25% tax-free portion of my fund from that lifetime 
allowance tax surcharge. As a result, I have incurred a one-off minimum tax charge 
loss of £3,316 on my fund that would otherwise have been avoided.
The Investigators initial findings and conclusions
The Investigator was inhibited in her first view because not all the parties had provided all 
the information she needed to arrive at a firm view. Nevertheless, shed seen enough to 
conclude things had gone wrong with the transaction. That each firm played a role in those 
failings. And that the delays Mr W experienced were substantial. She said:
So in total there were delays of 128 days in processing Mr Ws transfer (approximately 18 
weeks). The transfer completed in September 2021 and if we go back 18 weeks from this 
date, it in all likelihood should have been completed week commencing 17 May 2021.
Mr W initiated this process in mid-December 2020  yet even taking out the delays 
mentioned, wouldve still taken 5 months to complete. So, whilst most guidance states in-
specie investment transfers should take around 6 weeks to complete, ultimately there were various different parties involved, having to request and wait for information for one another, 
so I think some delays were not unreasonable.
The Investigator went on to say:
As we know, Mr W said he wanted the transfer to be completed promptly and he was aware 
the Lifetime Allowance would be checked once the transfer had been completed because he 
wanted to go into drawdown. As such he was trying to get the transfer complete before his 
overall value of the fund grew too much and reached the Lifetime Allowance limit. He also 
made this clear to Vanguard from the outset.
At the outset Mr W said his intention was to keep the funds he took out of the SIPP invested 
in the market, he said he didnt wish to hold the 25% tax free lump sum as cash but rather to 
remove it from the tax wrapper of a pension and move it into a General Investment Account.
Mr Ws main concern is that the delay in the transfer caused him to breach his Lifetime 
Allowance and hes incurred a charge as a result of this.
In their complaint response Vanguard stated that the decision to go into drawdown couldve 
been made at any point prior to the transfer completing. At this stage Id like to know if this 
was something Mr W considered, and if so why he chose not to exercise this option?
Its difficult to determine if one or all parties are responsible for Mr W breaching the Lifetime 
Allowance limit  or if this was simply due to the fact that Mr Ws pension fund grew in value 
during which time it was being transferred  of which no party is liable for. It would also be 
helpful to know if there is any way to tell at which particular point in time (or date) the fund 
reached the Lifetime Allowance limit and whether it wouldve been reasonable for the 
transfer to have been completed by this date or not. If any of the parties hold this information 
Id be grateful if it could be provided.
Whilst I am looking to uphold the complaint in Mr Ws favour as there were clearly delays 
caused by all parties, I cant safely conclude at this stage that the tax charge incurred should 
be refunded, without the information mentioned above.
The final positions of each of the firms in this transaction
HSDL
In the file HSDL provided this Service it acknowledged some of the delays and errors in this 
case were its responsibility. It records some of the specific instances in the following terms:
HSDL delays/errors:
-Delay in logging request from 05/03  16/03 (8 working days)
-Initial valuation sent to wrong part of Vanguard (not their pensions inbox)  delay
-from 16/03 to 04/05 (33 working days)
-Delay in authorising transfer from 20/05 to 21/06 (22 working days)
-Delay in correct expectations sent to Aegon from 29/06 to 30/07 (24 working days)
HSDL told this Service:
Taking the fact that Mr W was always able to enter drawdown and the investment 
performance aspects that are outside of our control, I cannot agree that HSDL are liable for 
the taxation element of the claim. HSDL assessed the impact its service issues had on the 
transfer and in recognition offered £350 on 15th July 2021 which Mr W accepted. Having 
reviewed the matter, I consider this offer to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and 
do not consider there to be grounds for additional redress.Vanguard
In responding to the Investigators view, Vanguard said it agreed with most of the delays 
attributed to it. It made a case for an adjustment to the delay to applying funds to Mr Ws 
account because it required the funds to have been transferred in their entirety, which didnt 
happen until the cash had been received. On that basis it was responsible for 64 working 
days of delay.
Vanguard also commented on Mr Ws claim for financial loss caused by the delay saying:
Mr W wanted to protect his Tax Free Cash (TFC) from future charges. He shouldve taken 
the 25% Lifetime Allowance (LTA) less £1 to protect the future 25% tax free element as the 
LTA increases from 2025/26. He instead crystallised the full value.
Mr W is working on the basis that there will be no future increases, but we think this is 
unlikely. Overall, Mr W has had a significantly better outcome in pure cash terms and is 
basing his loss on a value he would never have received.
Mr Ws portfolio value at crystallisation was £1,041,940.58. At 1 April, his portfolio value 
was £983,206.09. He received £22,473 more TFC than he wouldve got at 1 April 2021 due 
to the delay. His General Account wouldve needed to grow at 10% to get to the TFC value 
he received, but at a c.25% in the April to September timeframe to get the actual value he 
received with growth. His investments grew by 6% over that time, so we believe he has had 
a better outcome overall, due to growth on the larger pension pot versus the TFC.
We believe Mr Ws calculations are based on a value which did not potentially exist at 1 
April. He seems to be looking to claim on the value he got from the delay, even though this 
would not have been available had there been no delay.
AJB
AJB responded to the Investigator view in the following terms:
From a review of the decision we largely agree with the content of the conclusions reached 
with these being consistent with our own. We acknowledged that we were responsible for 
some minor delays in Mr Ws transfer but maintained that in the most part Halifax and 
Vanguard were responsible.
In your decision you identified a nine working day delay in our issuing of a completion email. 
Whilst I note that Vanguard have explained that this has stopped them from allocating Mr 
Ws funds, it is a Vanguard process to await the completion email prior to allocating the 
funds so was outside of our control. Indeed should the funds have been received by us as a 
receiving scheme it would not have been a requirement for us to wait for any follow up email 
for us to allocate the funds to the underlying client so should not be held accountable that 
Vanguards processes do not allow for this.
The Investigators final conclusions and recommendations
After reviewing the position of all parties, the Investigator concluded her view of the case in 
the following terms:
Ive considered the service Mr W received and agree with him it has been poor. The transfer 
took around nine to ten months to complete and it appears from all the communications Ive 
seen that Mr W was the one chasing updates. It doesnt appear that any of the businesses 
pro-actively updated Mr W of their own accord, and given the delays, this is something that 
couldve helped ease Mr Ws worries.Each business has offered Mr W compensation, but it appears these were for the delays 
rather than the lack of service. As such I think each business should compensate Mr W £150 
for the poor communication and service and lack of updates.
Ive considered all the comments from all parties but there still isnt sufficient evidence or 
information to determine that the delays led to the breach in the Lifetime Allowance.
AJB and Vanguard accepted the Investigators recommendations. HSDL challenged her 
award because it said the £350 redress it had already provided Mr W was sufficient 
recognition of the things it had got wrong.
Mr Ws final arguments
Mr W didnt agree with the Investigators view. In summary he said:
- Vanguards comments about his TFC and LTA positions were inaccurate and 
misleading, and had unduly influenced her findings and conclusions in this area.
- The cumulative delay he and the Investigator had arrived at were similar, so he 
couldnt understand why the assessed impact on the overall timeline for the 
transaction had been so far apart.
- He raised a new claim for investment loss, which he says was caused by the firms 
poor handling, in addition to the financial detriment he claimed for tax charges arising 
from the firms mishandling of his transfer.
- He didnt think the awards for distress and inconvenience properly recognised the 
anxiety and frustration caused by the firms involved.
As all the parties couldnt agree to the Investigators recommendations, Mr Ws complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision last month. Im grateful 
to those parties who have made further submissions, which Ive thought about in arriving at 
my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ws case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by the firms for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
The processing of in-specie transfers can be a complex and lengthy process. The number of 
parties involved, including receiving and ceding schemes, investment managers, product 
providers and administrators, can be a particular challenge.
I think its useful to understand what service levels firms should be aiming for when transfers 
take place between providers. In this regard the sector best practice issued by the Transfers 
and Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG); whose membership included several trade 
bodies is instructive. In 2018 it published an Industry-wide framework for improving transfers 
and re-registrations. It noted:
When moving investments, assets and entitlements between institutions, people have a 
legitimate right to expect the industry to execute their instructions in a timely and efficient 
manner. Furthermore, customers service expectations are increasing due to the relative 
simplicity of switching in other markets. Slow transfers can cause detriment to customers; 
and the actions of one party can reduce the efficiency of all parties in the chain.
In this publication TRIG established what it considered to be reasonable timeframes for firms 
to adhere to for transactions like those being performed for Mr W. While it noted the 
importance of using electronic means, it also acknowledged that certain elements of certain 
transactions would continue to require manual processes. And that often there were more 
than two firms involved. These matters inevitably built more friction into the process.
At paragraphs 30-32 the best practice guide said:
The TRIG believes that organisations should adopt a maximum standard of two full 
business days for completing each of their own steps in all transfer and re-registration 
processes within the scope of this Framework, with the exception of pension cash 
transfers
This approach would enable each counterparty in a process to be equally accountable for 
ensuring that an efficient transfer and reregistration process is in place. Similarly, 
organisations will not be accountable for the underperformance of counterparties that are 
outside of their control.
This window would comprise two full business days, with a business day defined as a day 
when the London Stock Exchange is open. Each firm would process its step by 2359 of the 
second business day following the day of receipt. This means that, in practice, some firms 
might have more than 48 hours to process their step, e.g. if they received an instruction at 
0900 on day one, and did not complete their step until 2300 on day 3.
It is also important to note that TRIG understood the need for some flexibility. At paragraph 
34 of its publication it said:
There will be some circumstances where it is not possible to complete a step in this 
timescale. No exemptions from the standard apply as tasks should still be undertaken as 
quickly as possible but for specified reasons, counterparties could be allowed to stop the clock on a particular step. Where this stop the clock legitimately occurs, this should not be 
cited as a reason for causing unnecessary delays or maintaining inefficient practices.
Circumstances where this practice might be appropriate will be very limited and we expect 
their use to be measured and monitored.
My next step would usually be to review the terms and conditions of Mr Ws SIPP providers, 
specifically with regard to how they would handle client instructions and timeframes. Neither 
AJB nor Vanguard has provided such.
In its online user guide for in-specie transfers, AJB notes the importance of managing client 
expectations. It says on average transfers may take between three and six months. More 
generic literature for Vanguard notes that depending on the existing provider and the type of 
pension, a transfer between providers usually takes between 1-10 weeks.
When bringing his complaint to this Service Mr W said that in its letter to him of 16 March 
2021, HSDL had said it expected transfers to take approximately 2 to 3 weeks for UK 
securities and potentially 6-8 weeks for non-UK stocks. I suspect this timeframe related to 
only that part of the process it was responsible for.
I note Mr W appears to have been invested in reasonably standard funds that Vanguard 
accepted, and so he shouldve avoided some complications for example where property is 
involved or a hybrid situation with in-specie and cash transfers occurring.
Many SIPP providers publish information about how long transfers from another firm can 
take. These are often caveated for reasons I understand. But the average range appears to 
be around 6-12 weeks. I think this, together with the TRIG publication provides a useful 
guide for my consideration of what happened to Mr W.
More telling than what industry standards suggest shouldve happened have been the 
submissions from the firms themselves about what actually happened.
Ive not undertaken a detailed audit of what did and what shouldve happened. It seems to 
me theres a case that the number of working days of delay caused by HSDL and Vanguard 
may be a little higher than their respective estimates. But this may be offset by overlap 
between the firms over certain periods. And Mr W and AJB have acknowledged their own 
actions havent been perfect.
Whats clear is that HSDL and Vanguard were the main culprits for the poor service Mr W 
received. Together they have acknowledged delays and errors for which they are 
accountable which total 151 working days. That is about 30 weeks. The transfer of Mr Ws 
SIPP funds from HSDL to his Vanguard SIPP was concluded on 22 September 2021.
In broad terms, given the available evidence, I think its reasonable to assume that had 
HSDL and Vanguard delivered an effective and efficient service to Mr W, the transfer 
wouldve been completed by Friday 5 March 2021. Thats about 12 weeks after he sent his 
transfer request, and given the nature of his holdings it seems to me this shouldve been an 
entirely realistic prospect.
Ive considered HSDLs argument about Mr W being able to enter drawdown at any time, 
presumably it means from when he reached 55. But I dont find its observation of particular 
relevance to the complaint brought.
While Mr W couldve entered drawdown before taking the decision to transfer provider, the 
fact is hed decided to transfer and once that process was underway it wouldve complicated matters, which as weve seen were already challenging for it and Vanguard to give effect to, 
even further.
Ive considered Vanguards argument that Mr W shouldve taken all but £1 of his TFC 
allowance, presumably to have left open some entitlement in the event of increased LTA 
allowances in the future. I think this point was mis-conceived. And I dont find it a telling 
matter in this complaint.
Vanguard may have a point when it says Mr Ws received more TFC than he wouldve had 
his pension transferred earlier. But it seems he was already close to his LTA limit around 
March 2021. So, any additional TFC entitlement is likely to have been small. And in any 
event, this is one of the matters to be considered in the overall redress calculations.
I agree with Mr W when he observes that any implications of what has happened to him and 
his pension pot concerning his potential loss or gain in relation to his next benefit 
crystallisation event is too remote to consider in a meaningful way.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint, so he needs to be returned to the position hed have been 
in now, or as close to that as reasonably possible, had it not been for the failings of the firms 
involved.
Redress isnt always a scientific matter. I have noted both Mr Ws and Vanguards comments 
on redress methodology. I remain of the view the framework Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable.
Financial loss calculation required
I hold Halifax Share Dealing Limited and Vanguard Asset Management Limited equally 
responsible for the delays in this case. I require both firms to co-ordinate in carrying out a 
financial loss calculation  each will be responsible for paying 50% of any loss identified to 
Mr W. I suggest Vanguard takes the lead in liaising with HSDL.
Its worth reflecting on Mr Ws objectives around the time he initiated the transfer, these 
havent been disputed by the firms. Mr W told this Service:
I was concerned to complete the final transferas quickly as possible and move my 
pension into drawdown as soon as it was finished in order to:
a) Gain access to cash to fund my retirement;
b) Avoid any potential changes to pension legislation which were being mootednotably any 
changes to the rules around the 25% tax free lump sum that could be withdrawn when going 
into drawdown;
c) Move into drawdown as soon as possible so that I did this before investment growth 
pushed me over the lifetime allowance
In a prior submission Mr W said:
I never had any intention to hold my tax free cash in the investment mix in my GIA.
I have always been clear and this would have been recorded in my telephone call with 
Vanguard advisors in December 2020 that I was intending to invest in exactly the same fund 
outside my pension fund as inside it. Ultimately I was moving to have all my investments in a 
Global Tracker. I have now almost completed this.The only reason the GIA ever had other funds in it was because they were legacy funds 
transferred from Fidelity and I could only convert them into Global Tracker holdings gradually 
without triggering a capital gains tax charge. The point here is very simple. If I had had 
access to my pension funds earlier they would have ended up in exactly the same place as 
they finally did in October, i.e, in a global tracker. I reinvested all the of tax free cash 
amount I took at drawdown back into the Global tracker as shown above. All of my 
comments regarding my GIA and pension investments are borne out by the record of these 
holdings over time as recorded by Vanguard in its own systems.
I require Halifax Share Dealing Limited and Vanguard Asset Management Limited to assess 
what Mr Ws notional position would be now had they provided a more effective service. In 
doing so they should assume the following:
- Mr Ws in-specie transfer between SIPPs completed on 5 March 2021.
- Hed have gone into drawdown and taken the maximum TFC available to him as 
soon as possible after completion, assuming the normal processes that wouldve 
applied thereafter.
- His TFC wouldve been invested immediately into the same funds as his residual 
pension, in the same proportions and thereafter wouldve followed the same 
decision-making pattern until the point of calculation.
HSDL and Vanguard will need to take into account the relevant tax, allowance and 
protection provisions that wouldve applied in these circumstances at the relevant time.
The result of these calculations provides an assessment of the position Mr W would more 
likely than not have been in had the transfer of his funds between SIPP providers, and then 
access to his TFC, happened as he might reasonably have expected when he embarked on 
the transaction. This is value A.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited and Vanguard Asset Management Limited should then assess 
Mr Ws position as it stands, for the relevant funds within the scope of this dispute, so 
making adjustments for any additional contributions or withdrawal of monies that hes made, 
so as to arrive at a like for like comparison.
HSDL and Vanguard will need to assess the relevant tax, allowance and protection 
consequences that Mr W has been subject to.
The result of this calculation should capture Mr Ws actual position now. This is value B.
Mr W will need to provide Halifax Share Dealing Limited and Vanguard Asset Management 
Limited with any evidence its reasonable for them to ask for to derive fair compensation. For 
example, evidence showing what additional LTA liability hes incurred.
If value A is greater than value B, Mr W has suffered a financial loss. Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited and Vanguard Asset Management Limited will be required to contribute 50% each to 
this figure. Assuming he has provided any evidence the firms might reasonably require to 
make the calculations, Ill require HSDL and Vanguard to pay the sum within 28 days of 
being notified that Mr W has accepted my final decision After this each party will be subject 
to paying 8% simple annual interest on their outstanding sum.
If value B is greater than value A, Mr W hasnt suffered a financial loss and the firms will just 
need to give effect to my provisions for distress and inconvenience (as set out below).Halifax Share Dealing Limited and Vanguard Asset Management Limited should provide Mr 
W with a breakdown of the redress calculations in a clear and simple format.
Distress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ws I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of a firms actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Mr W had to access money from investments to fund his living expenditure after his 
contingency funds ran out four months into the new financial year. The length delay in the 
transfer of his pension arrangements led to 10 months of uncertainty and worry. He received 
poor service and communications throughout his journey from all three firms, but in particular 
from HSDL and Vanguard. He had to do much of the chasing and corralling of the firms.
AJ Bell Management Limited
AJB accepted the Investigators recommendation that in addition to the £50 it had already 
offered Mr W for its role in what happened to him in 2021, it should also pay him a further 
£150 in recognition of the level of service it provided. I see no strong reason to disturb this 
outcome.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited
HSDL didnt accept the Investigators recommendation that it should pay Mr W a further 
£150 for the trouble and upset it had caused. It considered the payment of £350 that it had 
offered was sufficient. Ive thought about the extended period of delays it was responsible for 
and the multiple failings it has accepted.
On balance, I think the offer HSDL made to Mr W was broadly in line with what I would 
expect in the circumstances, considering what other parties were also paying to him for their 
respective roles in what happened to him. It should now make that payment if Mr W has yet 
to receive the money.
Vanguard Asset Management Limited
Vanguard accepted the Investigators recommendation that in addition to the £150 it had 
already offered Mr W for its role in what happened to him in 2021, it should also pay him a 
further £150 in recognition of the level of service it provided. I see no strong reason to 
disturb this outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. It follows I require Halifax 
Share Dealing Limited, Vanguard Asset Management Limited and AJ Bell Management 
Limited to put matters right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023. Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman