DRN-2500377
The complaint
Mr B and Miss M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1990 Mr B and Miss M were applying for a mortgage and the bank recommended they 
also take out PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI covered Mr M only. It cost £17.50 a 
month and would have paid out about £220 a month if Mr M had made a successful claim.
Mr B and Miss M say they didnt think they could say no to the PPI. And they say it must 
have been unsuitable for them because when Mr B tried to make a claim some time later he 
was unsuccessful. Mr B and Miss M think the bank was wrong to sell them the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr B and Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Miss Ms case. I have also taken account of 
the law and good industry practice at the time the PPI policy was sold.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
I have decided not to uphold Mr B and Miss Ms complaint and Ive set out below my reasons 
for this.
Mr B and Miss Ms main concern is that the terms and conditions of the PPI made it 
unsuitable for them. They say that, when Mr B tried to make a claim when he was made 
redundant, he was told he couldnt claim for the first four months  by which time, he says, 
the bank would have started repossession proceedings on his and Miss Ms home.
I understand that this must have been a difficult time for Mr B and Miss M. But I can only 
look at the sale of the PPI in this complaint  not how his claim was later handled. Thats 
because a claim would have been handled by the insurer  and that may well not be Lloyds. 
Even if it is, Mr B and Miss M will need to make a separate complaint about that, so the 
business concerned can look at what happened.
So this decision is only about how the sale was conducted.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
Lloyds doesnt have the actual paperwork for either the mortgage application or the PPI. But 
this isnt surprising given the sale took place about 30 years ago and the mortgage ended in 
2005. I wouldnt expect either Mr B and Miss M or Lloyds to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what this service knows about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr B and 
Miss M were given a choice about buying the PPI. I cant be sure what was discussed at the 
time as I wasnt there. And I accept the member of staff might have said it was a good idea 
to buy the PPI  but that in itself doesnt mean it was mis-sold. I see that it was set up to 
cover Mr M only. That does suggest that a conversation took place about the PPI at the time 
and it was tailored to suit Mr B and Miss Ms needs. I think its also likely Lloyds sent the 
relevant literature to Mr B and Miss M after the sale. I think this would have been before the 
PPI actually started, as theres normally several weeks delay between buying PPI and cover 
starting, which is when the mortgage begins. Thats what Lloyds normally did, and I cant see 
any reason why it would treat Mr B and Miss M differently.
Overall, I think Lloyds most likely gave Mr B and Miss M enough information for them to 
know they didnt have to buy the PPI, even though I do understand why theyve forgotten this 
over the years.
Lloyds thinks it advised Mr B and Miss M to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. From what I know of Mr B and Miss Ms circumstances at the 
time, I think the policy was suitable for him.
- Mr M was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like Mr M would have been affected 
by any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions. 
- Mr M doesnt know if hed have got sick pay if he couldnt work. And he says (when he 
was made redundant) that he was told hed have to be unemployed for four months 
before he could claim. Ive looked at the nearest policy that Lloyds has from the time to 
see if that was on the policy. The policy Ive seen is from about 9 months after Mr B and 
Miss M bought their PPI. I think this is the best information we can get to show what the 
actual policy covered. Although this policy isnt from the actual date of the sale, in 
general changes to policies reduced benefits and/or timescales rather than increasing 
them. So an earlier policy is likely to have been more generous, not less. The policy Ive 
seen says Mr B would need to be unemployed for 60 days before he could claim  and 
that payments would then be made to cover day 61 onwards. So Mr B and Miss M would 
have had to find the money to pay their mortgage for the first 2 months, but after that the 
policy would pay out. 60 days is a very common waiting period in policies like this, so I 
cant say it was particularly onerous and should have been pointed out to Mr B and 
Miss M at the time. Even if it had been, its unlikely Mr B and Miss M could have bought 
a policy with better terms for the same rate. I understand Mr B and Miss M feel the policy 
wasnt suitable, given what happened later, but as I said above, I cant take that into 
consideration here. And the policy did provide other potential benefits that could have 
helped meet the cost of the mortgage if, for example, Mr B couldnt work because he 
was ill or had an accident. A mortgage is a big commitment, and I think Mr B and Miss M 
would have had some use for the policy. If nothing else, even though there was a waiting 
period, theyd have been able to show Lloyds that they had some cover for their 
mortgage if Mr B was unemployed for any extended period of time.- Lloyds needed to give Mr B and Miss M enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when they were told what 
the PI would cost. But I do think theyd have known it cost something. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think when Mr B and Miss M 
first knew the cost affected their decision to buy the PPI. 
- Its possible that Lloyds could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused him to 
change his mind about buying the policy. So he and Miss M arent any worse off as a 
result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong. So theres nothing that Lloyds needs to 
do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman