DRN-2137837
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the way Klarna Bank AB (publ) Klarna handled a credit application 
she made. 
What happened
In late April 2020 Mrs A bought a mobile phone as a gift through a well-known manufacturer. 
She paid a deposit and arranged to pay the rest of the cost through a credit agreement with 
Klarna. Klarna initially told Mrs A her credit application was successful, but it then indicated 
the phone manufacturer had declined the agreement. 
Klarna then told Mrs A the application had been flagged because there was an issue when 
it completed its security checks, so it hadnt allowed her order to proceed. It referred her to 
its securities team in early May to discuss the matter. Mrs A later pointed out that her 
address had been recorded incorrectly. According to Mrs A, the securities team resolved the 
issue with her application and told her to wait for it to send an email - and not to attempt 
another order in the meantime. 
Mrs A hadnt heard anything by mid May 2020, so she contacted Klarna. It said it couldnt tell  
from its system why the order was cancelled, so it agreed to log a complaint on her behalf. 
Mrs A made it clear she didnt want to cancel her order. She called Klarna again on 13 May 
2020 and asked it to confirm the nature of the email it was sending her. She explained shed 
been told not to attempt another order until she had the email and she asked if she could 
speak to the securities team. The call handler said they couldnt transfer the call and they 
didnt know what the expected email was about either - but Mrs A would need to wait a few 
more days to receive it. Failing that, they suggested Mrs A could try to place another order or 
wait for a complaint response. Mrs A didnt think the call handler fully understood the 
situation, but the records indicate she agreed to wait anyway.
Klarna sent Mrs A its complaint response later in May 2020. Despite what Mrs A had 
previously been told, Klarna again said it hadnt cancelled the order (because it doesnt have 
the facility to once accepted) so the issue was down to the manufacturer. And Mrs A would 
have to contact them about it. Mrs A wasnt happy with Klarnas response, so she 
complained to us in early June 2020.
Our investigator asked Klarna for confirmation that the manufacturer declined the 
agreement. Klarna then acknowledged it had previously given Mrs A the wrong information. 
It explained that when it carried out its usual security checks, the application was declined, 
so it told the manufacturer to cancel her order. And even though Mrs A was then able to give 
Klarna the information needed to satisfy its checks, it wasnt able to reinstate her order. 
So the only option was for her to make a new order through the manufacturer  which she 
did. Klarna also confirmed the declined order wouldnt have impacted Mrs As credit file. 
The investigator sent Mrs A and Klarna her assessment. She upheld the complaint and said 
Klarna had caused Mrs A avoidable distress and inconvenience due to its handling of things. 
So she recommended Klarna pay Mrs A £75 in compensation. Mrs A didnt think the 
investigators assessment fully recognised the misinformation shed been given by Klarna. 
And she didnt think £75 fairly compensated her for the inconvenience shed suffered. 
So, the matters been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to say whether a financial business should offer credit or not. Thats an 
internal decision for a business to make. But I can say whether the business handled things 
fairly and reasonably.
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen and Klarnas response to our service that its initial 
checks highlighted a problem with Mrs As application. And, as Mrs A later pointed out that 
her address hadnt been recorded correctly, that might account - in part at least - for why 
Klarna told her the account had been flagged.
Mrs A seems to have been reasonably satisfied after speaking to the securities team in early 
May. And she thought that once she received its email  due around 13 May  shed be able 
to get her order back on track.
But as time went on, Mrs A was still unclear about what was happening, so Klarna agreed to 
log a complaint on her behalf. I can also see she called Klarna on 13 May to find out what 
was going on, as she hadnt received the email she expected. Klarna hasnt been able to 
give us any call recordings, but its provided transcripts of some of its conversations with 
Mrs A. Ive noted that during the call on 13 May, Mrs A asked to be transferred to the 
securities team again (as she thought it fully understood the situation) and the call handler 
replied that wasnt necessary. As Klarna didnt think there were any flags showing on 
Mrs As account at that point, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to say it wasnt 
necessary to transfer her to the securities team. But I do think it could have done more to 
help Mrs A. 
The call handler couldnt answer Mrs As question about the nature of the email she was 
waiting to receive from the securities team. And, as Mrs A thought this was key to getting her 
order back on track, I think at the very least they could have tried to find out what the email  
related to, or when it would be sent - particularly as Mrs A expected to receive it by 13 May. 
I think that would have been better than simply telling her shed have to wait a few more 
days. I appreciate the call handler probably thought they were being helpful by also 
suggesting Mrs A try placing another order or wait for the complaint response. But as Mrs A 
had already explained shed been told not to place an order until she had the email, I can 
appreciate why she thought the call handler might not have fully understood the problem. 
And I can see why that would have added to her frustration.
But I dont think that frustration would have reduced when Mrs A then received Klarnas 
complaint response a few days later. Thats because it again suggested the manufacturer 
had cancelled the agreement  not Klarna  and told her shed need to contact them directly. 
Given what Mrs A had apparently been told during her call with the securities team, I can 
appreciate why she was confused by that response. And, it was only when asked for more 
information by our service that Klarna realised the information in its complaint response 
wasnt right either.  
I fully appreciate why Mrs A says Klarnas handling of things caused confusion and 
inconvenience. And she said she made numerous calls over a 4-week period. Whilst I havent received transcripts for all of the calls Mrs A says shes made, Im satisfied from 
what Ive seen that Klarnas handling of things is likely to have led Mrs A to make more calls 
than might otherwise have been necessary. I can also appreciate why, in the end, it would 
have been inconvenient for her to place a new order with the manufacturer. Shed ordered 
the phone as a gift, so it was important she received it by a specific date. 
But, Ive also taken account of the fact that the events happened within a relatively short 
period of time  a matter of weeks. So, Im satisfied the inconvenience Mrs A felt was 
unlikely to have been prolonged. And taking that into account, I think the £75 compensation 
recommended by our investigator fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience shes likely to 
have suffered. So, thats the amount Im going to ask Klarna to pay Mrs A now to put things 
right.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Klarna Bank AB (publ) to pay Mrs A £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect information it gave her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision by 10 December 2020. 
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman