DRN-4224253
The complaint
Mr H complains about the manner in which TSB Bank plc blocked and then closed his 
account. Hed like to be compensated for the hardship his caused.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr H attempted to make purchase a watch for £1,800 using his TSB 
account, but had difficulty authenticating the payment. He contacted TSB to try to resolve the 
situation, which involved updating his phone number with the bank. But this didnt resolve 
the situation. 
Mr H later found the bank had blocked his account and asked him for proof of entitlement for 
two transactions paid into his account. He provided further information to the bank, but after 
a review the bank decided to close his account with immediate effect. They also held on to 
the remaining funds in the account.
When Mr H attempted to speak to TSB, he had difficulty getting through to speak to anyone, 
and was given incorrect information about whether he could withdraw his funds. 
Mr H complained to TSB. The bank responded to say that they were within their rights to ask 
him for proof of entitlement to the funds in his account, and to block the account while they 
do so. They said they hadnt accepted his proof of entitlement, so the funds were recovered 
and the account closed. But they accepted the service he received hadnt been up to 
standard, so offered him £30 to resolve the complaint.
Unsatisfied with this answer Mr H referred the complaint to our service. He said the block on 
the account had put him in to significant financial hardship, and he wasnt able to pay for 
essentials. Because of this he had fallen in to rent arrears. This had had a severe impact on 
his mental health and personal relationships. Because his account had been closed, he 
hadnt been able to maintain payments into his crypto investment accounts, and the funds 
had been liquidated at a significant loss to him. Since the closure hes had difficulty opening 
accounts or obtaining credit.
TSB reassessed their position  they accepted they could have done more to verify the 
payments into Mr Hs account, and they now felt that they should have returned the funds 
remaining to him earlier. They offered to return the funds, along with 8% simple interest. 
They also agreed to pay him £250 for the distress caused.
Our investigator felt this was fair. They said it was reasonable for TSB to block Mr Hs 
account while they investigated his source of funds. But when it came to the closure, they 
werent convinced it was reasonable for the account to be closed right away  it would have 
been reasonable to give him the 60 days notice required in the account terms. And it wasnt 
reasonable for TSB to retain his funds as long as they did. So, it was reasonable to return 
the funds along with the 8% interest.
The investigator didnt agree TSB were responsible for Mr Hs further losses. They felt the 
rent arrears had built up before the account closure, and the closure of the investments was 
significantly afterwards. They couldnt see TSB had recorded anything that would prevent 
him being able to open accounts elsewhere. She accepted the impact TSB retaining his 
funds had on Mr Hs health and wellbeing. But overall, they were satisfied that the 
compensation of £250, in addition to the £30 previously offered, was fair.
Mr H disagreed, saying he didnt feel this adequately took into account his circumstances, 
and the consequences of TSBs actions. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr H Ive read and considered all of his submissions to our service. I 
appreciate hes provided us with a lot of information on how he feels his issues with TSB 
have impacted him. But in this decision, Ive concentrated on what I see as the crux of the 
complaint, the most important issues. This is in line with the rules of our service and reflects 
our role as an informal dispute resolution service. If I dont mention something in particular it 
isnt because Ive not understood it or failed to take it on board, but because I dont see it 
necessary to reaching a fair and reasonable decision.
Overall, I am satisfied that TSB havent treated Mr H fairly. But I consider the offer TSB have 
put forth to resolve things is reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate Mr H will likely 
find this disappointing, but Ill explain why below.
Account blocks and reviews
TSB, like all UK financial businesses, have legal and regulatory obligations to meet when 
providing accounts to their consumers. They have particular duties to monitor the 
transactions on accounts and understand how the account is being used. This can mean 
that on occasion they need to ask a consumer for further information on money paid into the 
account, and the transactions going out. This is what happened here with Mr Hs account. I 
appreciate Mr H will have found it frustrating to have his account blocked, but as TSB were 
meeting these requirements, I dont see that theyve been unreasonable or unfair. So, I 
wouldnt ask them to compensate for applying the block, or from any upset that flowed from 
this.
Mr H provided the requested information promptly, but it seems TSB werent satisfied with 
what was provided. TSB have accepted they could have done more to follow up on this 
investigation, such as speaking to the other firms involved. But this wasnt done, and instead 
the review was completed on 19 August 2021. Once the review was completed TSB could 
have released the funds to Mr H  but they held on to them until July 2022. I cant see a 
reasonable justification for this delay.
Im mindful that Mr H was intending on spending most of these funds on the purchase of the 
watch which didnt go through. So, this wasnt likely money he needed to pay for essentials  
but this is money he has been without for a considerable length of time. Its right that TSB 
add 8% interest to this amount for the time that he was without the funds.
Account closure
Payment account providers can close consumers payment accounts so long as they do so 
in line with the relevant regulations and the terms of the account. Typically, this involves giving two months notice  and this is whats in the terms of Mr Hs TSB account. This is 
generally thought of as enough time to arrange new banking facilities.
However, in Mr Hs case TSB closed the account immediately. The terms also outline 
reasons when an account can be closed without notice. Ive considered these reasons, but 
Im satisfied none of them apply to the circumstances. It wasnt reasonable for TSB to close 
Mr Hs account immediately.
TSB should have given Mr H two months notice before closure, which would have been until 
19 October. But Mr Hs accounts always would have closed then, and he would have had to 
make alternative banking arrangements. Because no notice was given, Im satisfied Mr H 
was left without the ability to make and receive payments between 19 August and 3 October, 
when he was able to open another payment account. 
It was fair for TSB to decide to close Mr Hs account, but I dont think the manner in which 
they did was fair. This will have added to the inconvenience and distress.
Mr Hs losses
Ive considered whether its reasonable to hold TSB liable for any of the losses Mr H has 
claimed for his account being shut. And I think its important to be clear that Im considering 
whether the impact on TSB not providing sufficient notice before closing Mr Hs account led 
to any consequential losses, as this is the where theyve been unreasonable.
Mr H has said because of the account closure he fell in to rent arrears. But from the 
statement Ive seen the rent arrears began several months before his account was blocked 
and subsequently closed by TSB. The statement shows that he continued to make payments 
towards the rent even during the period the account was blocked, and for the period he 
should have had use of his TSB. So, I cant agree the rent arrears were caused by TSB 
closing his account.
But I accept it will have made it more difficult for Mr H to pay his utilities. Hes sent us 
evidence of his broadband being disconnected for non-payment  although looking at the 
billing dates the periods of non-payment dont fall within the two months notice period. I also 
see from the statements of the TSB account the broadband Direct Debit was returned 
unpaid in July 2021, before any block had been applied to the account. But I also accept not 
having an account would have made it harder to manage finances during this period.
Ive considered the information he has sent us about his crypto investments. From the 
statement available I can see that there were payments made into the crypto account during 
the period that the TSB should have been left open. From what Ive seen the crypto account 
wasnt liquidated until May 2022, which is considerably after it would have been reasonable 
for TSB to close his account. He would always have had to find a new account provider by 
then. I cant see that TSBs early closure of his account subsequently led to any of his crypto 
losses.
Mr H has said he found it difficult to get accounts elsewhere, particularly one that would 
allow him to deposit cash. The bank havent recorded a marker with the fraud prevention 
agencies. Mr Hs credit file shows the account as settled, with no outstanding balance. This 
is factually accurate, and generally wouldnt be seen as a negative. If Mr H couldnt get a 
facility where he could deposit cash, Im not persuaded this is down to the actions of TSB.
Customer service and compensationTSB have accepted that Mr H likely had difficulty getting in touch with them to discuss his 
account and will have spent a long time on hold. Theyve already offered £30 for this. Ive 
also considered that this whole situation began with the attempted purchase of the watch  
when TSB gave him incorrect advice on what to do to get the payment authenticated. 
Mr H has also commented on how stressful this situation has been; and has detailed the 
impact on his mental health and personal relationships. I broadly accept this has been a 
difficult time for Mr H. But I also have to focus on the impact of the actions of TSB that I 
consider to be unfair  such as the early closure of his account. I see that the service hes 
received from TSB has been poor, and they have delayed the return of funds to him 
unnecessarily. But Im also minded that the £250 theyve now offered, in addition to the 
previous £30, is a reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
To put things rights, TSB must:
Refund the remaining funds held, if they have not already done so.
Add 8% simple interest per annum to that amount  from the 19 August 2021 when 
the review was completed, until the date the funds were made available to Mr H
Pay Mr H £250 compensation for the delays and poor service, in addition to the £30 
already offered

My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank Plc to settle the 
complaint as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman