DRN-3219005
The complaint
Mr N complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to refund a transaction he didnt recognise on
his credit card and didnt allow him sufficient time to respond to their enquiries.
What happened
In 2019, Mr N noticed a series of transactions on his credit card that he didnt recognise and
notified Metro about them. Metro investigated the transactions and removed the charges off
the account while they started chargebacks for each of them. All but one of the transactions
was later refunded.
The chargeback system has rules that are explicit about how long each stage of the process
takes. One of the chargebacks, which was for £710 to a furniture store was defended by the
merchant, giving Metro a specific length of time to respond.
When Metro received this evidence, they delayed sending it to Mr N for several weeks.
When it was eventually sent to him, Metro only had a week left to respond to the evidence
theyd received. Mr N was abroad at the time and didnt see the letter from Metro until hed
returned but by this time the weeks deadline had already passed.
Because Metro didnt receive any response from Mr N, and the time limit had been reached,
the charge was put back on to Mr Ns credit card. Mr N complained about this and told Metro
that he hadnt had chance to provide any evidence. Metro declined Mr Ns complaint and
unhappy with how theyd handled the situation, Mr N brought the complaint to our service for
an independent review.
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances and thought that Metro hadnt been
fair to Mr N and sought to mediate the situation. Metro told us that if Mr N could provide
evidence, they would reconsider the refund. Mr N wasnt able to provide any evidence, apart
from his testimony that he hadnt ordered any furniture and hadnt received anything from the
merchant.
Metro didnt accept his testimony and because Mr N couldnt provide evidence, they declined
the attempt to mediate the situation. Our investigator issued her outcome and upheld Mr Ns
complaint, saying that she didnt think Mr N had authorised the transaction and Metro should
refund Mr N. Our investigator pointed out that the merchant didnt appear to exist, the
Internet Protocol (IP) data suggested the activity was in another country and the merchant
didnt provide any proof of delivery for the item they claimed to have sold to Mr N. Our
investigator recommended that Metro refund the full amount of the transaction and any
interest or charges associated with it.
Metro had argued that the IP data was inconclusive, and they werent responsible for
merchants websites, but they agreed to refund the transaction. Metro suggested that they
calculate the interest based on 8% from the date of the charge and sent us their calculations.
Mr N disagreed with Metros approach to working out the interest and also thought he should
receive an additional payment for the stress and worry this situation had caused. Because
no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Its now agreed that Metro will refund the outstanding amount back to Mr Ns credit card
account and that theres a further amount for interest and/or charges to be calculated. Im
also intending to instruct Metro to pay Mr N £250 for the stress and worry this situation has
caused him.
Interest and charges.
There was disagreement over how the interest and charges should be calculated. Metro took
the figure of 8% and applied it as a daily rate from the date of the transaction to the date of
repayment. Mr N wanted the actual Annual Percentage Rate (APR) used to work out the
interest, plus an 8% payment against the loss of the £710.
The repayment of interest and charges is designed to put Mr Ns account back into the
position he was in before the disputed transaction took place. So, its for Metro to work out
what that means here. Ill be instructing Metro to recalculate Mr Ns account, by removing the
additional interest and (any charges) applied resulting from the disputed transaction.
If that results in Mr Ns account having a positive balance, Metro should apply a further 8%
simple interest against that balance.
I appreciate Mr N wanted 8% adding to the disputed transaction, as well as the interest he
paid, but that isnt how the redress is calculated. Im assessing the actual loss experienced
by Mr N  which is the additional interest (and charges) hes incurred as a result of the
disputed transaction and its fair for those to be refunded to Mr N. If Mr N had already repaid
the disputed transaction  then that would attract 8% simple interest because he would have
lost the use of his own money.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr N described his trouble, upset and distress as severe - as a result of how Metro had
dealt with his situation. To better understand what happened, I looked at how Metro handled
the unauthorised transactions. It was apparent that Mr N suffered a series of unauthorised
transactions which Metro looked into  and dealt with as chargebacks. They refunded all but
one and when Mr N didnt reply to their letter  they added the charge back in. Metros delay
directly resulted in the short period of time (one week) they gave Mr N to reply. Metro also
said they wouldnt use Mr Ns testimony as evidence  but what they were asking him was to
prove that something didnt happen  that he didnt receive the furniture the merchant said
hed ordered. Its extremely difficult to prove that something didnt happen, and I dont think it
was Mr Ns responsibility to show that he didnt receive the goods.
There is generally a need for the merchant to provide compelling evidence to show, in cases
such as this, that the item was sent. That puts the onus on the merchant and not Mr N. The
evidence supplied to Metro doesnt show any proof of that  it only shows the address for
delivery matches the card details. If this was a legitimate purchase, I would have expected
proof of delivery to be provided, which usually takes the form of shipping documents from a
legitimate delivery company that can be verified. Also, the merchant code for the furniture
company classifies them as a computer software store, and whilst businesses can change
their merchant code, this was further evidence that there was something questionable about
the transaction.
From what Ive seen, there was sufficient doubt about the legitimacy of the transaction forMetro to be suspicious about it, but they chose to put the onus on to Mr N to prove that he
didnt receive the goods. The impact of Metros approach has been to delay the refund to Mr
N for over two years. Mr N has said that this caused him severe stress and worry, he also
said that it caused him financial difficulties and suggested a figure for compensation that is
higher than Im going to recommend.
Ill be happy to receive both parties comments to this provisional decision. But, unless any
other information changes my mind, Im going to instruct Metro to refund the disputed
transaction (£710) and recalculate the interest and any charges that resulted from this
charge on the account. Also, to pay 8% if the account had a positive balance resulting from
the recalculation. Ill also be awarding Mr N £250 for the distress and worry that Metro
caused.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr N made several comments, summarised as:
Mr N wanted to know if he would be refunded any interest that may have been 
charged before the original transactions were refunded by Metro.
Mr N wanted to clarify how much time he was given to respond to Metros request for 
evidence.
He raised questions concerning the chargeback process.
Mr N argues that my recommendation for the payment for distress and worry is 
insufficient.
Mr N wanted to see the calculation of the interest that hed paid. 
Mr N wanted a written apology from Metro.
Metro agreed to refund the interest that was charged before the original chargebacks were 
repaid and include a written apology to Mr N.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I appreciate Mr N wanted to make further points concerning the chargeback process and 
clarify how much time he had to respond to the request for evidence sent out by Metro. As I 
set out in my provisional decision, Metro agreed to make a refund including any interest paid 
by Mr N, so I dont see any need to address that further.
Mr N raised a question about interest that he may have been charged for the other disputed 
transactions that were refunded by Metro and whether that would also be refunded. I asked 
Metro about it and theyve agreed to refund any interest charged for these transactions that 
hasnt already been repaid.
Coming to the question of distress and worry raised by Mr N  hes argued that he should 
receive a higher amount than I recommended in my provisional decision and made a daily 
calculation to demonstrate his case. He also wanted to explain that there were psychological 
damages related to the incident and that it wasnt viable to take Metro to court about them.
Mr N said this event caused him severe worry, stress and financial hardship. In my 
provisional decision I carefully considered the impact on Mr N and I can see he was very frustrated with how Metro had dealt with the case. Our service is an informal alternative to 
the courts and whilst I appreciate Mr Ns comment about psychological damage -  I havent 
seen any additional evidence of the impact on Mr N that would persuade me to increase my 
original recommendation of £250.  
Mr N wanted to see the calculation of the interest hed been charged by Metro  which would 
be refunded to him. In my provisional decision Ive already stated that Metro should 
recalculate the interest and any charges applied to Mr Ns account. Its for Metro to produce 
this figure and I would expect them to inform Mr N about it.
Metro have agreed to make a written apology to Mr N.
Having considered all the further points made to my provisional decision, I havent seen 
anything that would change it. So, Im now adopting my provisional decision as my final 
decision.
Putting things right
 Mr Ns account was the subject of several disputed transactions which resulted in additional 
charges being applied to his credit card. Metro refunded most of them at the time and this 
decision ensures Mr Ns account is put back into the position he was before they were 
applied to his account, including any interest accrued that wasnt originally refunded. I 
understand his frustration with how Metro handled the outstanding disputed transaction and 
my decision takes that into account with an award for the distress and worry he experienced.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank Plc and require them to:
Refund £710 to Mr N.
Recalculate the credit account to remove any additional interest and charges that
resulted from the disputed transaction, including any interest accrued from earlier 
disputed transactions that hasnt already been repaid.
Pay 8% simple interest if the recalculation ends in a positive balance, for the period
the account was in credit.
Pay £250 compensation to Mr N for the distress and worry caused by how Metro
dealt with the situation and provide Mr N with a written apology.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Metro Bank PLC to deduct tax from any interest payment.
If 8% simple interest is paid, then Metro Bank PLC must give Mr N a certificate showing how
much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman