DRN-1783065
The complaint
Mrs W complains about service she received from Amtrust International Underwriters 
DAC when they were performing a roadside recovery.
What happened
References to Amtrust in this decision include things carried out by its appointed agents. 
Amtrust are the underwriters of the policy and so ultimately responsible even though Mrs W 
wouldn't have dealt with them directly.
In August 2019 Mrs W called for help as the engine light in her car came on when she was 
driving. 
Mrs W is unhappy about the service she received as it took a while for the technician to find 
her. Because of the delays Mrs W cancelled a trip she had planned including some hotel 
reservations. The technician advised the car could either be abandoned or they could 
organise to get it towed. Mrs W agreed to have the car towed, which took several recovery 
vehicles. Also, Mrs W thought a mechanic was coming to look at her car, but it was a 
technician. 
Being unhappy with what happened Mrs W complained to Amtrust. She asked them to pay 
for the towing charges, the cost of the cancelled hotel booking, call charges and the price of 
train tickets she paid to get home.
Amtrust looked in to what happened. They explained that Mrs W had given them the wrong 
location which contributed to the delay. They offered £20 as a gesture of goodwill for the 
time spent waiting. They went on to say that they use technicians, and not trained 
mechanics, which is outlined in the policy document.
Mrs W remained unhappy so brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened. She thought Amtrust acted inline with their terms and conditions 
and so didn't recommend any costs be refunded. Mrs W provided further 
comments maintaining her view that Amtrust don't put their customers first. These further 
comments didn't persuade our investigator to change her mind, so the complaint has come 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin I think it's important to be clear about the type of cover offered under a breakdown 
policy. These policies are designed to help people where their car has broken down. 
Generally the service provider will send out a technician to look at the car on the 
roadside and give an opinion of what they think the problem is. They might not have the full 
testing facilities of a mechanic, but as trained professionals, they do all they can to establish the problem, offer advice on what they think is wrong, and in their opinion advise on the best 
next steps. The service is not designed to perform a full mechanical inspection.
I think it's also important to recognise that what happened to Mrs W was clearly a 
distressing situation for her. Having to cancel plans for a family trip must have been 
upsetting for Mrs W and for her family. Having a car breakdown is always an unhappy 
event. 
When things like this happen there is always going to be some kind of inconvenience, upset 
and, even perhaps cost. My role is to separate the things Mrs W was always going to have 
to deal with due to the breakdown from her experience with Amtrust.
When Mrs W phoned to say the engine light had come on Amtrust asked for her position so 
a recovery operator could be dispatched. Mrs W admits that she gave 
incorrect information about where she was, albeit not on purpose. Mrs W says that the 
Mobile Telephone Tracking Service (MTTS) should've been used earlier to verify her 
position. The MTTS is a system used to locate people and their vehicle by the position of 
their mobile phone.
Mrs W thinks the MTTS should've been used sooner, but I don't think this is the case. 
Looking at what happened I think Amtrust acted fairly when relying on the location that had 
given to them when sending out a technician. Amtrust say they only use the MTTS when the 
person has no idea where they are. 
Amtrust initially wouldn't have had any reason to think the location information was 
incorrect, and so there'd be no need to use the MTTS. It was only after it became clear the 
location given wasn't correct, that the MTTS was used, and Mrs W was correctly located. I'm 
satisfied Amtrust used the MTTS correctly and there was no need for them to use it any 
sooner than they did.
Because of the problem with the location that Mrs W had given it took some time for the 
technician to arrive. Mrs W first reported the problem at 9.29am. At 9.44am Mrs W was given 
an estimated time of around an hour for the technician to arrive. After the recovery agent 
realised there was a problem, they checked the CCTV, used the MTTS to find the correct 
location, and the technician arrived at 11.56am.
When Mrs W complained to Amtrust they offered £20 for the delays in the technician 
attending the scene. Looking at what happened it seems to me that the two-hour time frame 
for a technician to attend is not unreasonable. Because I'm satisfied Amtrust acted 
reasonably, and wasn't responsible for any substantial delay, I won't be making any award 
for this aspect of the complaint. I leave it to Mrs W to get in touch with Amtrust directly if she 
wishes to accept the £20 which has been offered. 
When the technician arrived they plugged in a diagnostic machine to the car but couldn't 
clear the fault code. His opinion was that the car was unsafe to drive the 117 mile journey 
back to Mrs W's home so recommended recovery. Mrs W agreed to have the car towed 
which involved a chain of recovery operatives.
Mrs W says she was told that it would be a mechanic who was coming to have a look at the 
car. But in fact it was a technician. Mrs W says that had she been told it was a technician, 
and not a mechanic, she could've had the option to go to a local garage instead. 
During the telephone call Mrs W was told that a 'recovery guy' would be attending. Mrs W 
didn't ask for any further clarification at time. This seems to indicate that at the time it wasn't 
an important issue whether it was a mechanic or a technician who was attending. That's not to say it isn't important to Mrs W now, but I haven't seen any evidence it was an issue of 
deciding importance at the time.
The policy document says that when a breakdown is reported a technician will be appointed 
to attend the scene. This is what happened. So I'm happy that Amtrust fulfilled their 
obligations under the policy by sending a technician.
To consider any hotel or travel costs I'd need to be persuaded that Amtrust made errors that 
caused those costs to be incurred; but as set out above I don't think that's the case. So I 
don't think Amtrust needs to pay any compensation for what happened. As I explained 
earlier, when things like this happen there's always unfortunately going to be some kind 
of inconvenience, and perhaps cost.
Whilst making her complaint Mrs W made a request for a Data Subject Access Request. I 
understand there were some delays with this due to the number of different businesses 
involved. Mrs W should make contact Amtrust if this hasn't been completed to her 
satisfaction.
I don't doubt this whole event, and the consequences of it have been stressful for Mrs W and 
her family. However looking at the involvement of Amtrust and it's agents I'm satisfied they 
acted fairly and reasonably in their actions. Amtrust has already made an offer to pay £20 to 
settle the complaint. Mrs W should contact Amtrust directly if she now wishes to accept this
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I don't think Amtrust needs to do anything to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman