DRN-3930159
The complaint
Ms B, Miss K and Mr K complain that Bank of Scotland plc has treated them unfairly when 
they attempted to complete a re-mortgage with a change of borrower.
What happened
This complaint has been brought by all three of the account holders named above, but Mr K 
has taken charge of the complaint and was the person in contact with Bank of Scotland in 
reference to the mortgage application. So for ease of reference, Ill refer mainly to Mr K 
throughout my decision, except where it is relevant not to.
Mr K spoke with Bank of Scotland in early July 2022, he was keen to organise a change of 
borrower and product transfer for the mortgage. The plan was to remove Miss K from the 
mortgage, leaving Ms B and Mr K only on it. His existing mortgage product was due to expire 
at the end of September and after this, the rate would revert to Bank of Scotlands standard 
variable rate (SVR).
The application was declined and Bank of Scotland said this was because of affordability. 
Mr K said the mortgage had been primarily paid by him only and it was agreed that an 
appeal would be submitted to Bank of Scotlands underwriters.  
By 2 August 2022, Mr K hadnt heard anything from Bank of Scotland and he approached a 
third-party broker who provided two mortgage illustrations for an application in his name 
only. 
He spoke with Bank of Scotland on 4 August 2022 and asked what was happening with his 
application as he hadnt heard anything. It was explained the adviser hed been dealing with 
was on annual leave but due back the following week. The person he spoke with on the 
phone suggested she could help but would need to do a full telephone appointment which 
could be done the next day. But with this only being a few days before the mortgage adviser 
who was already dealing with the application was due back, she didnt think it would save 
much time. Mr K agreed to wait to hear from his mortgage adviser but expressed his 
dissatisfaction at the service hed received and the concern he had about increasing rates 
and the rate hed likely be able to achieve because of the delay. Bank of Scotland said this 
would be looked into but until the application was completed, it wouldnt be able to determine 
if the delay had resulted in Mr K losing out. 
Mr K didnt receive  a call back until 5 September after he made a formal complaint at the 
end of August. At this point Bank of Scotland explained the mortgage application with the 
change of borrower couldnt be progressed as it was declined on affordability. But it could 
offer a product transfer for the mortgage in all three names as it was currently set up. Mr K 
declined this and said he no longer wanted to stay with Bank of Scotland.  
Bank of Scotland looked at Mr Ks complaint and said it was sorry for the delay in 
progressing the application. For this it offered £40, but it said the application had been 
declined because it didnt meet its affordability requirements.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt Bank of Scotland needed to do more. She 
recommended Bank of Scotland pay an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
but she didnt think it needed to anything else. 
Although there was a delay in Bank of Scotland confirming the application had been 
declined, she didnt think it had done anything wrong when it said it couldnt offer a new 
product with a change in the number of borrowers. And on 5 September, Bank of Scotland 
offered to do a product transfer for the mortgage if there was no changed to the borrowers  
this was before the mortgages existing product rate was due to end. As this was declined, 
she didnt think it was fair to say Bank of Scotland needed to do anything else.
Mr K didnt agree with the outcome. He explained the Bank of England (BoE) base rate had 
increased by 0.5% in the time it took Bank of Scotland to tell him the mortgage wasnt 
affordable based on the changes he wished to make. Because of this he lost the opportunity 
to look for alternative arrangements sooner. He said he wasnt offered a new product on the 
existing mortgage with no change in borrowers and it is right he is compensated for this. He 
asked that Bank of Scotland increase the compensation to £750 and refund the difference 
paid each month between any fixed rate they might have been offered and what they paid on 
the SVR.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged. She said Bank of Scotland explained when 
the application was first made that it had been declined and an appeal on this decision was 
always likely to take some time. On 2 August Mr K obtained a two- and five-year fixed rate 
illustration in his sole name from a third-party broker. Bank of Scotland offered to move the 
mortgage to a new product without changing the borrowers at the start of September when it 
responded to the complaint but this was declined. With this, she didnt think the delay in 
being told the appeal had been declined was the most likely reason that the account had 
reverted to the SVR at the start of October 2022. And she felt the desire to change the 
borrowers on the mortgage was more likely the reason  which Bank of Scotland couldnt 
agree to.
So while she understood the frustration at having to pay the higher monthly payment amount 
when the mortgaged moved to the SVR, she didnt think Bank of Scotland had done 
anything wrong when this happened or that it needed to increase the compensation for this.
Because Mr K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
Mr K will be disappointed with this as it stops short of offering the resolution he is hoping for, 
but Ill explain why this is the case.
It isnt disputed that Bank of Scotland caused a delay with the application and the appeal on 
this. It is the impact of this delay and whether it needs to go further as a result which Mr K 
doesnt feel is fair.
Interest rates did rise during the time Mr K made his initial application and was awaiting the 
outcome of the appeal and it is understandable why he would have been anxious to get a 
new product sorted that met his needs as soon as possible. And any delay in this being 
progressed would add to this. When Mr K made the application to change the borrowers on the mortgage and take a new 
product, he knew it was initially declined but that the adviser would see if it could be 
reviewed by the underwriters. So although he believed there was a chance it might be 
accepted with the changes he hoped to make, he was aware at the initial stage, it had been 
declined. 
Nearly a month after this, Mr K contacted a third-party broker and received two illustrations 
for a new mortgage in his name only, so I think it is clear he was considering other options if 
he wasnt able to change the mortgage as he hoped with Bank of Scotland.
On 4 August Mr K spoke with a new adviser at Bank of Scotland after asking for a call back 
on his application as he hadnt received an update and it was now a month old. He was told 
he would receive a call the following week and this didnt happen. It wasnt until the end of 
the month he raised a complaint about this and at this point it was confirmed the mortgage 
couldnt proceed with the changes but a new product could be offered without these. 
Mr K had the option to secure a new product ahead of his existing rate coming to an end but 
declined to do this as it would have meant keeping the mortgage on the existing term. And 
based on the steps hed taken in August to look at other options which allowed him to 
remove one or more of the other borrowers, I think it is likely this was something he wanted 
to do and this stopped him from taking a new product. 
Im not sure why Mr K didnt move his mortgage sooner after declining to take a new product 
with Bank of Scotland. This meant it remained on the SVR until the mortgage was redeemed 
in May this year. But I dont think it would be fair to ask Bank of Scotland to refund the 
difference paid above what he might have paid had he accepted a fixed rate product in 
September 2022, as I think this wasnt accepted as it didnt appear to meet the needs of 
Mr K and the changes he wished to make to the mortgage. 
Equally, I cannot be certain whether he would have secured another rate with another lender 
had he made an application sooner. The mortgage illustrations do not confirm that, if 
progressed to a full application, Mr K would have been successful and cannot be taken to 
demonstrate an actual loss.
It is right that Bank of Scotland recognises the impact of its delay and the additional 
frustration this will have caused as rates increased while Mr K was waiting without an update 
on his application. But I think the amount offered now following our investigators 
recommendation is in line with the range of award Id expect it to make put things right here.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland should pay Mr K £140 for the distress and inconvenience caused when it 
failed to update him sooner. If it has already paid the £40 offered in its final response, it need 
only pay the balance of £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B, Miss K and 
Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman