DRN-2608684
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to refund their premium in 
relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to 
its agents. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs D took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy with 
Great Lakes. The policy started on 20 February 2020 and was due to end on                      
19 February 2021. The policy provided cover for up to a total of 183 days of travel with a 
maximum of 35 days in one trip. Mr and Mrs D paid a total premium of £915.82, which 
included a medical premium in relation to declared medical conditions.     
Mr and Mrs D say that they had a cruise planned for March 2020, but it was cancelled due to 
Covid-19. On 25 March 2020, Mr D contacted Great Lakes and asked it to cancel their  
policy and provide a refund, as they couldnt travel. Great Lakes didnt agree to a refund, so 
Mr and Mrs D didnt cancel the policy. In Great Lakes response to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint 
and subsequently, it offered Mr and Mrs D a pro rata credit  - amounting to £830.74 - for one 
of the following options: 
a 15-month annual policy for the price of 12, at current market rates;
a 12 month, deferred annual policy, at current market rates, so cover could start  
within 12 months of purchasing the policy;
a UK only, annual, multi trip policy - the destination area may be upgraded later, 
subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Great Lakes says that the first two options may be withdrawn at any time. 
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with Great Lakes offer and pursued their complaint. They said 
that they couldnt use the policy as they couldnt travel. Mr and Mrs D say that they had 
planned cruises in both March 2020 and July 2020, but both were cancelled. They want a 
refund of the premium they paid, and they didnt think that theyd be able to use what      
Great Lakes had offered. Mr and Mrs D said that due to their age and the continuing position 
in relation to Covid-19, they werent sure if they would continue to travel. They said that Mr D 
takes medication and Mrs D is waiting for an operation.        
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The 
investigator also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the 
insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to 
the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that covid-19 didnt make 
it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy 
started in February 2020 and the policy covered various risks before Mr and Mrs D indicated 
that they wished to cancel the policy.   
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of covid-19. 
She thought that Great Lakes offer of a pro rata credit for one of the three options it offered 
was a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator, so their complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel the policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mr and Mrs D asked Great Lakes about cancelling their policy outside the cooling off 
period, so there was no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines 
for the insurer to offer a refund of the premium on cancellation.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. Looking at 
how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask Great Lakes to consider 
exercising its discretion in this case. Thats because I dont think this type of situation 
is one which the discretion in the policy terms is designed to cover  it specifically 
mentions bereavement or a change in its willingness to cover medical conditions and 
thats not what happened here. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro rata 
credit towards one of the three options Ive set out above is fair. Thats because      
Mr and Mrs D had the benefit of the policy from February 2020.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D would prefer a cash refund, but Great Lakes isnt 
obliged to offer that. I think the pro rata credit Great Lakes has offered is a fair 
alternative to a cash refund in the circumstances of this case. Thats because                
Mr and Mrs D entered into an annual contract with Great Lakes but then part-way 
through the year, for reasons I quite understand, wished to cancel the policy. The 
offer Great Lakes has made is more than its obliged to make, and it means that the 
risk it agreed to take on at the outset of Mr and Mrs Ds policy is potentially moved to 
a future date, should Mr and Mrs D take up the offer. 
 
I appreciate that future travel plans are uncertain. Ive noted that Mr and Mrs D have 
referred to health conditions. They declared several health conditions when they took 
out the policy. If Mr and Mrs D were to accept one of the options offered by         
Great Lakes I dont think I could reasonably conclude that it will be impossible for 
them to travel safely during the life of that policy. In any event, for the reasons Ive 
explained, Great Lakes isnt obliged to offer Mr and Mrs D a refund. 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy provides that if they ask Great Lakes to cancel their policy, 
cancellation takes effect on the date the request is received or on a later specified 
date. When Mr and Mrs D became aware that they wouldnt receive a refund of the 
premium they didnt cancel their policy, but Great Lakes calculated the pro rata credit 
from 25 March 2020, which is the date Mr and Mrs D first contacted Great Lakes 
about this matter. I think thats fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
If Mr and Mrs D wish to take up Great Lakes offer, they should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman