DRN-2750355
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Countrywide Principal Services Limited mis-sold her a life insurance 
policy alongside her mortgage.
 
What happened
In 2007 Mrs C was sold a life insurance policy with a sum assured of £54,100 for a monthly 
premium of £10 per month over a thirty-year term. This was sold alongside a mortgage that 
was split on a repayment (£34,442) and interest only (£43,053) basis.
In 2020 Mrs C made a complaint to Countrywide about the sale of the policy. Countrywide 
didnt review the complaint because it said Mrs C had brought the complaint out of time. 
Mrs C remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She said she didnt 
have any dependents when the policy was sold and was sold a decreasing term assurance 
policy when she got married and moved home. So, she felt this policy was inappropriate.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said not having 
dependents at the point of sale didnt necessarily mean the policy was unsuitable as Mrs Cs 
circumstances could change over time and a mortgage is a long-term commitment. She said 
that Mrs C had put on the form that income protection was a higher priority, but Mrs C didnt 
accept the advisors recommendation due to the cost of the policy. The investigator added 
that a life protection policy was offered, and the sum assured was calculated based upon the 
minimum monthly premium - £10. This led to the sum assured of £54,000 being offered to 
Mrs C. So, she didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.  
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said the total amount of cover 
offered by Countrywide didnt cover the full amount of the mortgage and that the sales 
documentation showed she felt life insurance wasnt a priority for her at the time. 
Mrs C added that she planned on taking out an investment to pay off the interest only 
element of her mortgage and could have used the monthly premium towards other day to 
day expenses but was left with no funds to do so.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs C feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Anyone offering financial advice must ensure their recommendations are suitable to meet a 
customers needs. But theyre not required to find and recommend the best possible product 
available. 
I can appreciate why Mrs C took the view that her policy was mis-sold because it wasnt a 
priority for her at the time. And why she feels strongly that the money she paid in premiums 
couldve been used towards other costs or expenses. Though Mrs C is entitled to feel 
otherwise, insurances such as these are a prudent step to take to provide security for a 
significant liability such as a mortgage. Mrs C was the sole applicant, and she didnt have 
any other policy that replicated the benefits this one had.
I note the sum assured didnt match the mortgage lending. But the reason why is explained 
in the application form. Following the discussion about Mrs Cs finances the advisor said he 
could recommend a policy for the minimum amount of £10 per month. This is why the sum 
assured didnt match the total lending as it was solely based upon the minimum amount to 
take out a life insurance policy with the provider. And it was a decision based upon the 
affordability of Mrs C at the time. 
Mrs C said she was interested in an income protection policy. But according to the 
application form she said couldnt afford the maximum amount of cover. And the notes say 
Mrs C only wanted to know the cost of such a policy as she was concerned about the cost of 
some future bills. So, this recommendation wasnt accepted by Mrs C. 
I appreciate Mrs C said money was tight and she planned on getting an investment plan set 
up to clear the interest only part of her mortgage. But any investment plan would most likely 
come with an element of risk. So, I dont think the advisor recommending a life insurance 
policy was unreasonable here. Peoples circumstances can change over time and the 
mortgage was a long-term commitment. And a recommendation to take out a life policy over 
a term of thirty-years takes any potential changes in Mrs Cs circumstances into 
consideration. 
So, I dont believe this policy to be mis-sold, nor do I agree that the premiums should be 
returned to Mrs C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman