DRN-3952095
The complaint
The complaint Mr A complains about a returned post letter sent by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC).
What happened
In December 2021 HSBC sent Mr A a letter notifying him of returned post and indicated that 
it would freeze the account he held for security reasons. 
Mr A called HSBC several times, but the HSBC advisors he spoke to couldnt tell him why 
the letter was sent or what post had been retuned. So, Mr A logged a complaint. 
HSBC looked into the complaint and upheld it. It said a gone away marker hadnt been 
removed from an earlier issue in 2020 and the letter had generated because of this. It 
reassured Mr A that no post had been returned since the incident in 2020 and it offered Mr A 
£50 for the trouble and upset it had caused. Mr A didnt agree with the level of 
compensation, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. Our investigator agreed with the 
reasoning HSBC had given for the error, but felt the compensation needed to be increased 
to £150 for the trouble and upset the letter and lack of earlier explanation had caused. 
Mr A responded to the investigators view and didnt agree with the amount of compensation 
shed recommended. Mr A asked for £500 and provided evidence of other complaints and 
issues he said hed had with HSBC. Our investigator considered the information but wasnt 
persuaded to increase the compensation further. 
So, the complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
HSBC have admitted it made an error when it sent the letter Mr A received. So, I dont need 
to investigate this point or make a finding. What is in dispute here is the level of 
compensation offered and whether its fair in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr A spoke to an advisor at HSBC, and she checked the banks internal system and told Mr 
A that there was no evidence of any returned mail. The advisor also checked Mr As address 
and it was confirmed that the bank held the correct one. The advisor told Mr A that his 
account wouldnt be frozen, and she updated the system to reflect this information. So, Im 
satisfied that at this point although Mr A still didnt know why the letter was sent, he had 
been told there would be no further issues with using his account or it being frozen. 
At this point the advisor had done as much as she could, based on the information she had 
available, as we now know there was no returned mail in relation to this incident. So, I can 
understand why Mr A was frustrated, but I dont find the advisor couldve done any more 
without looking into the issue in more detail. 
The advisor went on to log a complaint and this was responded to on 31 January 2022. In 
the banks response, Mr A was told that the letter sent on 15 December 2021 notifying him of 
returned post was sent by mistake and was due a gone away marker not being removed 
from an earlier issue in 2020. HSBC acknowledged the error as Id expect it to, apologised 
and offered to pay Mr A compensation. This is in line with what our service would expect 
when a mistake is made. 
During the call with the advisor at HSBC, Mr A was told his account had a returned post 
marker on it. Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr A had a marker on his credit file due to the 
issue with the letter. 
Having considered the above and taking everything Mr A and HSBC have supplied into 
account, I agree the £150 the investigator has suggested fairly compensates Mr A for the 
trouble and upset caused. Although the advisors Mr A spoke to did give him as much 
information as they could, he still needed to make two lengthy two phone calls and he has 
also given us a lot of information regarding the trouble and upset caused whilst the bank 
investigated why the letter was sent. Mr A had concerns at this point that his address had 
been changed without his authority and this bought with it a level of stress for the period he 
was waiting on an answer from HSBC. For this I agree the amount HSBC originally offered 
should be increased. 
Mr A raised several other issues that hes had with the bank after the investigator sent her 
view. Although I understand why Mr A sent this information, Ive only looked into the 
complaint Mr A raised about the letter the bank sent. If Mr A wants to raise complaints about 
the other issues, these would need to be raised separately with our service and the bank 
given a chance to respond.
Putting things right
Putting things right HSBC should increase the amount of compensation to £150 to fairly 
compensate Mr A for the trouble and upset the incorrect letter caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and instruct it 
to pay Mr A a total of £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman