DRN-3185410
The complaint
Mr F complains Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave him a loan without 
carrying out proper affordability checks. 
Mr F also complains about how Lending Stream treated him when it was in contact with him 
about repaying the loan balance. Mr F says he was struggling to make his repayments and 
Lending Stream then defaulted the account. Mr F has asked for the default to be removed 
from his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr F took a loan from Lending Stream on 4 May 2017 for £200. Mr F was due to make six 
payments between June and October 2017, with his largest repayment being £84.80. Had 
Mr F made all the contractual repayments on time, and in line with the credit agreement, he 
wouldve paid Lending Stream a total of £393.60.
Mr F had some problems repaying the loan balance, and according to his credit file, Lending 
Stream placed a default on his credit file on 6 February 2019. Lending Stream confirmed 
with this Service that the loan balance was passed to a third-party collection agency at the 
start of April 2019.  
Both Mr F and Lending Stream agree the loan has now been fully repaid. This is reflected in 
the information contained on Mr Fs credit file as the record has been marked as satisfied 
from 17 April 2019. 
Lending Stream issued a final response letter (FRL). The FRL explained to
Mr F that it hadnt made an error when it granted the loan.  Lending Stream says it made 
enquires with Mr F about his income as well as his expenditure. Based on the information he 
declared, Lending Stream thought hed be able to afford the repayments he was committed 
to making. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. Firstly, she said 
that in her view, Lending Stream didnt make an error when it approved the loan. It carried 
out a proportionate check and there wasnt anything in the information Mr F gave to Lending 
Stream that wouldve led it to conclude that he was having financial difficulties. 
The adjudicator also considered what happened after the loan was granted and whether it 
was correct of Lending Stream to have defaulted the account. She also though Lending 
Stream had tried to assist Mr F by agreeing to repayment plans as well as providing 
additional time to Mr F in order to allow him to repay the loan before it defaulted the account. 
Overall, she was satisfied no error had been made. 
Lending Stream appears to have agreed with the adjudicator.
Mr F didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. In summary he said;
He understood, following the investigation that Lending Stream hadnt made an error 
when it provided the loan.
But, Mr F wanted the Ombudsman to make an exception and remove the default 
from his credit file as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr F says he was young when he took the loan and didnt understand the 
consequences of not repaying it. 
Mr F repaid the loan straightaway after the account was marked as being in default. 
He also says the defaulted amount is small and it is affecting his ability to obtain 
meaningful credit from other providers.
  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
In this case, Mr F appears to have agreed with the adjudicators findings that Lending 
Stream wasnt wrong to have advanced this loan. And I agree with the findings the 
adjudicator reached. 
Mr F, told Lending Stream he had monthly income of £1,300 with monthly outgoings of £875. 
Even with some of the adjustments that Lending Stream made to Mr Fs declared outgoings, 
he still had £354 per month to afford the largest repayment of £84.80. So, the information 
suggested that Mr F could afford the repayments that he was committed to making. 
This was Mr Fs first loan, so, in my view the checks went far enough and I dont think 
Lending Stream was wrong to have granted this loan. Ive next gone on to consider whether Lending Stream treated Mr F fairly with the repayment 
of the loan.
Recording a default
Firstly, Ive taken a look at Mr Fs repayment history and what Lending Stream likely knew at 
the time about his situation. 
Mr Fs first payment was due on 9 June 2017, this wasnt made as Lending Stream 
expected. Lending Stream, has provided us with transcripts summaries of some calls 
between itself and Mr F. Ive used these calls, because it helps gain an understanding of the 
actions that Lending Stream took and why. 
On 15 June 2017 Mr F seems to have called Lending Stream. He explained hed make up 
the missed payment and Lending Stream reinstated the direct debit. At this point, it also 
seems some sort of plan was set up. Ive seen a letter sent to Mr F, explaining that he was 
due to pay £59.20 on 23 June 2017.
Mr F didnt make the payment on 23 June 2017 as agreed, and he contacted Lending 
Stream at the start of July 2017 to let them know. A new plan was set up for Mr F on a 
following call on 23 July 2017.
What followed, based on the call notes that have been provided were a series of payment 
plans created for Mr F in November and December 2017, and looking at the statement of 
account it would seem that none of these plans were stuck too as well. 
In January 2018, due to continued non-payment of the loan account, Lending Stream issued 
a default notice. This effectivity gave Mr F another chance to make repayments towards the 
loan. He needed to either pay the full amount outlined in the notice of £340.80 or the account 
would be terminated. But the default, wouldnt be recorded if, for example, a payment plan 
could be agreed.  
Following an email in February 2018 from Mr F, Lending Stream contacted him. At this point, 
it was notified that hed changed address. A new plan was set up and a statement of account 
was sent to Mr F.  
It clear, by this point, that Lending Stream was trying to help Mr F and it was clearly trying to 
avoid the default being applied to his account. Mr F more likely than not received the default 
notice, given the date of his email to it, and that he agreed a new plan. By doing so, this 
wouldve prevented the default from being applied. 
However, after this plan, Mr F didnt make any payments to Lending Stream. Further 
telephones calls were had in March, May and June 2018. It seems Mr F was keeping 
Lending Stream updated about his financial situation and Lending Stream, was, based on 
the call notes trying to assist him in order to allow him to repay what he owed. Although, that 
didnt prevent Lending Stream issuing a further default notice in June 2018. 
No payments were made to Lending Stream and so by 14 September 2018, it sent a final 
default noticed.  Again, this explained what Mr F needed to do to avoid the account from 
being marked as defaulted on his credit file. He called Lending Stream on 24 September 
2018, at which point it seems Lending Stream sign posted Mr F to obtain some debt advice, 
because it had already set up a number of repayment plans for him. He then called in 
October 2018 to say the payment would be made the following month. No payment was 
made in November 2018. No payments were made, so Lending Stream took the decision to default the account in 
February 2019. This is the date that is reflected in Mr Fs credit file. 
Taking into account, the amount of time that had passed without Mr F making repayments 
albeit he was in regular contact with Lending Stream and plans were set up. I dont think it 
was wrong of Lending Stream to have firstly, started the process to default the account, and 
when Mr F didnt stick to the final plan that was agreed in September 2018 I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Lending Stream to have marked his account as being in default. 
This is, consistent with the guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a 
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies. 
In this guidance, it allows for accounts to be defaulted when they are normally at least six 
months in arrears. However, a default may not be applied straightaway if both parties agree 
to a repayment plan, which is what happened here. Overall, looking at this document, Im 
satisfied that Lending Stream treated Mr F fairly. The account was sufficiently in arrears and 
Lending Stream correctly notified him of its intentions to default and it fairly agreed a number 
of repayment plans. 
When no payments were made after the final promise of payment in October 2018, and its 
clear the relationship had broken down because based on the call notes no calls were either 
received or made after October 2018 to the point the account was defaulted. Therefore, 
once further time had passed, which wouldve allowed Mr F to make the payment he agreed 
to, Lending Stream defaulted the account. I dont think this was an unreasonable decision.
This is entirely correct in my view, the account was sufficiently in arrears and Lending 
Stream had given Mr F sufficient time to make the payments under the original contract as 
well as under the various payment plans that had been agreed. So, I dont think that Lending 
Stream was wrong to default the account. 
While it could be argue Lending Stream couldve recorded the default on his credit file, 
sooner then it did, in this case, the intention from Lending Stream, was to avoid that from 
happening because Mr F was in regular contact with it about his financial position.  
Ive thought about what Mr F has said, about asking for the default to be removed as a 
gesture of goodwill. But I dont think in that case it would be fair to do so. Mr F took a loan, 
and had problems repaying it, its therefore correct this should be reflected on is credit file.  
I do appreciate that the default is for a fairly small sum and hes told us about the impact this 
default has had on his ability to obtain further credit. It is of course possible, although, I cant 
be sure that there may be a combination of factors that are preventing Mr F from obtaining 
further credit. But, in this case, I cant ask for the default to be removed especially because I 
dont think Lending Stream made an error in the way it dealt with Mr F. 
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed by the outcome that Ive reached, but I hope my 
explanation has been helpful for him. 
 My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman