DRN-2315760
Complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Mr R bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint because:
Mr R says the sale took place over the phone. But Barclays says it was sold in-branch and 
has provided a copy of Mr Rs credit card application form which it says shows that it was a 
branch sale. Looking at the completed credit card application form, I can see Mr R had 
handwritten in all of his details  including personal details and details relating to his financial 
circumstances. The application form also includes a branch code. So, based on what Ive 
seen I think it is more likely than not the sale took place in-branch.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr R that the policy was optional, and it had to gain his 
consent before applying PPI to his account. Looking closely at Mr Rs credit card application 
form, under the Additional Benefits section I can see Mr R was given the option of selecting 
next to Yes or No as to whether or not he wanted Barclaycard Payment Protection added 
to his account. On Mr Rs application form, there is a tick in the Yes box, indicating he 
wanted it. Mr R has also signed the application form agreeing to its contents.
Ive noted that on the application form, Mr R also had the option of selecting whether he 
wanted other optional benefits, such as Barclaycard Card Protection and Instant Cash 
Advance. But Mr R didnt select either of these. This suggests Mr R was aware of the fact 
that he had a choice when it came to any of the additional products listed on the application 
form. So, on a balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr R agreed to the PPI knowing 
he had a choice.
Mr R says he was keen to use the credit card to consolidate his existing debt and was led to 
believe the PPI would increase his chance of being accepted for the card. He has said he 
felt pressured into taking out the PPI and he doesnt think the PPI helped his financial 
situation as it added to the overall debt he was trying to reduce.
Ive thought about what Mr R has said about what he was told at the time of sale and how he 
felt pressured into taking out the PPI. Pressure is subjective and in order for me to conclude 
that Mr R was pressured by the Barclays advisor to take out the PPI, Id need to see 
persuasive evidence to support this. Based on what Mr R has told us, and using what I know 
generally of Barclays sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that the 
Barclays advisor told Mr R that the PPI would be a good thing to have and would protect his 
repayments if he fell on hard times. I dont think this would amount to a pressured sale and 
therefore I wont be upholding this complaint on that basis.
Mr R says he didnt receive any advice from the Barclays advisor when he took out the PPI. 
Barclays, on the other hand, says the policy would have been recommended to Mr R. This 
means Barclays had to check the policy was right for him and based on what Ive seen of   
Mr Rs circumstances at the time, I think that it was right for him. He was eligible for cover 
and I cant see that he would have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover 
 such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr R says he would have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work. Hes also told us he didnt have any 
savings or other means he could have used to cover his credit card repayments if he ever 
fell on hard times. Having thought about what Mr R has told us about sick pay, I dont think 
this means Barclays was wrong to recommend the PPI to him. I say this because the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to the sick pay he would have received from his employer 
and also would have paid a benefit if he became unemployed. So, I think the PPI would have 
been useful to Mr R if he ever became too unwell to work or lost his job. It also looks like it 
was affordable. It follows that dont think Barclays was wrong to recommend the PPI to him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the 
policy could have been useful to him. So I dont think better information would have stopped 
him buying it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman