DRN-1233820
The complaint
Miss Q says Marks & Spencer Financial Services PLC (M&S) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) alongside a credit card in 2003.
What happened
Mrs Q applied for the PPI around the same time that she applied for the card. The cost of the 
policy was charged to the card based on the outstanding balance - and she'd repay the cost 
of the PPI, with interest, in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Miss Q thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 October 2019. I explained that based 
on what I'd seen I didn't think the policy was mis-sold:
I said I'd considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI was set out on our website, 
and I'd taken this into account in reaching my conclusions.
I thought Miss Q would have understood the policy was optional and that she chose 
to buy it. Based on what I'd seen, I thought Miss Q had applied for the policy at the 
same time she applied for the card, using an application form. M&S had sent us an 
example of the application form it used at that time. This suggests Miss Q needed to 
tick a box to agree to the PPI - and sign beneath this to confirm she wanted cover. 
The PPI also appeared on Miss Q's statements - and so if Miss Q didn't know she'd 
bought PPI I thought she'd have questioned this.
I didn't think M&S had recommended the policy to Miss Q, so it didn't need to check if 
it was right for her. But it did have to give Miss Q the information she'd need to work 
out for herself if she wanted it.
It was possible the information M&S gave Miss Q about the policy wasn't as clear as 
it should have been. But Miss Q opted for the policy, so she appeared to have 
wanted this sort of cover. Based on what she'd told us about her circumstances, the 
cover appears to have been useful to her. She doesn't appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. She didn't get more than statutory 
sick pay if she was off work sick, and she said she'd otherwise have needed to rely 
on help from family to meet her repayments. This policy would have repaid 15% of 
the balance each month if she'd made a successful claim. So I didn't think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off buying the policy.
This meant M&S didn't need to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Miss Q.
 
But M&S had offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss Q:
M&S had got a high level of commission and profit share from selling the PPI - and 
so it should have told Miss Q about that. Because it didn't tell Miss Q, this was unfair.
To put that right, M&S paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I thought that was fair in this case.
 I said I'd consider any further comments I received by 1 November 2019.
Miss Q's representatives say they received my provisional decision. But neither they nor 
M&S have sent me anything further to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither M&S nor Miss Q have sent me anything further to consider, I reach the same 
findings for the same reasons.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss Q.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back to Miss Q any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman