DRN-2636617
The complaint
Mr M complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly recorded a home insurance claim 
against him on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE)
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Insurers have a duty to make a record of any incident they are made aware of - 
whether it leads to a claim or not. When an insurer is made aware of an incident that 
could potentially lead to a claim, or a claim is initiated, but not completed, its usually 
recorded as notification only on CUE
The policy terms also make it clear AXA may use personal information and exchange 
it with other organisations. This is common within insurance policies
Ive listened to the initial call between Mr M and AXA. I can see Mr M asked several 
questions about his policy. But while I can understand his feeling that the purpose of 
his call was to make an enquiry, Mr M asked specifically about making a claim. And 
when the advisor asked if he wanted them to log a claim over the phone, Mr M 
confirmed he was happy to do so
Although Mr M later didnt follow through with the claim, it had been initiated. So I 
think AXA have recorded the incident correctly 
Mr M said his no claims discount has been affected by AXA recording the incident on 
CUE. Ive seen screen shots from AXA that satisfy me the discount was still available 
on their system
Mr M says he will need to declare this to new insurers, and it will affect future 
premiums. Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and 
apply their own commercial judgement when deciding what to charge in order to 
cover that risk. But I cant hold AXA responsible for this
Ive also noted Mr Ms request for our service to direct AXA to establish a line for 
general enquiries. Our service has the power to direct businesses to take action in 
relation to individual complaints, but not to direct how their business operates 
generally
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman