DRN-3569844
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing 
her overdraft limit when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss P complained to Lloyds that it acted irresponsibly by allowing her to increase her 
overdraft limit on a number of occasions. She says the increase in limits was unaffordable 
for her and the charges caused her financial difficulty.  Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. 
And as Miss P was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Lloyds 
ought to have realised that Miss P was experiencing financial difficulty by 3 June 2015 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Lloyds didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Miss Ps overdraft limit to £550 on 3 June 2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear 
that Miss P was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
By this point, Miss P was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. Lloyds own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
Miss P was already clearly struggling to manage her existing overdraft limit with Lloyds when 
it once again agreed to increase her limit a further £150 to £550. A cursory look at her 
statements show she wasnt able to bring down the overdraft from the limit she already had. 
The statements show that even after Miss Ps salary was paid that once she had paid her 
bills, she would fall back into overdraft within days.
So I think that Miss Ps overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that 
Miss P wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Miss Ps overdraft usage and instead increased her 
limit and continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds 
didnt treat Miss P fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ps complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Buying back the debt which has been sold to a third party. Following this, Lloyds 
should re-work Miss Ps current overdraft balance so that any additional interest, 
fees and charges applied as a result of the overdraft limit increases from 3 June 
2015 onwards are removed. This means that from 3 June 2015 onwards interest 
can only be charged on first £400 of any overdrawn balance.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss P to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ps 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 3 June 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman