DRN-3252480
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs F complain about how National House-Building Council dealt with a claim they 
made under a Buildmark warranty policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat them 
again here. Instead I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision focuses on events that happened after NHBC issued a previous complaint 
response on 11 May 2018, to the date of its most recent response of 10 May 2021.
I understand Mr C and Mrs F have strong views about what has happened and have lost 
faith in NHBC and, the quality of the works that were completed on its behalf. I want to 
assure them Ive read and considered carefully everything theyve said. However, my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This 
isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single 
point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mr C and Mrs F, and by NHBC, to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The decision I need to make is whether the £500 compensation offered by NHBC is 
adequate to make up for the trouble and upset Mr C and Mrs F were caused by NHBCs 
actions. I think it is and Ill explain why. 
NHBC upheld Mr C and Mrs Fs complaint, it admitted it had poorly communicated 
with them and there had been delays in the progression of the claim. It also 
acknowledged that previous repairs had failed which had required reattendance and 
that there had been issues with contractors attending. 
The role of this service isnt to make awards that are punitive in nature and generally 
they tend to be relatively modest in amount. And it doesnt make awards in the same 
way a court would do, such as awarding damages for example. 
I understand Mr C and Mrs F are unhappy with the way repairs were carried out at 
their property, and I agree it would have been frustrating for them to have realised 
those repairs had failed. Sometimes repairs do fail, and more work is required. This 
doesnt however mean I would automatically award or increase compensation 
because of this.  
It isnt my role to determine whether NHBCs contractors should have taken 
alternative action in the first instance. What I would expect to see happen, and what 
did happen, is NHBC investigated the concerns Mr C and Mrs F raised and sought to 
put them right. 
I agree the claim journey wasnt smooth, communication with them could have been 
clearer and timelier, and there were delays, which were also impacted by the Covid-
19 pandemic and the various restrictions associated with that. But, Im also mindful 
NHBC has admitted its failings here.
Mr C has asked to be awarded loss of earnings to compensate for the time he had to 
wait around for contractors on multiple occasions. He hasnt provided evidence of the 
losses he incurred, but I dont think that makes a difference to my decision here. As 
acknowledged above, sometimes repairs fail, for whatever reason, but I would be 
looking to see what NHBC did to put matters right. I dont think it was foreseeable to 
NHBC the repairs would fail and therefore while I acknowledge it was inconvenient to 
Mr C and Mrs F to make sure someone was available at the property, I wouldnt look 
to award loss of earnings in a circumstance such as this. 
Having considered everything, I think the compensation offered by NHBC is fair and 
reasonable and reflects the trouble and upset Mr C and Mrs F were caused by its 
poor service. I wont therefore be asking it to increase this amount.  
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr C and Mrs Fs complaint against National House-
Building Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman