DRN-2495423
The complaint
Mr J says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan MoneyBoat provided to Mr J in October 2018. 
The loan was for £400 and it was to be repaid in four instalments, the highest being £157.99. 
Mr J struggled to repay this loan and a reduced payment plan was agreed with MoneyBoat. 
Mr J was unable to sustain this and MoneyBoat took him to court where a judgement was 
made against him. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. Mr J disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Js financial difficulties and the hardships hes endured. Weve 
set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
MoneyBoat asked Mr J for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr J said his monthly income was £1,555. Mr J provided information about his 
outgoings and MoneyBoat calculated that he had a monthly disposable income of £755. 
Given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Js circumstances at the time and his 
history with MoneyBoat, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything 
in the information Mr J provided or the information MoneyBoat shouldve been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr J was saying. 
I think MoneyBoats affordability checks for Mr Js loan were proportionate and sufficient. 
From the information Mr J provided, the loan looked affordable for him. So I cant say that it 
was wrong for MoneyBoat to have approved this loan. 
I can see from the information that Mr J has provided, that he was borrowing extensively 
from other lenders when he asked MoneyBoat for a loan. And I can see that he had negative 
information on his credit file. But I cant see that MoneyBoats checks found this. 
I accept that Mr Js actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information MoneyBoat obtained. And Mr Js actual financial position 
might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been 
obtained. 
But MoneyBoat could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr J, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Mr J. 
In these circumstances, I dont think MoneyBoat needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think MoneyBoat carried out reasonable checks even though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mr Js actual financial 
position. 
MoneyBoat relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayment involved, together with Mr Js declared income and Mr J only taking one loan, I 
think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman