DRN-3561492
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about a failed CHAPS transfer by The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc (RBS).
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W say they asked RBS to transfer funds from their RBS account to an 
account they held with a separate bank. They say the first transfer was attempted 
electronically but wasnt successful, so the second transfer was carried out manually, but 
this also wasnt successful  and its the second transfer theyre complaining about. Mrs W 
and Mr W say, to ensure the CHAPS transfer details were correct, they carried out a Faster 
Payment one day prior to the second transfer and this was successful. Mrs W and Mr W say, 
because the second transfer wasnt successful, they then had to make nine Faster 
Payments to transfer the funds. Mrs W and Mr W then complained to RBS. RBS explained 
they carried out the transfer in line with the paper request made by Mrs W and Mr W. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs W and Mr W. He thought there hadnt been any 
errors by RBS in relation to the transfer. Mrs W and Mr W disagreed so the matter has come 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs W and Mr W will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ive seen a copy of the CHAPS payment request form which has been signed by Mr W. This 
includes details of the beneficiary bank, sort code and account number. RBS have provided 
the SWIFT payment message showing the outbound transfer. The information here matches 
the details showing on the payment request form in relation to the beneficiary bank and 
account number. The SWIFT payment message doesnt show the sort code so I understand 
why Mrs W and Mr W queried this. But, the SWIFT payment message contains a payment 
reference and RBS have provided audit details linked to the payment reference which shows 
the sort code and this matches the sort code on the payment request form. Im persuaded 
the audit details relate to the transaction in question as the payment reference appears on 
there. So, I believe its more likely than not that RBS did use the sort code shown on the 
payment request form when transferring the funds. 
The SWIFT payment message also shows a return code. Ive looked on SWIFTs website 
and this shows the return code relates to Identification of end customer is not consistent 
with associated account number. RBS also say the beneficiary bank told them the reason 
for rejecting the payment was because the account name and number differed. Im 
persuaded this was the case as its supported by the return code reason. I can see Mrs W 
and Mr W complained to the beneficiary bank and their response says RBS didnt include 
the sort code when making the second payment and this is why the funds were returned. 
Where evidence is inconclusive or contradictory  as some of it is in this case - Ill make my 
decision on the balance of probability, thats to say what I consider more likely to have 
happened. Ill also keep in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable to both parties.
In this case, from the information Ive seen, and in particular the SWIFT payment message, 
audit details and the return code, I believe its more likely than not RBS did include the sort 
code. I can see Mrs W and Mr W point out that the SWIFT payment message they received 
from RBS shows their account number at the recipient bank but not the sort code. I have 
considered this but Im not persuaded this alone suggests the sort code wasnt used, 
particularly when I weigh this up against the information Ive seen which shows that it was 
used in the transfer and the information Ive seen relating to the return code.    
I understand Mrs W and Mr W will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why a consumer 
will want to know specifically who is at fault if theres a problem. But, despite there being 
conflicting accounts, I havent seen any evidence there has been an error by RBS. I wish to 
reassure Mrs W and Mr W Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I understand Mrs W and Mr W are concerned RBS didnt respond to three emails following 
their complaint response. RBS say the further emails didnt warrant a reactivation of the 
complaint so no further action was taken. I do understand why Mrs W and Mr W will have 
been frustrated at not receiving a response, but complaint handling isnt a regulated or other 
covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the complaint is solely about 
complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. Where complaint handling forms 
a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into account complaint handling when 
looking at the overall customer experience. In this case, I cant say the issues which Mrs W 
and Mr W raise about the complaints handling are an extension of the issues which relate to 
regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint handling part of the complaint.      
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman