DRN-3298168
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that HSBC added a CIFAS marker to his record which resulted in his bank 
accounts elsewhere being closed. He said this had a substantial impact on his wellbeing and 
university studies and he is seeking compensation from HSBC.
What happened
HSBC received several claims of fraud against Mr Os account in 2019. Following this it 
decided to close his account and add a CIFAS marker to his records, in July 2019. 
On 02 February 2021, Mr O contacted HSBC to say his account, with a different bank, had 
been closed and he wasnt able to open another one. Hed found out that the marker HSBC 
had added was the reason for this and so raised a complaint. 
HSBC looked into things and provided its final response on 23 February 2021 to say it would 
remove the CIFAS marker and pay £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr O explained in more detail the impact the CIFAS marker and account closure (of the 
other account) had had on him. He said: 
- Hed been studying for his final year at university and having his bank account 
closed became overwhelming and he fell into depression leading to suicidal 
thoughts. And, as Covid-19 hit he also had to self-isolate at this time. He went 
several weeks with no bank account and was in isolation  which resulted in him 
not eating for weeks and he continued to not eat properly.
- Hes been left traumatised and is still suffering the effects months later  hes 
now clinically diagnosed with depression and anxiety because of the bank 
closure, and missed out on his entire final year of studies. Hes repeating his final 
year of studies and is seeking for HSBC to pay his student accommodation fees 
which he says amount to £6,500.
- He says he shouldnt be expected to pay fees to repeat a year which was ruined 
by HSBC.
- He had no source of income and no way of accessing funds for five months.
- Mr O said whilst he was grateful for HSBC removing the marker, he felt £525 
would be a reasonable amount of compensation. He said he had to repay a £125 
student hardship loan and so the higher compensation amount would leave him 
with £400. He said this would compensate him £100 for every month he was 
without an account and provided an additional £100 for the impact on his mental 
health. 
HSBC considered Mr Os further comments and decided to increase its offer to £525 as the 
maximum compensation it would provide. HSBC credited Mr Os account with the £525 in 
full and final settlement of his complaint. Mr O responded to say he was still suffering with 
his mental health and, after speaking with his university, felt the amount in compensation still 
wasnt fair as his grades were affected and says HSBCs error was mainly to blame.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr O brought his complaint to our service. In doing so he 
provided correspondence with the university during the time he says he was without an 
account and his mental health was impacted. He said hes seeking £6,500 to cover his 
university accommodation fees for re-taking his last year.
One of our investigators looked into things and said:
- As a result of the CIFAS marker Mr O was without a bank account for several 
weeks.
- HSBC has since accepted it shouldnt have applied the CIFAS marker.
- He considered the impact of the marker and account closure on Mr O and felt it 
was significant and still impacting him now. 
- Mr O had attempted to mitigate his circumstances by going to his Student Union 
for support. He was given cash to use for essentials  which was challenging in 
and of itself due to the restrictions in place as a result of Covid, to make face to 
face transactions, using cash.
He recommended that HSBC pay a further £500 in compensation to Mr O to reflect all of the 
above. He considered Mr Os claim for £6,500 of accommodation fees but didnt think it 
would be fair to ask HSBC to pay these. He said he couldnt reasonably conclude that 
HSBCs error was the sole reason Mr O had needed to re-sit his final year of university. And 
whilst he didnt doubt the marker had been a factor there were a lot of different things that 
could have contributed to this.
HSBC agreed but Mr O didnt. He said he was left without a bank account for over five 
months which was his whole first semester of university. He stood by the amount of 
compensation he was requesting from HSBC. He said the investigator had agreed that 
HSBC had wrongly added the CIFAS marker and he therefore felt it should be held 
responsible for the damage caused. He said he was seeking £6,500 plus the £500 in 
compensation. 
As Mr O didnt accept the recommendations by the investigator the complaint was passed to 
me. 
In the course of my investigation, I have asked Mr O for additional information and evidence 
to support his claim for compensation. And Ive spoken to Mr O about the impact these 
events have had on him. 
Mr O has provided emails between him and his university about extending deadlines for 
coursework as well contact with the mental health support team at the university. Hes also 
provided evidence of his partner helping him pay his rent and some small payments for food 
during this time. He says he tried to open accounts elsewhere and has provided some 
evidence to show the accounts he opened, which he then says were later closed. 
Ive taken all of this into account when reaching my final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the compensation recommended by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and Ill explain why.HSBC took action following reports of fraud on Mr Os account and I can see that there was 
some contact between Mr O and HSBC at this time. This resulted in HSBC not being 
satisfied with Mr Os responses and it deciding to close his account and add a CIFAS marker 
in July 2019. 
Mr O didnt contact HSBC again until 02 February 2021 when he says his account elsewhere 
had been closed and he couldnt open another account. Hed discovered this was due to the 
CIFAS marker HSBC had added.
HSBC ultimately decided to remove the CIFAS marker and said this was an error and 
recognised this would have had some impact on Mr O, offering £250 in compensation at the 
time. As the marker was removed by HSBC, I havent considered whether it was correct to 
add it in the first instance but given the claims it received and records of the responses Mr O 
gave I can see why it might be reasonable to conclude it took the action that it did at the 
time. . But Ive gone on to consider Mr Os comments and evidence carefully when thinking 
about the impact of the CIFAS marker on his circumstances.
Length of time without access to funds
Mr O contacted HSBC on 02 February and by 23 February 2021 it had responded to say it 
would remove the marker. So Im satisfied that HSBC acted within a reasonable time frame 
when reviewing the marker and deciding to remove it, once Mr O raised a complaint.
Mr O has said several times that he was without an account or access to funds for five 
months. But Ive also seen hes said this was only for two weeks, in correspondence with his 
university. I havent seen enough evidence to conclusively say exactly how long Mr O was 
without an account.
Its also not clear when Mr Os other bank account was closed and what happened following 
this. For example, we dont know what the other bank said when the account was closed, 
how quickly he contacted his bank to query the closure, what he was told, and what was 
discussed about accessing any funds in that account.
 
Mr O has provided a response from his bank to show he appealed the account closure and 
received a response in January 2021. But that doesnt establish whether, up until that point, 
any delays were on Mr Os part or his banks, in trying to resolve this issue. 
 
I appreciate Mr O was without an account for at least some time and this would have been 
distressing and inconvenient for him. But it seems likely that the length of time Mr O was 
without access to funds isnt as a direct result of his interactions with HSBC. So I dont think 
it would be fair to hold HSBC responsible for that as I can see it reviewed and removed the 
marker within 21 days. 
I can see he did try to open bank accounts elsewhere and he says these were later closed 
as a result of the marker. And although he hasnt provided evidence of the accounts being 
closed, I think its possible that the banks decided to do so following checks and discovering 
the CIFAS marker. So I accept Mr O would have had trouble in opening an account 
elsewhere. Generally speaking, and without making any finding against any other account 
provider Mr O may have approached, a bank isnt meant to decline an account solely based 
on a CIFAS marker being present. And Mr O ought to have been able to open at least a 
basic bank account. Other banks not following those standards is outside of HSBCs control.  
I also acknowledge that this all occurred during a global pandemic, which placed additional 
restrictions on the public in general, and would have made using cash more difficult for Mr O. I can also see that his partner was also able to pay his rent on his behalf and there are some 
other payments made for him/by him as well.  So Mr O was able to make some alternative 
arrangements, in light of his account being closed, to mitigate his situation. And Mr O says 
he was able to obtain a cash loan from his Student Union as well to help pay for a few 
things. So he was able to limit the impact of the marker and lack of bank account to some 
extent.
Impacts of these events
Mr O has said the long-lasting impacts of all of this means he was diagnosed with 
depression and failed his final year of university. But I can see from correspondence Mr O 
has provided that he had been suffering with his well-being and mental health before these 
events occurred. In one piece of correspondence dated January 2021 he said hed been 
living with depression for the previous 8 months. So Im not persuaded that the marker was 
the sole factor for Mr Os well-being at the time. Although I acknowledge it would have an 
impact on his mental health, given the difficulties it then caused (which I have mentioned 
above) but I dont think it would be fair to say it was sole factor. 
Mr O says this all caused him to fail his final year of university. But I cant reasonably 
conclude that HSBCs error was the sole reason Mr O needed to re-sit his final year of 
university. And whilst I dont doubt the marker had an impact on Mr O, there are a lot of 
different elements that could have contributed to this. Im satisfied the consequence of this is 
too remote from the error by HSBC for it to be something the bank should reasonably 
compensate Mr O for.
Compensation
In total, Mr O has received £525 from HSBC and the investigator recommended a further 
£500, which HSBC has accepted as a resolution to the complaint. Taking everything into 
account, I think a total of £1,025 in compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I think this fairly takes into account: 
- the impact that the marker had on Mr O being able to access funds and a bank 
account, with not all of those delays being attributable to HSBC; and 
- the impact this had on his well-being, whilst not being the only factor at the time. 
I dont think it would be fair to award compensation to cover the cost of Mr Os university 
accommodation fees. I believe these are too remote and do not directly flow from the error 
made by HSBC and could not have reasonably been contemplated as result of the marker 
being added in the first place. 
Putting things right
I direct HSBC to pay Mr O:
 
- the additional £500 compensation it agreed to following the investigators opinion. 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct HSBC to pay Mr O the above compensation but 
do not recommend that it pays anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman