DRN-3902212
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs K complain that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) declined their 
request to make a partial withdrawal from a Guaranteed Growth Bond.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs K have a Guaranteed Growth Bond and Premium Bonds with NS&I. 
Previously, NS&I allowed customers to withdraw funds from its Guaranteed Growth Bond by 
paying a penalty of 90 days interest. In November 2020 NS&I wrote to Mr G and Mrs K to 
say their existing Guaranteed Growth Bond was due to mature and the interest rate would 
end on 23 December 2020. The letter explained that NS&I had changed the way the 
Guaranteed Growth Bond operated and that no withdrawals would be allowed during the 
whole of the new three year term. The new Guaranteed Growth Bond came into effect in 
December 2020. Mr G and Mrs Ks Premium Bonds could be cashed in at any time. 
Last year, Mr G and Mrs K contacted NS&I and explained they intended to purchase a new 
home and wanted to take out some of the funds held in the Guaranteed Growth Bond. Over 
the course of several months, NS&I corresponded with Mr G and Mrs K. NS&I advised that 
the terms of the Guaranteed Growth Bond had changed when it renewed in December 2020 
and didnt allow a partial withdrawal. NS&I said it could only approve a withdrawal in full in 
exceptional circumstances  like financial difficulties. But NS&I said it would expect to see 
the Premium Bonds cashed in before it considered closing the Guaranteed Growth Bond 
and paying out the funds. 
NS&I later agree to pay out the entire Guaranteed Growth Bond and asked Mr G and Mrs K 
for their bank details. But NS&I didnt offer to complete a partial withdrawal. 
Mr G and Mrs K complained to NS&I and said they were unable to move on with the 
intended purchase as a result of being unable to withdraw funds from the Guaranteed 
Growth Bond. NS&I sent Mr G and Mrs K a final response but didnt agree it had made a 
mistake or acted unfairly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr G and Mrs Ks complaint. They thought NS&I had 
correctly applied the account terms and confirmed a partial withdrawal wasnt possible. The 
investigator didnt ask NS&I to take further action and Mr G and Mrs K asked to appeal. As a 
result, their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G and Mrs K had previously held a Guaranteed Growth Bond product that 
allowed them to complete partial withdrawals. But when the Guaranteed Growth Bond rolled 
into a new three year term in December 2020 the terms and conditions changed. From that 
point, partial withdrawals werent allowed and the funds had to remain in place for the full 
three year term. Ive looked at the information NS&I sent out in November 2020 that set out 
how the new Guaranteed Growth Bond operates. 
On the first page, towards the top, theres a box that says Weve made important changes 
to NS&I Guaranteed Growth Bonds  If you decide to renewed, you wont be able to cash it 
in before the new maturity date  youll need to hold the Bond for the full term. The 
information is clearly displayed and confirms NS&Is claim withdrawals cant be made during 
the three year term. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G and Mrs K but Im satisfied NS&I correctly applied the account 
terms and that theres no provision for partial withdrawals during the three year term of the 
Guaranteed Growth Bond. 
NS&I advised it will allow customers to complete a full withdrawal in certain exceptional 
circumstances. The example its given to us is financial difficulties. I can see there was a lot 
of back and forth between Mr G and Mrs K and NS&I. And NS&I ultimately agreed to allow 
the full bond funds to be cashed in. But Mr G and Mrs K only wanted to withdraw part of the 
bond funds and didnt proceed. Whilst I understand Mr G and Mrs K wanted to retain the 
majority of their funds in the Guaranteed Growth Bond, Im satisfied NS&I offered to act 
outside of its account terms and made a reasonable offer to withdraw them in full. I havent 
been persuaded that NS&I acted unfairly in the way it dealt with Mr G and Mrs K. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G and Mrs K. But as Im satisfied NS&I dealt with their 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr G and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman