DRN-1606480
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with MBNA Limited, and the way a credit card was sold to him. He 
explained the advert for the card was mis-leading. And it led him to take out the card when 
he otherwise wouldn't have.
What happened
Mr S applied for and took out a credit card in May 2019. He explained he did this through a 
comparison website - and chose the card MBNA were offering, because of the advert he 
saw for it.
Mr S noted that the advert said that the credit card was to be interest free on any purchases 
made within the first 15 months of having the card. And because he was looking to purchase 
a house, he wanted to put large purchases on the card during this time. 
In November 2019 MBNA wrote to Mr S, and explained it had noticed an error in the 
advertising for the card. It said that the advert hadn't been clear in explaining the terms of 
the agreement. Rather than any purchases made on the card within 15 months being 
interest free, the card instead offered 0% interest, for a period of 15 months, on any 
purchases made within the first 60 days of the account being opened.
MBNA apologised for this error. It said that because the error was its fault, it would honour 
0% interest for a period of 15 months, on any purchases made between the May and 
November 2019 in Mr S case. And it would also allow any purchases within the next 30 
days to benefit from this offer too. It said after that 30 day period interest would be applied as 
per the terms of the agreement.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said that he wouldn't have taken the credit card out if he 
had known the offer wasnt as advertised. And he said he now couldn't sort the problem by 
taking out another credit card  because he was applying for a mortgage, and this would 
affect the lending decision made. Because Mr S disagreed with MBNAs proposed way to 
resolve the complaint, he referred the matter to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. She said the 
offer MBNA had made was fair. And she noted the actual credit card agreement Mr S signed 
did correctly explain the correct interest free offer. So, Mr S should have been aware of the 
terms of the account at that point. 
Because Mr S didn't agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA has accepted it advertised the product incorrectly. As above, it said the advert had 
explained the card would offer 0% interest, on any purchases made for the first 15 months of taking out the card. But this wasn't right. Instead, the terms of the account were that any 
purchases made within the first 60 days of the account opening, would benefit from a 15 
month interest free period. 
Because MBNA has accepted the mistake it made here, I dont need to investigate this 
further. Its clear there was an error in the advert, and all parties accept this.
So, Ive needed to think about whether MBNA has taken fair and reasonable steps to put its 
error right. Ive considered all points both parties have made. And, having done so, Im 
satisfied MBNA has acted fairly in the way it has offered to correct the mistake in this case.
As above, the advert was incorrect. But, having looked at the credit card agreement Mr S 
signed when he took out the card, I can see the right terms and conditions were clearly 
explained at that point. And Mr S wouldn't have been able to take the credit card out without 
reading and signing this.
On the initial pages of the credit agreement a table was shown, highlighting that purchases 
made within 60 days would benefit from 0% interest for 15 months. And the standard interest 
fees following that point were detailed below. So, I think on reading this document Mr S 
should have been aware the interest rate wasn't as first thought.
Thats not to say I think MBNA acted correctly in respect of the misinformation given in the 
advert. I dont. But I do also think the terms and conditions in the credit agreement were 
important and signing these confirms theyve been read, and the terms agreed. So, I cant 
ignore this when coming to my decision. At this point, if Mr S didn't agree to the terms, the 
document shouldn't have been signed and therefore progressed. So, I think both parties 
could have acted differently here.
I think it is reasonable MBNA take some steps to rectify some misinformation it gave in the 
advert. But I dont think it should honour the whole interest free period. As above, the correct 
information was in the binding documents. And once MBNA realised its mistake, it wrote to 
its customers to rectify this. 
MBNA has agreed to honour the interest free period, from May 2019 when Mr S took the 
product out  until December 2019  a month after it realised its mistake. I think this a 
reasonable way to address the error. 
I say this because MBNAs offer made sure Mr S wasn't at a detriment for anything he had 
already spent, on the understanding of a longer interest free period. And it allowed Mr S a 
further month to spend and take advantage of the offer, if there was planned spending, that 
he wanted to complete during this time. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that MBNA Limited's offer is reasonable. So, I don't 
require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman