DRN-3597371
The complaint
Miss S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt tell her about a balance transfer fee when 
she opened a credit card account.
What happened
Miss S says she made a balance transfer to Sainsburys in August/September 2021. She 
says she later found out she had been charged a balance transfer fee which was not 
reasonably brought to her attention before she made the transfer. Miss S says she closed 
the account when she found out about the charge and would like it refunded.
Sainsburys says it makes clear during the application process that there is a balance 
transfer fee and says the account terms and conditions also say that a balance transfer fee 
will depend on your offer. It says for customers to call it for the details. Sainsburys says it 
asked Miss S for late payment fees and says it has now registered a default on the account.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the account opening process made it clear a balance transfer fee would 
be charged and thought the terms and conditions also directed a customer to contact 
Sainsburys about the amount.
Miss S doesnt accept that view and says the account was opened via a third-party website. 
She says the online application may have timed out before any balance transfer fee was 
mentioned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the online application process Miss S must have followed to have 
opened this Sainsburys account and at the account terms and conditions. Having done so 
Im satisfied that Miss Ss account offer that she chose and applied for, made clear there 
was a balance transfer fee charged. Im also satisfied that information was contained under 
a large heading called Balance transfer fee and the screen had to be viewed before the 
application could proceed. So, Im satisfied Sainsburys did make reasonably clear before 
the agreement there was a fee and made clear in the account terms and conditions there 
was also a fee for which customers could ask it for the exact amount. It follows that I dont 
think Sainsburys made a mistake or acted unfairly by charging the fee.
I appreciate Miss S says the application process or screens she saw timed out before she 
could have seen any balance transfer information. But I think it likely that the balance 
transfer charge details were contained throughout the process and would have to been seen 
before the application could be submitted. It follows that although this complaint is not about 
the later events, I cant see that Sainsburys have made a mistake by asking Miss S to pay 
the fee and by applying late payment fees as well as defaulting the account.
Overall, Im satisfied that sufficient information about the balance transfer fee was 
reasonably made clear to applicants before and after the account opening process, and so I 
cant order Sainsburys to refund that fee here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman