DRN-1834065
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) provided poor service to him and paid out 
too much when it settled a third partys claim against his commercial motor insurance policy. 
 
What happened
A driver employed by Mr G reversed one of the businesss vans from stationary into the car 
parked behind it. Mr G later saw the damage, which he thought was minimal, and took 
photos of it. The other drivers insurer later provided an engineers report that said the car 
wasnt roadworthy and that repairs would cost £1,167.71. Mr G thought that was excessive, 
but in a call with UKI he accepted that UKI had to settle the claim. 
Mr G was told subsequently that the other driver and a passenger had made personal injury 
claims, so the total sum UKI paid out was around £24,000. Mr G thought the personal injury 
claims were fraudulent. He said he wouldnt have agreed to settle the claim for damage to 
the car had he known about the injury claims. He thought the excessive sum for repairs 
might be seen as supporting the fact that personal injuries might have occurred. He said that 
wasnt possible, given how minor the contact between the vehicles was. Mr G also said it 
was wrong for UKI not to look at the photos hed taken and not to interview the vans driver.
One of our investigators considered Mr Gs complaint. He said UKI had to decide what the 
most likely outcome would be should it defend the claim in court. The details provided in 
support of the other drivers case included an engineers report and medical evidence. So he 
thought UKIs decision was reasonable. He noted that it hadnt told Mr G about the personal 
injury claims as soon as it knew about them (for which it had offered him £75 compensation).  
But he didnt think it would have made any difference to the outcome had it done so. 
Mr G sent the investigator the photos hed taken on the day of the accident. The investigator 
said he could see why Mr G thought the claim had been inflated. But he thought the 
engineers report and the medical reports would have greater weight should the case go to 
court. He said UKI had told him the photos werent accepted and the driver wasnt 
interviewed as that evidence only related to liability, which wasnt disputed. He also said that 
the cost of the claim was unlikely to have any impact on Mr Gs future premiums, as most 
insurers look at the number of fault claims that have been recorded instead. 
Mr G later told the investigator that the photos showed water marks in the damage. He 
thought that proved there was pre-existing damage to the front of the car, as it hadnt been 
raining on the day of the accident. As Mr G had also taken photos of pre-existing damage 
elsewhere on the car, he thought it was probably unroadworthy prior to the accident. The 
investigator said wed need an engineers report on that issue. But he didnt think it would 
make any difference, given that the driver and Mr G had accepted liability for the accident.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There was no dispute about liability for the accident or how it happened, so I dont think 
there was any need for UKI to interview Mr Gs driver. Hed only just started to move the van 
when it hit the other drivers stationary vehicle, so the impact was at a very low speed. But 
the moving van was still capable of causing damage, and not all damage is immediately 
visible or apparent in photos.  
Mr G found it hard to believe that over £1,000 of damage was done, but that isnt a large 
sum for repairs done by a reputable garage and guaranteed by an insurer. I dont think the 
fact that there may have been pre-existing damage all over the car is relevant, as UKI still 
had to consider the damage done during the incident by someone insured on its policy. 
Thats all it agreed to pay for. Mr G didnt provide an engineers report about the pre-existing 
damage, the cars roadworthiness prior to the accident or the water marks.  
The major sum paid out by UKI was for the personal injury claims made by the other driver 
and the passenger. Mr G doesnt think any damage to them could have resulted from such a 
minor incident. But UKI was presented with expert evidence from medical practitioners. It 
seems the driver and the passenger had just taken their seatbelts off when the accident 
happened. So the impact on them from the collision may have been greater than might 
otherwise have been the case. 
 
As liability for the accident wasnt disputed, UKI decided it had to settle the claims for 
damage to the car and for the resulting personal injuries to the driver and the passenger. 
The only alternative would have been to defend the claims in court. I think it was reasonable 
for UKI to conclude that it wouldnt have a reasonable prospect of doing so successfully. 
Insurers decisions are based on their knowledge and experience of similar claims, as well 
as on the circumstances of the claim in question. I think UKI considered all the options 
before making its decision. 
I understand why Mr G is incredulous about the sum UKI paid out, given the limited amount 
of damage that appeared to have been done to the other drivers car. But it wouldnt have 
been in UKIs interests to settle the matter unless it was sure there was no reasonable 
alternative. And under the terms of the policy, it has the right to decide how to deal with any 
claim as it sees fit. We only interfere with an insurers right to exercise that discretion if we 
think it has acted unreasonably in doing so. I dont think thats the case here. 
  
Despite Mr Gs dissatisfaction with UKIs decision, its very unlikely to have had any effect on 
his premiums. As the incident was always going to be recorded as a fault claim, Mr Gs 
premiums would have risen no matter how small the sum paid out by UKI was. And 
prospective insurers usually consider the number of claims made against a policy, rather 
than the cost of a particular claim. 
 
I think UKI should have advised Mr G that the other driver and his passenger had made 
personal injury claims promptly, as a matter of courtesy. But I dont think it would have made 
any difference to the outcome had it done so, given the medical evidence. UKI didnt need 
Mr Gs permission to settle any of the claims. It would have done so whether he objected or 
not, in line with its rights under  the policy. But it paid Mr G compensation for its oversight in 
not advising him about the personal injury claims, which I think was reasonable. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr G has shown that the claims were fraudulent, 
or that UKI acted unreasonably in dealing with them, so I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman