DRN-2895621
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about the repossession of his house by Lloyds Bank PLC. He is 
unhappy that Lloyds didnt sell the property when he wanted it to, and this meant that the 
property deteriorated and the sale price was lower than it should have been. 
What happened
Mr W told us that following a marital breakdown he moved out of the property in 2015. His 
ex-wife stayed in the property with the plan that shed pay the mortgage for the remaining 
five years of the term, then the house would be sold and the equity split between them. 
However, she stopped paying the mortgage and moved out.  The last mortgage payment 
was made in June 2015.
Lloyds contact notes of conversations with Mr W indicate that his ex-wife and her new 
partner were living in the property until at least the end of November 2015. It was not until 
July 2016 that Mr W told Lloyds the property was empty and had been for some time. In both 
2016 and 2017 Mr W told Lloyds that his ex-wife was refusing to allow the sale of the 
property. 
Mr W was declared bankrupt in late 2016.
The property was repossessed in September 2017 and was sold in December 2017.
In May 2020 Lloyds wrote to Mr W to inform him that his mortgage was included in a 
remediation exercise it had done  the delayed possession review. Lloyds acknowledged 
that the repossession happened later than it should have done and as a result it refunded 
the litigation costs plus interest. It also invited him to put forward any other losses he felt hed 
suffered because of the delay. Mr W explained about the stress hed been under at the time 
and that this had caused him to file for bankruptcy. He asked for the associated fee of £680 
to be reimbursed.
Lloyds calculated the amount of additional interest that had been paid on the account 
between 8 July 2016 (when it was told the property was empty) and the sale of the property 
on 14 December 2017. To this it added simple interest from the date of the sale to the 
calculation date in July 2020. Tax was deducted and the resultant sum halved, as it was a 
joint mortgage. Lloyds then added £250 to the total for the upset Mr W had been caused by 
the delay in repossessing the property and the costs of providing it with evidence. It paid 
Mr W just over £900. However, it declined to pay the cost of the bankruptcy. 
Mr W wasnt happy that Lloyds wouldnt reimburse the bankruptcy costs. He also thought the 
sale value would have been lower because of the delay and the damage his ex-wife had had 
the opportunity to cause. He complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds responded to Mr Ws complaint. Lloyds didnt consider that it was possible for it to 
have sold the property earlier and the sale price would have been the best it could achieve 
at the time. As for Mr Ws request to be reimbursed the bankruptcy fee, it declined. It said 
that it didnt think the bankruptcy was as a direct result of the delayed repossession, but 
rather as a result of Mr Ws wider and personal circumstances, as well as his financial 
situation at the time. 
Mr W was unhappy with Lloyds decision and referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
was satisfied that it hadnt been unreasonable for Lloyds not to have started repossession 
proceedings in late 2015 given the property was still being lived in and the mortgage 
payments had only been missed for a relatively short period. Lloyds had accepted that it 
should have started these processes when Mr W told it the property was empty and it had 
paid appropriate redress in the circumstances. In relation to the bankruptcy costs, she wasnt 
persuaded that the property being repossessed in 2016 would have prevented Mr Ws 
bankruptcy happening as she hadnt seen any evidence that the equity released would have 
cleared his debts. She was satisfied the compensation paid was appropriate.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with the investigators conclusions. He said that he believed he told 
Lloyds the property was empty before July 2016, but that this would have been in a branch, 
rather than in a call to Lloyds mortgage centre. Mr W subsequently confirmed that he had a 
letter from June 2015 that confirmed his change of address and he thinks he told them at the 
time there was no-one living at the property. Mr W also disputed that he had told Lloyds in 
November 2015 that his ex-wife and her partner were living at the property. 
Lloyds confirmed that unless either the branch or Mr W had contacted the mortgage centre 
there would be no record of any branch-based discussions about the mortgage. It also 
confirmed that it couldnt provide a recording of the call from Mr W in November 2015.
Our investigator explained to Mr W that without evidence that hed told Lloyds the property 
was empty at an earlier date, she was unable to alter her conclusions. She confirmed that 
Lloyds had no record of being told earlier than July 2016 that his ex-wife had moved out, 
whether in a branch or otherwise. She also explained that this was supported by evidence of 
Lloyds continuing to send correspondence to the other borrow at the mortgaged property up 
to December 2016. She wasnt persuaded by the evidence that Lloyds had been aware the 
property was vacant before the summer of 2016 and so she couldnt say it should have 
started repossession proceedings earlier than 2016. 
Mr W again didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said he was very disappointed 
and accused Lloyds of lying and withholding information. He also accused the investigator of 
siding with Lloyds. Subsequently, Mr W said that the fact that Lloyds had said it was 
standard practice to address letters to both borrowers at all addresses being lived in, when 
he had evidenced he had received letters addressed to just him, proved that Lloyds was 
untrustworthy. 
In addition, Mr W also said that he had been accompanied when hed gone into the branch 
in March 2015 and the person with him was willing to confirm that hed told Lloyds the 
property was empty at that point.  Mr W said that hed begged Lloyds to sell the property as 
his ex-wife and her boyfriend had moved out and were destroying the property. He said that 
the police had been called to the property due to the damage being caused, but he didnt 
provide evidence of this. 
Subsequently Mr W provided a court document from July 2015 evidencing that his ex-wife 
had applied for an occupation order for the mortgaged property. He also gave us what 
appears to be a screen print of a social media account from a person with the same first 
name as his ex-wife  this evidences that the person moved on 28 June. There was no year 
attached to the post nor was there a surname for the person. A copy of a text message was 
also provided from 2 July 2015 where one person referred to the building society now 
owning a property, but again there is no identifying name associated with it. The investigator considered the further evidence, but she wasnt persuaded it showed that 
Lloyds knew the property was empty before July 2016. As agreement couldnt be reached 
and Mr W wanted someone else to review the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said that he informed Lloyds that the mortgaged property was unoccupied as early 
as March 2015. He has provided various pieces of evidence to support that the property was 
empty in 2015. I am not persuaded that the evidence does support that the property was 
empty from a date in the early part of 2015. Indeed, if the social media post provided was 
made by Mr Ws ex-wife in 2015, it would indicate she was resident in the property some 
months later than Mr W claims to have reported the unoccupancy to Lloyds. However, as I 
have said above, the posts in question only provide a first name and there isnt a year 
attached to them. So I cant attach any evidential weight to the posts.
As for the occupancy order that was rejected in July 2015; the fact the order was applied for 
doesnt evidence the applicant isnt resident in the property at the time, rather that the 
applicant wants a legal right to live in the property. It is not unusual for such an order to be 
applied for by a resident where a domestic partner wants them to vacate a property. I also 
note that Mr W initially told us that his ex-wife remained in the property, she then moved her 
boyfriend in and subsequently stopped paying the mortgage (the first payment being missed 
in July 2015) and moved out. This again would not indicate the property was empty when 
Mr W is now saying it was and he couldnt have truthfully told Lloyds in March 2015 that it 
was unoccupied.
However, I dont consider when Mr Ws ex-wife vacated the property is the key point in this 
case. It is when Lloyds became aware that she had. The only contemporaneous evidence 
relating to this are the telephone notes from the end of 2015 and the middle of 2016. These 
evidence that Lloyds were told the property was still occupied in November 2015 and it 
wasnt told it was empty until July 2016. I note that Mr W has told us he doesnt recall telling 
Lloyds the property was occupied in November 2015, but I can see no reason for Lloyds to 
have recorded this information if Mr W hadnt given it.
As our investigator explained, when consumers are in financial difficulties a lender is 
required to attempt to assist them. Its been evidenced that Lloyds wrote to the borrowers at 
both addresses they had to inform them of the missed payments, the arrears and to request 
that the matter be discussed. So I am not persuaded Lloyds acted inappropriately by not 
starting repossession proceedings before the middle of 2016, when I am satisfied it knew the 
property was empty and one of the borrowers wasnt co-operating about it being sold. 
Lloyds has paid redress to compensate Mr W for losses associated with the mortgage being 
in place for longer than it should have been. Mr W hasnt suggested these calculations are 
wrong or insufficient. What he has asked for in addition is the costs associated with his 
bankruptcy at the end of 2016.  Our investigator concluded that there was no evidence to 
show that had the property been sold in 2016, the funds Mr W would have received from it 
would have been enough to clear his debts and, thereby, allow him to avoid bankruptcy. 
Mr W didnt dispute this or provide any evidence in this regard. As such, I can only reach the 
same conclusion; that the evidence doesnt indicate an earlier property sale would have 
prevented the bankruptcy. As such, the costs Mr W asked to be reimbursed would always 
have been incurred and I cant ask Lloyds to pay them.  My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask I and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
15 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman