DRN-4199051
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services 
(Post Office Money) asked for documentation which delayed her loan offer and the loan offer 
subsequently expired.
What happened
Mrs B applied for a Post Office Money personal loan. She says she was asked for different 
documentation which she sent them, but they either didnt acknowledge they received the 
documents, or they said the document wasnt displayed correctly. Mrs B contacted Post 
Office Money who told her that her application had expired, and she would need to start the 
process again, which she did, but her application was declined. Mrs B says she had a third 
party credit card closed around this time and she was relying on the loan to pay off the 
outstanding balance on a third party credit card. Mrs B made a complaint to Post Office 
Money 
Post Office Money partially upheld Mrs Bs complaint and they offered her £50 
compensation. They said that on 12 July 2022 they received her Post Office Money loan 
application, which was referred, and further documents were required such as the signed 
loan agreement and evidence confirming her income. They said that they received her 
documents on 18 July 2022, but they didnt meet their criteria, so they sent her an email 
requesting that Mrs B contact them, which she did the following day, and the document 
requirements were confirmed to her. 
Post Office Money said they received further documents from Mrs B on 3 August 2022 and 
again they didnt meet their requirements, but they couldnt see that they emailed Mrs B this 
time, which meant Mrs B had to contact them unprompted, which she did on 18 August 
2022, where she was told what documents were outstanding. They say they received these 
documents on 1 September 2022, but her application had expired. Mrs B was told on 13 
September 2022, when she called them, that her application had been cancelled due to no 
response. Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said that she thought the £50 offer of compensation was fair. She said the 
application had expired as Mrs B was unable to send in the documents required in the 
format Post Office Money required before the deadline. Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has mentioned her third party credit card was closed around the time of her 
application for the Post Office Money loan. But here, I can only focus on the actions of Post 
Office Money as this is who her complaint is against. If she has concerns about the actions 
of her third party credit card provider, then she will need to speak to them separately. 
Mrs B applied for the loan on 12 July 2022. Although Post Office Money are unable to send 
us the exact emails they sent Mrs B due to the time thats passed since they sent them, they 
have sent us a screenshot which shows they sent her three emails in total. The email 
address they sent them to is the same email address that Mrs B provided to our service. 
They have sent us a template of the first email they sent Mrs B and this is showing on the 
screenshot as being sent on 12 July 2022. This shows that Mrs Bs application is approved 
in principle. It gives her instructions to read, sign and date her loan agreement and to upload 
it to their online portal. They also ask her to upload the documents they have asked for. And 
it asks her to ensure she can see all four corners of the document before she uploads it. 
This email also says You must upload your documents back to us within 30 days of your 
application, otherwise it will expire and you will need to re-apply. So Im satisfied that Post 
Office Money are clear that they need the required documents within 30 days of her 
application. As her application was made on 12 July 2022, then 30 days from this date would 
be 11 August 2022. I can see that Post Office Money sent Mrs B another email on 14 July 
2022 with the reference Refer+2 day. Its not clear of the contents of this email. But its 
probable this was a reminder of what she needed to do.
Mrs B has said that she uploaded the required documents as well as sending them by post. I 
can see that the copy of the tax document, which was received by Post Office Money on 18 
July 2022, does not show all four corners of the document, and as such, from their prior 
instructions, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Post Office Money to reject this. The third 
email Post Office Money sent Mrs B is dated 18 July 2022 and asks her to contact them. 
Ive listened to this call and Mrs B was told that they couldnt accept the cropped tax 
document. The call handler asked Mrs B if she had received any documents from Post 
Office Money yet and Mrs B confirmed she hadnt. The call handler told Mrs B that she 
would need to sign and return both pages of the credit agreement and to ensure she sent 
her income information showing all four corners. 
Ive listened to another call which Mrs B had with Post Office Money. It appears this call was 
on 2 August 2022 and Mrs B is wanting an update. The call handler tells Mrs B that they 
hadnt received her loan agreement. Mrs B says she has uploaded it and they agree Mrs B 
would upload the credit agreement again, and also send them a copy by post. There are a 
number of documents that Post Office Money received from Mrs B on 3 August 2022. I can 
see the credit agreement was not showing all four corners and was quite blurry, and both the 
pension and tax documents did not show all four corners. So I wouldnt have expected Post 
Office Money to be able to accept any of these documents Mrs B sent.
But what I would expect Post Office Money to do is to email Mrs B to ask her to contact them 
 just like they did previously. But Post Office Money did not do this. Mrs B went on holiday 
and the application expired. Its not clear if Mrs B could have provided the relevant 
documentation before the deadline expired given that she went on holiday, but the lack of 
email from Post Office Money didnt give her a chance to scan these documents and upload 
them. Post Office Money do admit to letting Mrs B down here and that is why they offered 
her compensation.
But Im persuaded Post Office Money let down Mrs B further. I say this because after they 
didnt email Mrs B to let her know they didnt accept the documents, Mrs B rings them when 
she returns from holiday. But the application would have expired by this point when Mrs B 
hadnt provided the acceptable documents by 11 August 2022. Post Office Moneys 
procedure is to not contact applicants when their applications expire, so I cant say theyve 
done anything wrong by not telling her this prior to the call. But when she rang them on 18 
August 2022, the call handler should have explained that the deadline had passed. He told Mrs B that they received her credit agreement that morning and the credit agreement was 
fine, but they were waiting for her income documentation.
The call handler says Mrs B needs to download the income document, and if she couldnt do 
this she would need to call HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) for a copy of this. The call 
handler says that she can send this to them in the post as well. Mrs B says she needs to 
know if the loan will go through or not before she does anything, and the call handler just 
replies ok and then he says once the document is sent they can complete the final checks. 
So here, Post Office Money has inconvenienced Mrs B by asking her to take actions that she 
didnt need to do  because the application would have already expired. An expectation was 
set that they could still complete their final checks. 
I can see that Post Office Money did receive the remaining documentation on 1 September 
2022 which was acceptable. But the application had already expired, so this is why Post 
Office Money didnt contact her to acknowledge this. Mrs B then rings Post Office Money on 
13 September 2022, where she is told her application had expired as they didnt receive the 
documentation within 30 days. Im unable to see what scans were uploaded to Post Office 
Moneys systems since Mrs Bs application was referred, but on the call on 13 September 
2022, Mrs B tells the call handler she scanned the same documents as the physical copies 
that she had sent in the post to them. So as these werent acceptable, this is why Im 
persuaded the scans werent accepted either.
Mrs B has said that she applied for the loan again with Post Office Money and was declined 
this time. I asked them about this, and they sent me a screenshot to show that they had 
three applications for a loan from Mrs B. This screenshot shows that all of the applications 
were made on 12 July 2022 and two were declined on their system as the first application 
was referred. Post Office Money has confirmed that these would not leave a hard search on 
Mrs Bs credit file. So the evidence suggests a further application was not made by Mrs B 
after the original application had expired. If Mrs B disputes this, then she may wish to 
provide evidence of another application to Post Office Money and make a complaint if 
necessary. 
Mrs B wants Post Office Money to re-offer the loan to her. But it would not be responsible of 
me to ask them to do this. I say this because Mrs Bs financial circumstances could have 
changed from when she first applied to now, and she didnt provide the documentation that 
Post Office Money asked her to send in the correct format before the deadline expired. So 
Im unable to ask them to re-offer her the loan. 
Post Office Money have already offered £50 to resolve this complaint. But Im satisfied that 
this is not enough compensation for the impact their errors had on Mrs B. I say this because 
not only did they not send her the email they should have done on 3 August 2022 (or when 
scans were also unsuccessful), but they inconvenienced her by asking her to take actions on 
the call on 18 August 2022 after the loan application had already expired. This resulted in 
Mrs B having to get documentation, post this to Post Office Money and resulted in her 
having to give them another call back only to be told her application had expired, which 
would be distressing to find out she did this for nothing. So Im satisfied that an extra £100 to 
total £150 compensation would be fair and reasonable for what happened here. So it follows 
I intend to ask Post Office Money to put things right for Mrs B.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Post Office Money said they had no further information to provide or comments to 
make. Mrs B said she had a couple of issues. In summary, she said there was only one 
email sent to her about the loan, which was the initial one asking her to give them a call, she 
said she was only asked for one document on the call and there were no emails sent to her 
after this email, so she had to call them, but they wanted a copy of documents which she had already sent them that were alright. She asked why Post Office Money sent our 
investigator the digital copies and not the physical copies she sent through the post that 
were confirmed as alright. She said she would like to see the emails they claimed to have 
sent her and questioned why these would be deleted during an ongoing dispute. Mrs B sent 
us an email from Post office Money which she says they declined her new application after 
her original application timed out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive carefully considered the submissions that have been made by 
Mrs B and by Post Office Money. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I 
have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
The evidence shows that Mrs B was sent three emails by Post Office Money. I know she 
says she received one, which was the email to contact them. But I think its likely she would 
have received the first email. I only say this because this email told her that her application 
was approved in principle and told her what documents she would need to send them. It also 
shows how she would be able to upload these documents. As Mrs B did upload documents 
thats why Im persuaded she got this email after she submitted her application. The 
screenshot that I referred to in my provisional decision displays the same email address as 
Mrs B gave our service and it shows to the second this was sent to her, on 12 July 2022 at 
3:22:10pm. But even if Mrs B didnt see this email I dont think it would have made any 
difference to what happened here as she was still able to upload her documents onto the 
system and the call handler she spoke to on 18 July 2022 told her they couldnt accept 
cropped documents.
The email Post Office Money say they sent her on 14 July 2022 shows again they sent this 
to her correct email address at 4:03:36pm. This appears to be a reminder of the first email, 
so again, even if Mrs B did not receive this, Im not persuaded that her receiving this email 
would have resulted in a different outcome here. I know Mrs B wants a copy of these two 
emails that she didnt receive. But Post Office Money are unable to send us these due to the 
time thats passed. While Mrs B had an ongoing dispute with them, they are not required to 
change their systems to keep every email they send when a complaint is raised. And our 
service does not have the power to ask Post Office Money to change their systems. So while 
I cant forward the other two emails to Mrs B, I hope she realises that in all likelihood that 
they wouldnt have made a difference to what happened here as these were sent before her 
email on 18 July 2022 to contact them. 
Id like to inform Mrs B that our service did receive the scans of the physical post that she 
sent Post Office Money of her documentation. The first document they received was the tax 
document and this is what I believe prompted the email from Post Office Money for Mrs B to 
contact them. But they did not accept this document. As I said in my provisional decision 
Mrs B was told that they couldnt accept the cropped tax document. The call handler asked 
Mrs B if she had received any documents from Post Office Money yet and Mrs B confirmed 
she hadnt. The call handler told Mrs B that she would need to sign and return both pages of 
the credit agreement and to ensure she sent her income information showing all four 
corners. So Mrs B hadnt received her credit agreement at that point and Post Office Money 
was clear that her tax document was cropped (not showing all four corners).The next physical post that Post Office Money received from Mrs B was on 3 August 2022. 
This was still within the 30 day timeframe. As I said in my provisional decision I can see the 
credit agreement was not showing all four corners and was quite blurry, and both the 
pension and tax documents did not show all four corners. So I wouldnt have expected Post 
Office Money to be able to accept any of these documents Mrs B sent. From listening to the 
calls Mrs B had, no call handler said any of her documents were accepted prior to the 30 day 
deadline expiring. It was only after the deadline expired that Mrs B had sent documentation 
that was acceptable to Post Office Money. I will ask our investigator to send Mrs B the post 
that Post Office Money received from her on 18 July and 3 August 2022, so she can see that 
none of the four corners were showing on any of the documents she posted them prior to the 
deadline expiring on 11 August 2022.
It was only on 18 August 2022 that Post Office Money received an acceptable credit 
agreement from Mrs B (albeit it was now after the deadline). Again, I will ask our investigator 
to send Mrs B this so she can see this is different to the credit agreement that Post Office 
Money received on 3 August 2022 from her. They then received an acceptable tax document 
from Mrs B on 1 September 2022. So Im not persuaded they did ask her for documents 
which had already been accepted. 
Ive considered the email that Mrs B has took a screenshot of regarding another application 
for a loan to Post Office Money. While I can understand why she believes Post Office Money 
have declined her application, and the email shows an application reference number, Im 
persuaded this is not an official application which she made  which would tie in with what I 
said in my provisional decision I asked them about this, and they sent me a screenshot to 
show that they had three applications for a loan from Mrs B. This screenshot shows that all 
of the applications were made on 12 July 2022 and two were declined on their system as the 
first application was referred. 
The reason why this was not an official application is because it says Your likelihood of 
being accepted for a loan with us is 0/10, so were unlikely to approve a loan for you if you 
apply. So although its likely they would decline an application for Mrs B if she applied for a 
loan, this was not an actual application, otherwise they wouldnt reference what would 
happen if she applied. Although Mrs B says none of her circumstances have changed, Post 
Office Moneys lending criteria may have changed from when she first applied to when she 
received the email telling her that the likelihood of her being accepted for a loan with them is 
0/10. It is not the role of this service to tell Post Office Money who they should give loans to 
or not. 
In summary, Mrs Bs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs B will be disappointed, but I 
hope she understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services to pay Mrs B a total of 
£150 compensation (less anything they have already paid her) for distress and 
inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial 
Services should pay Mrs B a total of £150 compensation (less anything they have already 
paid her) for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman