DRN-4200701
The complaint
Mr M complaints Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave him a line of credit without 
carrying out sufficient checks. 
What happened
Mr M approached Drafty for a running credit facility on 22 October 2021 and Mr M was given 
a facility with a £550 credit limit  the limit was increased on one occasion in March 2022 to 
£1,130. Mr M has had some problems repaying the facility and by June 2023, the 
outstanding balance of £1,482.74 had been passed to a third party to collect on behalf of 
Drafty.
Mr M was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. He was also
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be
clear, Mr M was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys final response letter issued in March 2023, it explained the information it had 
gathered from Mr M before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly 
repayment that Mr M was likely to be able to afford the repayments. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, 
where it was considered by an adjudicator. The adjudicator thought the checks Drafty carried 
out before initially granting this facility were likely proportionate.
The adjudicator also explained that Drafty had an obligation to monitor the facility. She 
thought, that when the credit limit was increased by more than double the original limit Drafty 
ought to have carried out some further checks. Drafty didnt do this at the time, but the 
adjudicator reviewed Mr Ms bank statements which he had provided. After she reviewed 
them, she concluded that even if Drafty had undertaken further checks it wouldve likely 
thought the new credit limit was affordable for Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree, saying Drafty should never have approved the facility. Mr M provided 
some further information about his finances at the time including that he was covering his 
partners bills as well. While Mr M did make a large payment to Drafty this was only possible 
as he had taken on another loan. At the time, Mr M says he was living beyond his means. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Ms
Drafty facility.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I dont think Drafty needed to have 
made further enquires with Mr M before it approved the facility. It was reasonable for it to 
have relied on the information Mr M provided along with the credit check results. Ive 
explained why below. 
Mr M wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he borrowed plus the 
interest due when he next got paid. Mr M was given a facility where there was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable 
period. What constitutes a reasonable period is laid out in the regulations but its important to 
note that a reasonable period will always be dependent on the circumstances of the 
individual case.
Mr M was granted a facility with a £550 limit. In the credit agreement, a hypothetical situation 
is laid out to show the potential cost to Mr M. This hypothetical situation assumed that Mr M 
did the following:
1. drew down his maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided,
2. he kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Mr M repaid what he owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Mr M done that, hed have repaid Drafty a total of £575.73 meaning twelve monthly
repayments of around £47.97 each.
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Mr M could make monthly repayments of around £48 at an
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Mr Ms application after hed provided details of his monthly
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. Mr M declared he worked full time 
and received an income of £2,276.10 per month and he also declared monthly outgoings of 
£975. This expenditure was broken down as £475 for a mortgage / rent, £275 for utilities and 
£225 for food. 
This information showed Drafty that Mr M had around £1,300 of disposable income each 
month in which to service and repay the facility. Drafty couldve reasonably concluded the 
facility was affordable for Mr M. 
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. The results showed that Mr M had 3 active accounts and these accounts had outstanding 
balances of £100. Although no credit commitments were declared by Mr M as part of his 
applications, as the outstanding balances were low, even adding the total amount of credit 
outstanding to his living costs still made the facility affordable. 
According to the results of the credit checks, none of Mr Ms active accounts were in 
delinquency and he hadnt had any defaults recorded on his credit file within the last 15 
months. So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Drafty to have concluded, from the credit 
check results that Mr M wasnt likely experiencing any financial difficulties. 
I appreciate that Mr M has provided copies of his bank statements as well as a copy of his 
credit file, but at this point in the relationship, considering the cost per month to Mr M and 
what else Drafty knew about him, I think it wouldve been disproportionate for it to have 
carried out further checks, such as reviewing his bank statements. 
Overall, I think Drafty carried out proportionate checks which showed it the facility was likely 
to be affordable for Mr M. I am therefore not upholding his complaint about Draftys decision 
to provide him with a facility. 
Credit limit increase
In March 2022, Drafty increased Mr Ms credit limit from £550 to £1,130. When the facility 
was approved, Drafty was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and it issued 
guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be expected from lenders when 
granting these types of loans. Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 
5.2A.6 says:
If an increase in the amount of credit or in the credit limit is not itself significant but 
would results in there having been, since the last creditworthiness assessment, a 
cumulative increase that is significant, then a further creditworthiness assessment is 
required.
The adjudicator therefore thought for this credit limit increase, Drafty ought to have carried 
out some further checks to ensure that Mr M would be able to afford the increased payments 
and that he would be able to service and repay the facility with the new limit. I agree with 
this, given Drafty had more than doubled Mr Ms original credit limit. 
The adjudicator felt it was proportionate to have reviewed Mr Ms copy bank statements and 
I also would agree. But looking at bank statements was one of a number of ways Drafty 
couldve gone about building a more detailed picture of Mr Ms finances.  
Ive also looked at the bank statements, and it does seem that Mr Ms income was made up 
of a combination of wages and benefits  and in the month before the facility balance 
increased this income came to around £2,500 which is around the same amount of income 
Mr M declared to Drafty when his facility was approved. 
In terms of credit commitments, I can see a payment towards a credit card, a payment to a 
buy-now pay later loan and there is also a payment to a third-party debt collector. But there 
isnt anything from the bank statements to indicate that Mr M was struggling to pay these 
commitments or that they were not being paid in a sustainable manner. 
The adjudicator concluded Mr M had around £500 per month disposable income  a figure 
that Mr M says he never had available. Having looked at the bank statements, while I can 
see payments for living costs, there isnt anything to show that Mr M was struggling to pay them or didnt have any left over each month to afford the increase in the credit limit Drafty 
proposed. 
Ive taken on board what Mr M told us that he was covering his partners bills, and he also 
explained around this time he had to take time off work. But that wasnt reflected in the 
information Drafty may have seen and therefore, I cant fairly conclude from looking at the 
bank statements that Drafty wouldve or ought to have known that Mr M may have struggled 
to make his payments. 
Monitoring the facility
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility or when it 
increased the credit limit, that wasnt the end of its obligations to Mr M. The relevant section 
of CONC 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some indicators, which when present in a 
consumers circumstances, could be suggestive of potential financial difficulties. In practice, 
CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Mr Ms repayment record and how he 
used the facility and step in if and when he showed signs of possible repayment difficulties.
Having reviewed the transaction data, which includes the relationship between when Mr M 
made his drawdowns and his repayments, there isnt anything within that which ought to 
have given Drafty cause for concern. Between October 2021 and the last drawdown in 
November 2022, Mr M drew down a number of times, but importantly, he didnt draw every 
month for example there was no lending in December 2021 or May 2022. There was also a 
time when Mr M made significant payments towards his facility such as July 2022. I 
appreciate Mr M says that this payment could only have been made by borrowing form 
another lender, but at the time Drafty wouldnt have reasonably known that. 
In addition to the drawdowns Mr M was making at least the minimum payment each month  
and sometimes more such as in April 2022. There wasnt anything within his repayments 
that wouldve indicated to Drafty that he was having, or likely having, financial difficulties. 
Having reviewed all the evidence, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. An outstanding 
balance remains due, and I would remind Drafty of its regulatory obligation to treat Mr M 
fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman