DRN-2015815
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) allowed a large amount of money to 
be taken without his authorisation from a joint account he held with his wife, Mrs S. Mr S is 
also unhappy that he wasnt told the money had gone, even though hed set up text alerts on 
the account to do just that. 
What happened
Barclays were written to by the Child Maintenance Service (CMS) in May 2019. The letter 
told Barclays to first hold and then take money from the specific bank account held by Mr 
and Mrs S. Barclays followed the instructions in the letter, and took the money from Mr and 
Mrs Ss account on 29 May. 
Barclays have sent us a recording of a telephone conversation in January 2019, when theyd 
told Mr S they would send him a text message after any transaction happened for the 
account. But Barclays say the notification wasnt set up quite right, so no text message was 
sent to Mr S when the money was taken out on 29 May. 
Mr S complained on 30 May 2019, and Barclays responded on 7 June. They said theyd had 
to do what the CMS had told them to do. But they apologised for not sending Mr S the text 
message, and said theyd pay him £25 as an apology. Mr S wasnt happy with this response, 
as he wanted the money back that had been taken out of the account. So he brought the 
matter to us. 
Our investigator found that Barclays did have to do what the CMS told them. And while he 
agreed Barclays had failed to send the text messages as Mr S would have been expecting, 
he also felt the £25 offered was a suitable remedy. Barclays accepted this view, but Mr S 
asked for the matter to be looked at again. So this case has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same view as our investigator  Barclays have acted 
reasonably when taking the money from Mr and Mrs Ss account, and taken reasonable 
steps to put right the failure to send Mr S a text message at the time. 
But I do understand Mr and Mrs Ss point of view here. Most of the time, the expectation will 
be that a bank will only give their customers money to people the customer has said can 
have it. But there are times when a bank will have to do otherwise.
In Mr and Mrs Ss case, the letters the CMS sent to Barclays were backed by powers set out 
in the Child Support Act 1991, specifically section 32E. Barclays cant reasonably be 
expected to ignore those powers  so they had to do what the CMS told them.
Mr and Mrs S may feel the CMSs decision to take the money wasnt right, but that goes 
beyond the scope of this office to investigate. Theyll need to seek other advice about 
whether the CMS have acted within any rules that apply to them. 
For my decision, I recognise the Child Support Act exists and gives power to the CMSs 
letters. That in turn made it reasonable for Barclays to feel they had to do what the letters 
they received told them. It was perhaps a little confusing for Barclays to refer to them as 
court orders in their later correspondence, as I dont think thats quite what they are. But 
they are orders backed by the law, and the principle of needing to do what they said is 
sound. 
Turning to the complaint about the lack of a text message when the money was taken from 
Mr and Mrs Ss account, I can see Barclays accept their service fell short. I agree with that 
view, so Ive mainly thought about whether the apology and £25 theyve offered was a 
suitable to put things right. 
My focus is on the impact the mistake had on Mr and Mrs S. The text message was to be 
sent after the transaction, so it wouldnt have stopped the money being taken from the 
account. So while I understand Mr and Mrs S may have been unpleasantly surprised that the 
money had gone, that would have been the same even if theyd received a text message to 
tell them about it. So I dont think Barclays need to do anything to try to acknowledge that 
surprise. 
The issue is more about the delay in them finding out. But Mr S complained on 30 May about 
the money being taken on 29 May. So it doesnt look to me like the lack of the notification 
caused too much delay in this case. I find the modest payment Barclays made of £25 looks 
like the right amount to acknowledge the impact such a short delay had on Mr and Mrs S. 
My final decision
Ive decided Barclays Bank UK PLC acted reasonably when taking the money from Mr and 
Mrs Ss account, and took reasonable steps to put right the failure to send Mr S a text 
message at the time. I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman