DRN-2509384
The complaint
Miss K complains about the level of service provided by BISL Limited following a claim made 
on her motor insurance policy. She wants further compensation. 
What happened
Miss Ks car was damaged whilst parked and she made a claim on her policy. BISL arranged 
a courtesy car for her but Miss K was unhappy with its level of service and that the car was 
dirty. She thought this endangered her and her family. BISL agreed that its customer service 
had been poor, and that the car was dirty. It said Miss K had been without a replacement 
hire car for two days. It offered her £150 in total compensation. But Miss K said this wasnt 
sufficient for the amount of inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought BISL 
had accepted that it had provided a poor level of service. But she thought its offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss K replied that shed been without a car for longer than two days. Miss K asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss K has also raised concerns about the repairs made to her car, and the 
courtesy car provided. But these concerns are subject to a separate complaint against her 
insurer, so Ill not consider these further here. 
Miss K said the hire car provided for her was dirty and contained items left by a previous 
user. I can understand that she would feel worried about this given the current pandemic. 
But, as the investigator has explained, we cant consider the potential consequences of 
business failings. To be fair and reasonable to all parties, we consider the actual 
consequences. 
When a business makes a mistake, as BISL accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
BISL agreed that its agent had provided Miss K with poor service. It offered Miss K £75 
compensation for the upset this caused her. Ive listened to the call in question and I agree 
that the agent could have better responded to Miss Ks concerns, But I think £75 
compensation for the upset this caused was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with the 
level Id award in similar situations. 
BISL offered Miss K £20 for the cost of her calls. I can see that Miss K was kept on hold 
frequently and had to make calls in pursuit of her claim. I think thats fair and reasonable.  
BISL agreed that the replacement car was dirty. Miss K was without a replacement car for 
two days when she was entitled to one, and BISL offered her £20 compensation for this. I 
think thats in keeping with our approach for loss of use. And BISL offered Miss K £30 for the 
condition of the hire car. I can understand that Miss K was distressed to be provided with a 
dirty car. But I think this was sufficient compensation for the impact this had on her. 
So I think BISL has acted to restore Miss Ks position and offered sufficient compensation for 
the impact its errors had on her. I dont require BISL to increase this. If BISL hasnt yet paid 
Miss K this compensation, I expect it to honour its offer if Miss K would like to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman