DRN-3732083
The complaint
Mr G complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) took too long to stop his 
leak under his Home Emergency policy, resulting in greater damage to his property.
What happened
Mr G made a claim on his policy at 9:51am after he noticed his bedroom radiator was 
leaking. British Gas booked an all-day appointment, which meant its engineer shouldve 
turned up before 6pm to fix the leak. Mr G made several calls during the day to try and 
accelerate British Gas visit.
British Gas engineer attended at 6:54pm the same day and fixed the leak. However, Mr G 
was unhappy. He said the delay in British Gas attending led to his property suffered greater 
damage.
Mr G had a successful claim under his property and contents insurance for the damage but 
was unhappy that he had to pay an excess on both these claims (£600 in total). He said the 
excessive damage meant he had to stay in alternative accommodation longer than he 
wouldve needed to. He wants his excess payments paid by British Gas and further 
compensation for the inconvenience he has experienced.
British Gas offered £50 compensation as an apology for the multiple calls and the delay in 
the engineer attending. However, British Gas said it wouldnt pay Mr Gs £600 excess or 
any other compensation as this wasnt covered by the terms and conditions of the policy. It 
said the damage caused was consequential of the leak which was not caused by British 
Gas. Mr G declined the compensation that was offered.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought British Gas had met the 
terms and conditions of the policy by attending within reasonable timeframes. He said the 
£50 offered by British Gas was reasonable for the inconvenience caused. Mr G disagreed, 
so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 30 August 2022. I said:
Mr G thought British Gas took too long to attend to his leak, so Ive considered whether I 
think it attended within a reasonable timeframe. British Gas said it would attend between 
8am and 6pm the day Mr G reported his leak. I have checked the terms and conditions of 
the policy to understand what responsibility British Gas had. I can see that the policy sets out 
British Gas should attend in a reasonable timescale  it defines this as well carry out any 
repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our 
control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible and 
give you another time when we can visit.
As British Gas fixed the leak the same day the claim was raised, I think its met the terms 
and conditions of the policy by fixing the leak in a reasonable timescale. However, British 
Gas couldnt attend until nearly one hour after the scheduled appointment slot. Whilst I dont 
think an hour is a long time in these circumstances, I do think British Gas shouldve attended 
before 6pm as this is the clear expectation it had set with Mr G. I cant see that British Gas 
attempted to inform Mr G in advance that its engineer would be delayed, which is a 
requirement set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. 
So, I intend to uphold this aspect of the complaint. I intend to award £100 additional 
compensation to Mr G for the inconvenience caused for the additional waiting time. I think it 
was clear by the calls Mr G made that he was distressed by the situation and I dont think 
British Gas did enough to alleviate this by properly managing his expectations. So, I dont 
think the £50 compensation offered is sufficient in these circumstances.
Ive considered whether British Gas should pay anything towards the £600 costs Mr G has 
incurred with his insurer. I dont think its reasonable for British Gas to pay this and Ill explain 
why. The policy excludes any other loss or damage. The policy explains that we're not 
responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or fixtures as a 
result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we caused it. For 
example, damage caused by water leaks. We're also not responsible for any losses incurred 
as a result of delayed, rearranged or cancelled appointments.
I think British Gas broadly met the requirements of the policy by repairing the leak in a 
reasonable timeframe. The policy doesnt set an expectation it wouldve fixed the leak any 
sooner than it did. British Gas didnt cause the leak and the policy excludes damage caused 
by water leaks, so I dont think its fair to expect it to compensate Mr G for the excess 
payments he paid to his property and contents insurer. I think its likely Mr G wouldve paid 
these excess payments even if the leak had been fixed much quicker, say in two hours. 
In summary, I intend to uphold part of the complaint, where British Gas has failed to meet 
the expectations it set Mr G on appointment time and it failed to communicate any delays to 
Mr G. However, I dont think its reasonable to hold British Gas responsible for any part of 
the damage caused by the leak.
Responses to my provisional decision
British Gas accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Mr G didnt have anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr G:
£100 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (plus the £50 already offered if 
its still not been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman