DRN-2690763
The complaint
Mr G complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 money (Madison) 
registered a default on his credit file while he was in a payment arrangement with them.
What happened
Mr G says he took out a loan with Madison in 2018 and due to financial pressure, he set up 
a payment arrangement with them in 2019. Mr G says that despite him keeping to this 
arrangement, Madison issued a default notice and shortly afterwards sold the loan to a debt 
collection agency. Mr G says he feels Madison havent acted reasonably here and wants 
them to remove the default from his credit file.
Madison says because Mr G was already in arrears they were acting within the terms and 
conditions of the loan agreement when issuing and registering the default. Madison says 
they were able to sell  the account to another lender without notification, under the terms and 
conditions of the loan agreement.
Mr G wasnt happy with Madisons response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the available information and upheld Mr Gs complaint. The 
investigator felt that Mr G should have been allowed to see through the temporary 
arrangement plan before Madison recorded the default against him. The investigator asked 
Madison to remove the default notice from Mr Gs credit file.
Madison werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr G to have been issued with a default notice by 
Madison when he had agreed a payment arrangement with them. When looking at this 
complaint I have considered whether Madison had acted reasonably when they registered 
the default against Mr G.
I can see from the information provided to this service, initially Mr G telephoned and made 
arrangements with Madison regarding his loan arrears, following him missing a loan 
payment in February 2019. What happened here was, Mr G agreed with Madison to make 
up the missing payment by increasing his next three months loan repayments starting from 
March 2019. Mr G unfortunately missed the loan payment in March and discussed this with 
Madison in a phone call in mid-April 2019 where he admitted he couldnt make up the earlier 
arrears and agreed with Madison to make payments of £100 for the next three months 
commencing in May 2019. Mr G then telephoned Madison in mid-May to amend the 
payment plan to £250 per month for the period May 2019  July 2019. A week or so later Mr 
G telephoned Madison again to say because his wages werent what he was expecting he 
could not afford to make the £250 payment and it was agreed to pay £100 from June to 
August 2019. 
From the information I have seen the June, July and August payments were made but not on 
the agreed date of the 23rd of each month, varying between 1 and 7 days late.  I have 
listened to the phone call recordings in both February and May 2019, and in both cases a 
comprehensive income and expenditure profile was undertaken, and it was made clear, 
given Mr G had missed payments before, he was certain he could now afford the monthly 
payments he had offered. Its worth mentioning, during those calls the member of Madisons 
team says that if the new arrangements are broken it would have a negative impact on his 
credit file. Mr G was reminded in Mays telephone conversation, that it was important he 
made the repayments and had funds available by 1am on the due date.
Mr Gs complaint to this service is Madison registered a default against him while he was 
meeting the terms of his payment plan and they transferred his debt to a debt collection 
agency. Its important to say that Madison are able to sell loans they have to other lenders 
without notification and is part of the terms and conditions of their loan agreement, so I cant 
say they have done anything wrong here.  While Mr G may not agree, although he had a 
payment plan in place with Madison both the first of these and the most recent havent been 
adhered to. I say this because the initial agreement made with Madison wasnt met and 
while he kept Madison informed of this, there was sufficient evidence between Feb and June 
2019 to suggest that a sustainable payment plan wasnt likely to be maintained by Mr G. It 
should be mentioned that at the time of the payment plan being approved Mr G was three 
months in arrears and as a result Madison decided to issue the default notice in July having 
previously explained  the consequences of missed payment plan arrangements with Mr G. 
While I can see that Mr G was attempting to keep Madison informed here, Madison had 
shown a good deal of flexibility with the various amended payment plans. What is important 
here is once a payment plan is agreed by both parties it is crucial these plans are adhered 
to, especially in the circumstances where arrears are present. It is fair to say Madison did try 
to support Mr G, so I cant say it was unrealistic of them to take the view in July 2019, when 
they issued a notice of default, it was likely the arrears would be cleared in the short term. I 
say this because, there was a background of missed and late payments by Mr G even when 
a payment plan had been agreed. 
I am satisfied Madison acted fairly and in line with their responsibilities to record the default 
on Mr Gs credit file following the issue of the notice of default. I say this because this is 
detailed under their terms and conditions of the loan credit agreement section 3. headed  
consequences of missing payments  and discussed during telephone conversations they 
had with Mr G. 
While Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
Madison here. 
Neither Mr G or Madison responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr G and Madison until 18 March 2021 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision, but as I have heard nothing further from either I see no need to change to this and 
so my final decision remains the same.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman