DRN-1758733
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Paratus AMC Limited trading as Foundation Home Loans (FHL) failed 
to recalculate his contractual monthly repayment following a lump sum overpayment towards 
his mortgage balance. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B made a lump sum overpayment of £4,500 towards his mortgage 
account. His balance wasnt readjusted accordingly. His next contractual monthly payment 
on 1 January 2020 was for the usual amount of £195.97. Mr B called FHL the next day to 
question this. FHL apologised and confirmed the error would be corrected. 
Dissatisfied with FHLs service, Mr B raised a complaint. He wanted compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by having to call to raise the issue. His complaint was upheld and 
FHL offered £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr B didnt think the compensation offered was enough, so he brought his complaint to our 
service. An investigator looked into things and felt the amount offered was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Mr B didnt agree so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. FHL has admitted it got things wrong. 
So, the only issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things right, 
including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that FHL should compensate Mr B for the inconvenience caused. However, I 
also think its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate 
consumers - not punish organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful 
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award 
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.
I appreciate Mr B was inconvenienced by FHLs error. I think the £25 offered fairly 
compensates Mr B for the time and inconvenience of having to make one call to FHL to 
resolve this issue. I dont think there has been any further impact on Mr B. I say this because 
the mistake was picked up the day after the wrong payment amount was collected. FHL 
apologised to Mr B for what happened and acted on its mistake quickly by deducting the 
additional interest charged of £16.06 from Mr Bs mortgage account. So there has been no 
financial loss to Mr B. A letter was sent to Mr B the same day confirming the details of the 
new mortgage balance and payments due from 1 February 2020.
Mr B is also unhappy that in an email sent to him on 24 February 2020, FHL acknowledged 
the declined compensation offer but referred to an amount of £125 instead of £25. Mr B 
highlighted the mistake. FHL quickly replied and apologised for the typo. I dont expect it to 
do anything more. 
Ive noted all the things Mr B has said about what could happen if the overpayment issue 
was not picked up in time. But when considering everything, I think the compensation of £25 
that has been offered to Mr B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
I have decided that FHL has been reasonable in its attempt to put things right. So I do not 
require it to increase Mr Bs award for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that FHL should pay Mr B the £25 offered as compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman