DRN-3031033
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card, in 2004. Mrs R says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Lloydss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit sharing, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Lloyds should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
I see we still have access to the agreement Mrs R signed when she applied for her new 
card. There was a section on the agreement which invited her to choose if she did  or she 
didnt  want PPI with the new card she was applying for. She selected the yes option and 
also signed to agree to the credit terms. I see from Mrs Rs credit card statements that the 
PPI was also listed regularly on these. I think if she hadnt wanted it or had made an error in 
asking for it on the application form, Mrs R could have asked why the PPI charges were 
being applied. Ive seen no suggestion of her doing this.
So, all this demonstrates to me that Mrs R probably wanted this type of protective cover at 
the time and I think Lloyds properly obtained her consent.
I note this was a postal application and therefore not an advised sale. This means Lloyds 
didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for her. The decision about buying the cover 
was for Mrs R to make herself and she would have probably made her way through the 
postal application in her own time without any intervention from Lloyds. Nevertheless, its 
certainly possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt quite as clear as it 
should have been and Ive given a lot of thought to this area. 
However, I think the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what Mrs R reasonably thought she was 
buying from the information she was likely given at the point of sale. I therefore dont think 
she would have declined the policy, even if Lloyds could have done a better job at explaining 
things. She was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend 
to see in these types of policy. The PPI would have paid out 5% of her outstanding credit 
card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This would have been in addition to 
any other means she had at that time, although I see she mentioned she didnt enjoy any 
sick pay with her job. I can therefore see why the cover would have been of use to her.
Ive also seen nothing else that would have made claiming for back or mental health 
problems especially onerous for Mrs R either, as alleged by her representatives. Mrs Rs 
representatives told us about her medical history in the context of any pre-existing medical 
conditions that might have affected her wider ability to successfully claim on the policy. But 
these related to injuries from several decades before the PPI sale. And while Im sure would 
have been of concern at the time, they seem not to be ongoing issues that would have been 
excluded under the policy rules. So Im afraid I dont see these as relevant to the complaint.
Overall, I think this policy was of use to Mrs R.
Mrs Rs representative also raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it 
says apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim. But Mrs 
Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ive thought about these and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs R about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: - The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mrs R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs R because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Rs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they have said Mrs R should get back all 
the money she paid for the policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mrs R about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Mrs R wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission 
and she should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs R in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipSo, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Rs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs R paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mrs R with the policy Ive concluded above she 
would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Rs 
complaint or make any award in favour of her for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs R an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
The evidence Ive seen suggests an offer was previously made and paid in this regard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman