DRN-2273122
The complaint
Mr E complains that Funding Circle Ltd unfairly introduced a transfer payment on his
crowdfunding accounts. 
What happened
Mr E opened a loan-based crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in January 2018 and 
an Innovative Finance ISA (IFISA) account in April 2018.
Funding Circles platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return
for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is
looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of
Mr Es complaint, Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a
way for investors to access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors by
way of a secondary market.
Mr E complained to Funding Circle as he was unhappy that it was introducing a new
transfer payment in December 2019, which would apply to loan parts he currently had for
sale on the secondary market. This 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale value of all
loan parts sold on the secondary market and acted as a discount to investors who bought
the individual loan parts. He said that there was no transfer payment when he opened his 
accounts and, had there been, this would have influenced his decision to invest with Funding 
Circle. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. In summary it said:
The ability and time taken to sell loan parts on the secondary market is not, and has
never been, guaranteed. While the secondary market provides an option for those 
investors who wish to access their funds early, it has always taken care to explain
that the time to sell is dependent on demand from other investors.
Its terms and conditions state that sale requests that are not successful within 120
days will be delisted from the secondary market. However, it paused this delisting 
process while it conducted its secondary market review.
It acknowledged that the sales queue had increased, and that the 1.25% transfer
payment was introduced to help reduce it.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes
without Mr Es consent, but these changes were communicated clearly with fair 
notice given.
It clarified that this isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and instead is a payment
made to the buyers of the loan parts.
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans.
So Mr E could access his funds whilst avoiding paying this transfer fee if he switched
withdrew his monthly repayments on his loan parts.
Its confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would some funds back faster and more regularly.
Mr E didnt accept this and so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
Funding Circles terms and conditions allow it to make amendments and it had given
enough notice to Mr E of the changes. 
The terms and investor guide clarify that loan parts can be sold but that its subject to 
demand from other investors and the terms and conditions explain that there is no 
guarantee on the length of time this process may take.
There was no guarantee that Mr E would have sold all his loan parts if the changes
werent made.
Mr E had the option to take the loan parts out of the sales queue if he wasnt happy
with the changes.
Market conditions had become quite challenging as demand from buying
investors had slumped. And queues to sell loan parts on the secondary market were
getting longer. As a result of this, the perceived risk to potential buying investors
wouldve also been increased as their ability to exit lending agreements early
wouldve also been compromised or delayed.
The new 1.25% transfer payment is not a charge that Funding Circle receives 
instead it acts as a discount to potential buyers. So she was satisfied this was a price
adjustment rather than a fee.
Ultimately, Mr E was looking to sell his loan parts and the new transfer payment 
could act as an incentive for investors to buy his loan parts sooner.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said:
He had decided to invest with Funding Circle because he could use the secondary 
market if he wished and had there been a fee at that point he wouldnt have invested 
on its platform.
He didnt think it was fair that Funding Circle could unilaterally change the terms of its 
agreement with him without giving the option to exit this agreement with no penalty.
He didnt think the introduction of the transfer payment would help reduce queues to 
sell as investors on the platform dont choose whether the loans they invest in are 
new or from the secondary market.
He didnt think it was a price adjustment that reflected risk perception as it was 
applied as a flat rate across the board.
And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. I understand this will
come as a disappointment to Mr E, but Ill explain my reasons why.
Funding Circle sent Mr E an email in October 2019 explaining it was introducing the
transfer payment, which would apply from 2 December 2019. The email also explained that
Funding Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to reflect this.
The new terms and conditions explained:10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market,
a Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part,
to the benefit of the purchasing Investor.
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its
previous terms and conditions:
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to
time without your consent for any of the following reasons:
[...]
to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to
introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services we
no longer offer;
This type of term is known as a variation clause and it is common practice for financial
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. I understand that Mr E doesnt think
it was fair for Funding Circle to introduce the transfer payment by way of this variation
clause. However, its not my role to determine if Funding Circle were legally able to include a
clause like this in its terms and conditions. That would be something for a Court to decide.
However, under the ombudsmans terms of reference contained in section 228 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, I can look beyond the strict terms and conditions
to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
I think its important to clarify that the transfer payment is a re-pricing instrument applied to
loans which are sold on the secondary market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed it
doesnt receive any money from the transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors
who purchase the individual loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount
incentive to these buyers. In June 2019 the regulator, the FCA, published its policy
statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the FCA provided clarity around when and how
often crowdfunding platforms should re-price loans. It implemented this by way of introducing
new rules into COBS which came into force in December 2019.
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of
the P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the
price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Mr Es case, Funding Circle is facilitating an exit for him by way of selling his loan
parts on the secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle has a
regulatory requirement to ensure that the price for Mr Es loan parts are fair andappropriate on the secondary market. Funding Circle has applied a blanket transfer payment
of 1.25% to all loans which are sold by way of the secondary market. So in order to
determine whether this is fair and appropriate, its important to understand what
considerations Funding Circle made before introducing this.
Funding Circle has provided our service with information regarding its considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. Funding
Circles considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms  the 
1.25% transfer payment aligns Funding Circle with other lending platforms in the 
market.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment and selling tool would have on both 
the buyer and seller of loan parts on the secondary market.
As well as these considerations, its clear that sales queues on the secondary market were
increasing and it was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts
in this way. And the introduction of the transfer payment, along with the new selling tool, was
clearly intended to combat these queues and to reduce the time investors, such as Mr E,
must wait in order to sell their loan parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors,
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results
published to the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in
loan parts sale requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there
was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in the market is an
important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Mr Es loan parts. I say this as
Funding Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and appropriate
not only to Mr E, but also to the investors who intend to purchase them from him. It follows
that if the loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market conditions, then
Funding Circle must ensure the price offered reflects this. 
I understand Mr E doesnt agree that the introduction of the transfer payment will help 
reduce queues and that a flat rate reduction in the selling price isnt a fair reflection. Ive 
thought carefully about these points but, having done so, I dont think Funding Circles 
actions were unfair. As Ive explained above, the reason for introducing the transfer payment 
was to adhere to fair pricing regulations. There was an increased perception by investors 
that loan parts were riskier on the secondary market, which had meant that these loan parts 
werent selling quickly. Which meant that Funding Circle had to re-price them accordingly. 
Although Funding Circle hoped that this would in-turn reduce the queues, even if it didnt 
have this effect, Funding Circles actions were still with its regulatory requirements in mind. 
Furthermore, whilst I appreciate Funding Circle has applied a blanket price reduction rather 
than individually re-pricing each loan, I dont think this means its acted unfairly. Ultimately, 
the increase in perceived risk wasnt loan or borrower specific and so, on balance, I think it 
was fair for Funding Circle to apply a flat rate reduction. 
Its also important to consider Mr E doesnt have to sell his loan parts on the secondary
market if he doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. And so he has the freedom to exit 
following the unilateral variation if he doesnt wish to remain invested with Funding Circle. As 
Funding Circle has explained, the transfer payment is only triggered if Mr E decides to exit 
from his investment before the maturity date of the loans. So he is able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any requests to transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment 
option; keeping the loan parts until they mature and withdrawing his monthly repayments. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr E says his decision to invest with Funding Circle was because it 
offered a secondary market where no fees would apply, there was never a guarantee that 
his loan parts would sell on the secondary market  something which Funding Circle makes 
clear in its terms and conditions:
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any
assurance as to how long it may take to do so."
Furthermore, no fee is applied for exiting. Whilst he would receive less than he was 
anticipating if he decides to exit, Funding Circle gave no guarantee regarding the price he 
would receive if he was able to sell. 
So, taking this all into account, Im satisfied it was fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mr Es 
loan parts on the secondary market and it appropriately considered the impact this would 
have on Mr E before implementing the transfer payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against Funding Circle Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021. 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman