DRN-2094962
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that some funds he transferred from his Lloyds Bank PLC bank account did 
not reach the correct recipient and it took a long time to recover them.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr R made two separate online money transfers from his Lloyds bank 
account to a stocks and shares trading company. The company said it didnt receive the 
funds.
Mr R contacted Lloyds and said that the funds were missing due to an error by the bank. 
Lloyds tried to recover the money but initially contacted the wrong bank. It then contacted 
the correct bank and Lloyds credited one payment back to Mr R in mid-November 2018 and 
the other in January 2019. Lloyds told Mr R that he had provided an incorrect reference 
number, which meant that the money had gone to the wrong account.  However, because of 
its error in contacting the wrong bank and the delay in responding to Mr R, it offered him 
£350 in compensation and said it would pay the cost of his phone calls if he provided an 
itemised phone bill.
Mr R complained to this service. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said that 
Lloyds had acted reasonably in how it tried to recover the funds and that the compensation it 
offered was fair.
As Mr R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 14 July 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to partially uphold the complaint. I said:
The first issue is why Mr Rs money didnt reach the stocks and shares companys bank 
account when he made the online transfer in October 2018. Lloyds said that this was 
because Mr R provided an incorrect reference number. Mr R said that he didnt remember 
providing a reference number. I also looked at the website for the investment company. This 
said that a reference number wasnt required when money was transferred to it as it had 
other methods of confirming relevant details. I explained this to Lloyds and asked why it 
thought the issue related to a reference number. It said we concluded that the reference 
number was wrong as the funds did not reach their destination. 
I have thought about this and I find Lloyds reasoning unpersuasive. Both Mr R and the 
company said that a reference number wasnt required. It appears that Lloyds made an 
assumption very early on in the process about what had gone wrong, before it had even tried 
to recover the money. When the money was located, Lloyds doesnt then seem to have 
looked at why the money had gone astray and just stuck with its original assumption of it 
being due to an incorrect reference number. Ive thought about this and, given that Lloyds 
recovered the money, which in reality was the main issue, I can see that it might not have 
thought there was any reason to do so.
Given the full circumstances of this case, which I discuss further below, I cant say for certain 
why the money didnt reach the company when Mr R made his online transfer. However, I 
dont think the evidence suggests that it was due to something that Mr R did when he made 
the payments. As well as there seeming to be no need for a reference number, there is no 
suggestion that any of the other details that Mr R provided were incorrect. Mr R said that he 
had also previously successfully made payments to this company. I also dont think the 
evidence shows that it was due to a mistake made by Lloyds. The money seems to have 
reached the correct bank  as that is where it was ultimately recovered from  so it appears 
that Lloyds did send the money on as Mr R instructed. 
Nonetheless, I dont think that Lloyds properly looked into why the payments didnt reach 
their destination. So, I have thought about whether there was a consequence of this and 
there seems to have been at least one, which was that as a result of Lloyds assumption that 
Mr R had made the mistake, it downgraded how it tried to recover the money so that it did it 
on a best endeavours basis. But, thinking about this, I cant say with any certainty, 
particularly given the other issues with this case that I will address below, that this meant 
Lloyds recovered the money more slowly than it would have otherwise.
So, turning to the issue of how long Lloyds took to recover all of the money. It initially 
identified an incorrect third party bank (Bank A) as the recipient and so was trying to track 
down the funds in the wrong place. When Lloyds realised its error, which was about a week 
after Mr R made the money transfers, it started the process to recover the money from the 
correct third party bank (Bank B), whose customer was the trading account company. 
However, because of the banking relationship between Bank B and another bank (Bank C), 
Lloyds had to go via Bank C to try and recover the funds from Bank B.
Lloyds contacted Bank C on a number of occasions to get an update on recovering the 
funds. Bank C then had to pass on the requests to Bank B. It appears that the combination 
of having to follow up via Bank C, which then had to get updates from Bank B, meant that it 
took some time to recover the funds. However, I dont think it would be fair to hold Lloyds 
responsible for this. It should be noted that the actions of Bank B and Bank C are not part of 
this complaint, so I am unable to comment any further on their role in the recovery of the 
funds.
I have thought about all of the above and am currently of the view that Lloyds could have 
done more to identify the reason why Mr Rs money didnt reach the company when he 
made the online payments. But, looking at the full circumstances of what happened, I think 
this had little impact, if any, on how long it took to recover the money. Lloyds made a 
mistake by contacting the wrong third party bank to try and recover the money and provided 
confusing information to Mr R while it was trying to recover the funds. However, Lloyds 
realised its mistake fairly quickly and then tried, on several occasions, to get the third party 
bank to recover the money. As a result, although Lloyds did make a mistake, I dont currently 
think it was responsible for the majority of the time that it took to recover the money.
I have also thought about an appropriate level of compensation given the issues Mr R 
experienced. I am aware that Mr R has said that he wanted to buy shares and that he had 
missed out on increases in their value due to the issues with recovering the money. 
However, given that the majority of the delay in recovering the money seems to have been 
due to the actions of third party banks, I dont currently think it would be fair to require Lloyds 
to pay anything in relation to this. 
Lloyds has already offered to pay Mr R £350 in compensation and to refund telephone costs 
for which he provides evidence. In the circumstances, I currently think that is a reasonable 
level of compensation, and in line with what I would have recommended, given the issues 
with how Lloyds initially tried to recover the money but taking into account that the reason the money took so long to recover was most likely outside of its control. Lloyds has 
confirmed that the offer is still available.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 13 August 2020.
Mr R provided a range of comments. This included highlighting how the amount of time it 
took Lloyds to recover the money impacted his mental and physical health and that as the 
regulator, we should hold Lloyds more to account.
Lloyds didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold the complaint in line with my previous 
decision.
Ive considered all of the points raised by Mr R, even if I dont comment on them all here. It 
isnt possible to provide some of the details requested by Mr R in a published document as, 
for example, it wouldnt be appropriate to name third party banks, given that the complaint is 
about Lloyds. 
Mr R has also said that as the regulator we should do more to highlight the issues with how 
Lloyds dealt with recovering this money. However, we are not the regulator and it isnt the 
role of this service to punish or fine financial businesses or to regulate their activities. That is 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. We can, however, investigate individual 
complaints brought by consumers, which is what we have done here.
Ive also read what Mr R has said about the impact of what happened on his mental and 
physical wellbeing. I already thought about this when I considered the original complaint and 
took this into account when I considered what would be an appropriate amount of 
compensation. I am very sympathetic to Mr R for what must have been a very stressful and 
concerning time. However, looking at the full circumstances of what happened and why, I 
wont be asking Lloyds to take any further action or asking it to pay any more compensation 
over and above what I had already said in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Lloyds must pay Mr R the £350 compensation that it previously offered, if it hasnt done so 
already, and refund telephone costs related to this complaint, subject to Mr R providing 
appropriate evidence. In the circumstances, I think that the previous offer of compensation 
by Lloyds was reasonable, and in line with what I would have recommended, given the 
issues with how Lloyds initially tried to recover the money but taking into account that the 
reason the money took so long to recover was most likely outside of its control.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partially uphold this complaint because Lloyds Bank PLC made a mistake when it first tried 
to recover the money. But, I dont uphold the part about how long it took to recover the 
money overall. As a result, I require Lloyds Bank Plc to:Pay Mr R the £350 compensation it previously offered, if it hasnt done so already; and 
Pay Mr Rs phone costs, subject to him providing appropriate evidence of these.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman