DRN-2824053
The complaint
Mr P complained about the advice he received from one of ReAssure Limiteds 
representatives to transfer from his occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He 
further complains that he wasnt properly compensated when the advice was later reviewed.
Mr P is represented in this matter by a claims management company, who Ill refer to below 
as F.
What happened
In 1993 Mr P received advice from ReAssure to transfer his occupational pension to two 
personal pensions. Mr P followed the advice and the transfers were made.
In 2000, as part of an industry wide pension review, ReAssure reviewed the advice Mr P had 
received. Following the review, ReAssure wrote to Mr P with an offer of £2,276.76 (which 
would be paid into his pension plan) to put matters right. It said:
the offer was intended to ensure that on 1 May 2000 Mr Ps plan would be worth the 
same as the benefits which would have remained under his occupational pension had he 
not transferred
the calculation had been done in accordance with the regulators guidelines, although it 
wouldnt be until a claim is made on Mr Ps policies that the exact loss will be known
accepting the offer would prevent Mr P from bringing any further claim against ReAssure 
concerning this matter.
The letter asked Mr P to sign an acceptance form if he wished to accept the offer and, to 
ensure that the offer remained valid, for Mr P to return the form by 1 September 2000. An 
accompanying document  titled Offer of Compensation  said The offer is only valid until 
1 September 2000 and [ReAssure] must be in receipt of the attached acceptance form by 
that date if the offer is to go ahead.
Mr P signed the acceptance form on 19 September 2000 and it was received by ReAssure 
two days later. In October 2000 ReAssure wrote to Mr P to confirm that £2,923.93 had been 
paid into his personal pension.
In September 2019 F complained to ReAssure. F made various points in respect of the 
advice that Mr P received. F also made the following points in respect of the pension review 
and the compensation paid:
Mr P was given the impression that the compensation would put him back in the position 
he would have been in had he not transferred his pension
the compensation paid doesnt come close to putting Mr P in that position.
To resolve the matter F wanted ReAssure to re-calculate Mr Ps losses in line with the 
regulators current guidelines on redress for defined benefit pension transfers.
ReAssure said the matter was finalised in 2000 during the pension review when Mr P 
accepted its offer. It wasnt therefore prepared to look at the advice again.
F complained to us. It referred to the details of the complaint made to ReAssure, and added 
that it felt there were some errors that made the offer (and the acceptance of it) invalid:
Mr P accepted the offer outside of the deadline ReAssure set
the financial assumptions used for the calculation (a management charge of 0.5% and a 
policy fee of £3) were inappropriate given that Mr Ps contributions were invested in a 
with-profits fund
the calculation contained the wording Valid up to SIB Quarter: 01/05/2000 and as that 
quarter ended on 1 August 2000 at the latest the calculation wasnt valid in September 
2000.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld but Mr P didnt accept his 
conclusion. F said:
it is beyond doubt that 0.5% was an inaccurate estimate of the management charge for 
ReAssure's with-profits fund  0.5% was a typical cost for index funds and its well known 
that the effective charges of with-profits funds were significantly higher than those on 
index funds and actively managed funds
the higher charges on with-profits enabled high commissions to be paid; and when the 
commissions were banned sales of with-profits funds plummeted
commission paid was often at least 0.5%, and with-profits funds werent run at a loss
the specifications required that where a business makes assumptions it should make the 
most plausible assumptions it can  which didnt happen in Mr P's case.
ReAssure responded by saying it (and the industry in general) completed thousands of 
calculations  including for consumers invested in with-profits funds  which were all 
checked internally. The process was also overseen by the regulator. And there was never an 
issue with the charge being set at 0.5%. It also confirmed that no trail commission was paid 
on Mr Ps plan. Initial commission was paid, which was paid for through the monthly 
administration charges rather than the assumed management charge.
In response F said it was practically certain that the charges on ReAssure's with-profits fund 
werent as low as 0.5% per year, or anywhere near that figure.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which outlined why was minded to not uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. Ive summarised the content of my provisional decision below as it forms part of 
this final decision.
The advice in 1993
F had outlined the regulations and law it felt were in force at the time of the advice and 
made various arguments as to why it felt the advice Mr P received was inappropriate and why it breached the regulations and law. I didnt consider the points F made material to 
my determination of this complaint because ReAssure had already carried out a review 
of the advice and it did a loss calculation  thereby essentially conceding the issue 
regarding suitability.
In my view, the central issue in the complaint  and what I needed to decide  was more 
about the review of the advice in 2000 and the compensation paid, rather than the 
appropriateness of the advice.
The issue to determine
The issue I needed to determine was whether ReAssure reviewed the advice Mr P 
received to transfer his pension transfer in accordance with the regulators guidance and 
whether it now needed to do anything more to put things right.
The pension review and updated guidance
The pension review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to 
rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers as much as possible back into the 
position they would have been in had they not received inappropriate advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The 
financial business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be 
reinstated into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial 
business needed to put the consumer back into the position they would have been in by 
way of a lumpsum pension contribution. Several assumptions, based on what the 
regulator thought were fair at the time, were used in the redress calculations  including 
the expected future growth rate of the pension funds to produce the required benefits at 
retirement. Most pension reviews were done between 1994 and 2003 and the 
assumptions were revised regularly during that time.
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time 
that the calculation was done and compensation paid. This included where mistakes 
were discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually be done 
using the same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt 
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits 
provided by personal pensions. So although it was thought the compensation paid 
following the review plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to 
match the occupational scheme at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many 
consumers.
But that in itself isnt a reason to redo the pension review and recalculate compensation. 
The review was designed to provide finality to both parties and draw a line under the 
matter  businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that it wouldnt be 
liable for future compensation; and consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling 
had been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be 
reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was 
designed for complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received 
after 3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in 
full and final settlement already.It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the pension review period would be 
excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said 
some cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant 
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where 
the particular circumstances of the case were not addressed by those standards.
The basic arguments
F argued that the review in 2000 wasnt done correctly and was therefore invalid  so the 
compensation should be recalculated using the guidance under FG17/9.
ReAssure felt it had already considered the advice Mr P received in line with the pension 
review guidelines issued by the regulator, it paid compensation in line with those 
guidelines which Mr P accepted in full and final settlement, and it has no obligation to 
look at this again.
The calculations
The management charge for this type of fund was implicit and wasnt levelled directly 
against the investor  it was a cost to the fund which in turn impacted on the funds 
performance. It wasnt possible to accurately calculate the charge. So I couldnt say 
categorically whether a management charge of 0.5% was an accurate assessment of 
likely future cost.
ReAssure said the 0.5% assumption figure was determined by the actuaries who were 
used at the time the review was done. It was felt 0.5% was appropriate for the with-
profits fund as it was in line with that of the managed fund. 
I didnt think ReAssures explanation was so improbable  especially as I hadnt seen 
any evidence to the contrary  for the assumption to be implausible, unfair or 
unreasonable. And as this was a ReAssure pension I thought it could be reasonably 
concluded that it would have been in a good position to know what the rough costs were. 
I was therefore satisfied the 0.5% assumption ReAssure used in the calculation was fair.
ReAssure provided a unit statement for one of Mr Ps policies which showed a monthly 
charge of £1.50. I hadnt seen a similar statement for the other policy but ReAssure 
confirmed to us that the £3 policy fee was split between the two policies. I had no reason 
to doubt what ReAssure had said so I was satisfied the figure ReAssure used in the 
calculation was fair and was based on the actual charge that was levied.
In making my decision I had to take into account what was considered to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time. The pension review was overseen by the 
regulator and assumptions like the ones here were applied in many cases. I hadnt seen 
anything to show that they contravened the regulators guidance and/or werent 
considered to be good industry practice at the time. I couldnt use hindsight and say now, 
on reflection, that the assumptions proved to be so wrong that the calculation should be 
re-done.
Overall, I was satisfied that ReAssure reviewed the advice Mr P received and calculated 
its compensation offer in line with the regulators guidance. I hadnt seen evidence of any 
obvious factual errors in the information used for its calculation. I therefore concluded 
that there are no grounds for me to require ReAssure to re-calculate the offer.Other arguments
Regarding the point F made about Mr P accepting the offer after the deadline set by 
Phoenix, I didnt think the information given to Mr P about the deadline was consistent  
the offer letter asked him to return the form by 1 September 2000 to ensure that the offer 
remained valid (which I didnt think necessarily implied the offer would be invalid or 
otherwise revoked if it wasnt accepted by this date); but the accompanying document 
specifically said the offer was only valid until 1 September 2000 and the acceptance form 
needed to be received by Phoenix if its to go ahead (which I thought was more explicit 
and suggested/said that if the offer wasnt accepted by 1 September 2000 it wouldnt be 
valid.
Even if the offer/acceptance wasnt legally valid, in deciding a complaint Im able to look 
beyond the strict legal position to what I consider fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Irrespective of the deadline, there was an agreement  a meeting of 
minds  in 2000 to resolve the issue over potential losses Mr P might suffer as a result of 
the advice given to transfer away from his occupational pension. This meeting of minds 
continued for nearly 20 years. In the circumstances, I didnt think it was fair to now ignore 
and invalidate that agreement on a potential technicality.
Regarding the calculations not being valid in September 2000 as they were based on a 
quarter ending on 1 August at the latest, our investigator referred to the pension review 
guidelines saying that calculations would be valid provided that cases were settled within 
six months of the calculation date and that businesses could therefore use fund values 
and quarterly assumptions from a previous quarter. As ReAssure sent Mr P a letter on 
11 October 2000 confirming that the compensation had been paid into his pension fund, 
which was within six months of the calculation date, I wasnt persuaded that the 
calculations were invalid on this basis.
Summary
The pension review was a one-off exercise and in 2000 Mr P agreed a final settlement in 
respect of the transfer advice he received. Only in limited circumstances would I look 
beyond that agreement  including when the calculation was wrong. But I wasnt 
satisfied that was the case here as I didnt think there were any factual errors in the 
calculation inputs or that ReAssure wasnt reasonably entitled to use the assumptions 
that it did.
Responses to my provisional decision
ReAssure confirmed that it had nothing further to add.
F said the key question is whether adequate assumptions were made for the costs of the 
personal pension, and it said the answer is no.
F also said I am required to make my decision on a balance of probabilities basis. It referred 
to the part of my provisional decision where I said I was satisfied that the 0.5% assumption 
ReAssure used in the calculation was fair on the basis that I didnt think its explanation was 
so improbable for it to be implausible, unfair or unreasonable. F felt this implied that I believe 
a "beyond reasonable doubt" standard of proof was required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that a key issue in deciding this case concerns the assumptions ReAssure made 
when calculating the appropriate compensation in 2000. However, I explained in my 
provisional decision why I felt the assumptions made  in respect of both the 0.5% 
management charge and the £3 policy fee  were fair.
F has taken from what I said in my provisional decision that I believe a "beyond reasonable 
doubt" standard of proof is required. That's not what I said nor what I intended. Where the 
facts were unclear or in dispute, I made my decision on the balance of probabilities. For the 
avoidance or doubt, I confirm that I find ReAssures explanation as to how it arrived at the 
0.5% assumption persuasive. I've concluded that the assumption was, on the balance of 
probabilities, a fair reflection of the management charge.
Overall, F hasnt said or provided anything in response to my provisional decision that 
persuades me to change my mind. It therefore remains my conclusion that ReAssure treated 
Mr F fairly in using the assumptions it did."
My final decision
Im dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman