DRN-3467953
The complaint
Mr T complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) provided contradictory 
information regarding the termination of a finance agreement he had with them.
What happened
Mr T has been represented at times during this complaint but for ease, and because Mr T is 
named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to him in this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his van under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Moneybarn provided misleading information when Mr T contacted them in June 2021. They 
said, having lost his license, he could continue in his agreement if the van was insured. But 
the terms of his agreement required the van to be insured in his name and he wasnt told 
that.
I dont think an apology was sufficient to compensate Mr T for the inconvenience that 
created, and Id agree with the investigator that Moneybarn should therefore pay him £150 in 
compensation.
I understand that Mr T believes the quote he received in May 2021 to terminate the 
agreement was lower than the one he subsequently received. But I disagree. The quote in 
May was for over £14,000 and the later quote was significantly lower.
Ive also looked at the termination quote Moneybarn sent Mr T by mistake in January 2022. 
By that time the van had been voluntarily terminated by Mr T and I dont think it could be 
taken as a serious offer as its not possible to terminate an agreement that has already been 
terminated. I accept Moneybarns explanation that the quote was sent automatically and by 
mistake and, whilst I can understand Mr T would have wanted to clarify matters, I dont think 
it had any financial impact. The terms and conditions Mr T agreed to at the start of the 
agreement said that to end it Moneybarn would then be entitled to the return of the goods
and to half the total amount payable under the agreement. I can see thats the approach 
Moneybarn took when they provided the voluntary termination settlement to Mr T at the end 
of 2021. I dont think Ive seen sufficient evidence to suggest that final voluntary termination 
quote was wrong and Im not asking Moneybarn to take any further action about that.
Putting things right
Moneybarn should pay Mr T £150 compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused when they provided misleading information to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Moneybarn to pay  
Mr T £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. If Mr T is unable 
to pay the balance on the account immediately Moneybarn will need to show forbearance 
and agree an affordable repayment plan with him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman