DRN-3613692
The complaint
A company Ill call M complains that First Data Europe Limited (First Data) delayed in 
releasing its account balance to M, and provided poor service when M tried to contact First 
Data to resolve the issue.
M is represented by one of its directors, Mr T.
What happened
Between 18 and 31 August 2020, M received a total of £56,947.70 into its First Data 
account. That balance accrued as a result of several payments being rejected by Ms bank, 
after Ms bank closed Ms account. First Data required new bank details for M, which M 
provided and which First Data updated on 21 September 2020. 
But M didnt receive the account balance, so it complained to First Data. First Datas account 
records showed a nil balance for M, so it carried out an investigation to locate Ms funds. It 
located £55,521.93 on 9 December 2020 and returned that amount to M. M queried the 
remaining balance of £1,425.77, which First Data hadnt returned. First Data carried out 
another investigation into the missing funds, which were eventually located and returned to 
M on 12 February 2021.
M had raised a formal complaint, but First Data didnt respond to it (only to a complaint by 
another limited company owned and operated by Mr T), so Mr T brought Ms complaint to 
our service. Our investigator looked at Ms complaint and felt First Data should pay 
compensation to M. She said First Data had sent an initial payment to M on 3 September 
2020, and that it should have returned Ms full balance by 17 September 2020 (2 weeks 
being First Datas timescales for processing payments in these circumstances).
She said First Data hadnt provided any comments to justify the delay in returning Ms funds, 
so she felt First Data should pay M interest at the rate of 8% on Ms account balance for the 
period during which M was deprived of its money. She also thought First Data should pay M 
£250 in respect of the inconvenience First Data caused M while it was investigating the 
missing funds.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators findings. He said M had to borrow money to cope 
without the £56,947.70. And he felt the compensation didnt take into account the months 
First Data took to locate the funds. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do.
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
both Mr T and first Data have said, before reaching my decision.
First Data told our service that the delay in returning Ms funds was caused by Ms bank, 
saying it was waiting for the payments to reject back from Ms bank. However, Ive seen 
evidence from Ms bank that demonstrates it had blocked Ms account before any of the 
payments in question were made, and that shows, on the balance of probabilities, that the 
payments were returned promptly by Ms bank. 
First Data also told our service that the funds were on hold because M didnt have an active 
bank account. But it told our service that matter was completed on 21 September 2020, its 
internal notes and emails to M acknowledge the funds were missing, and First Data later 
wrote to M confirming it had located the funds (which suggests they were missing rather than 
not received). And I havent seen anything from First Data to demonstrate that the funds 
were missing because they hadnt reached First Data.
And, when our investigator asked for an explanation of the delay, First Data simply said it 
had to wait for the funds to be returned and keyed on its internal systems. But, as Ive said 
above, Ive seen evidence from Ms bank to show that it had sent the money back to First 
Data.
So, on balance Im not persuaded that First Data returned Ms account balance as promptly 
as it should have. And First Data hasnt been able to demonstrate it wasnt at fault for 
delaying the return of Ms funds.
Because it didnt return the funds then, Im persuaded First Data should pay M 
compensation from that date up to the date it did send the money, to compensate M for the 
time it was deprived of the use of those funds. First Data said it can take 2 weeks to process 
these payments and it sent an initial payment on 3 September 2020. So, I take the view that 
First Data should have returned Ms funds by 17 September 2020.
In response to our investigators view, M said the compensation award didnt take into 
account the time it took First Data to locate the funds, and that M would have suffered 
serious harm, had it not been able to borrow money from its directors.
However, Im satisfied the compensation our investigator awarded puts M back in the 
position it would have been in, had First Data returned Ms funds when it should have. While 
I accept M might have been put into difficulty, had it not been able to borrow money from its 
directors, fortunately it was able to mitigate its losses by borrowing the funds. And I cant 
reasonably award compensation for hypothetical losses M might have suffered, had 
circumstances been different.
And Im satisfied that an award of interest at the rate of 8% does in fact compensate M for 
the time it went without access to its funds because of an avoidable delay. Our investigator 
suggested interest for the period First Data caused delays, so that award covers the full 
period during which M was deprived of its funds. And M hasnt provided any evidence to 
show it suffered a loss greater than the compensation our investigator suggested.
With regard to our investigators award of £250, it might help if I explain the parameters our 
service must operate under for such compensation payments. I do have the power to make 
an award for distress and inconvenience a customer experiences, but the issue here is that 
First Datas customer is M, a limited company. A limited company of course cant feel distress, and I cant make an award for any distress experienced by Ms directors or staff as 
they are not First Datas customer. 
However, I can make an award for any inconvenience M experienced as a result of its 
directors attention being diverted away from day-to-day duties. And I can see M had to 
chase First Data on a number of occasions, and follow-up when First Data didnt resolve all 
of Ms issues, for example when First Data returned only part of Ms balance, leaving a 
further £1,425.77 outstanding. 
First Data claims the FRL it sent to another of Mr Ts companies was intended to include M, 
but there was no indication within that letter to suggest that was the case. Mr T still brought 
Ms complaint to our service, so the impact of First Datas mistake here was relatively minor. 
But I accept this would have caused some confusion to M, and I accept M experienced a 
reasonable amount of inconvenience as a result of poor service on First Datas part. So, to 
put matters right, First Data should pay M £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that First Data Europe Limited must pay M:
1. 8% simple interest on the balance of £55,521.93 from 17 September 2020 to 9 
December 2020;
2. 8% simple interest on the balance of £1,425.77 from 17 September 2020 to 12 
February 2021; and
3. £250 in recognition of the inconvenience it caused M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman