DRN-3750441
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) mishandled
their claim on their home insurance policy.
Where I refer to RSA, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include its
appointed drainage company and others insofar as I hold RSA responsible for their acts or
omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a house completed in 2012. The house
had a warranty against building defects.
From at least late August 2021, Mr and Mrs M had the house insured on a home insurance
policy branded with the name of a building society. RSA was the insurance company
responsible for dealing with any claim.
In early September 2021, Mr and Mrs M had a smell coming from their drains. So they made
a claim to RSA for help under the policy. RSA appointed a drainage company who in turn
appointed another company who did a CCTV survey in mid-September 2021. RSA declined
to help further.
Mr and Mrs M complained to RSA that it shouldve done more to meet their claim. By a final
response dated mid-October 2021, RSA turned down the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to us in mid-November 2021.
Mr and Mrs M also made a claim on the building warranty. In early May 2022, the warranty
provider accepted their claim.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the
policy doesnt cover poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials. She thought that the
expert drainage report showed that the fault found was caused by an installation issue, 
which is an uninsurable risk. So RSA had acted in line with the policy terms to turn down the
claim.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs M and to RSA on 8 October 2022. I summarise my findings:
Mr and Mrs M had endured the smell since September 2021. But I wasnt minded to 
find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to do any more in response to their 
complaint. That was for each of the following reasons:
Although the drainage companys report didnt mention the displaced joints as an 
issue, Mr M knew about them on 17 September 2021. The warranty provider also 
did a CCTV survey which didnt regard the displaced joints as a major fault. They 
were at least 13 metres downstream of rodding eye 1. So they were on the first 
drain run. The displaced joints were nothing to do with the leak the warranty 
provider found in the area of rodding eye 2, at the upstream end of the second 
drain run outside the utility room.
The warranty providers water test in April 2022 identified the leak in the area of 
rodding eye 2. Yet - even after some opening up - Mr M was still saying in July 
2022 that the exact cause of the leak hadnt been found and that the source of 
the smell was still unknown. So the water test hadnt provided a solution quickly 
or at all. I wasnt persuaded that RSAs omission to do a water test made much 
difference to the time for which Mr and Mrs M had endured the smell.
By 1 March 2022, Mr M had made a claim to the warranty provider. That is strong 
evidence that he had claimed that the drain issue was as a result of poor 
construction. And the warranty provider accepted that claim. So the drain issue 
under the utility room resulted from poor construction that RSAs policy excluded.
As some of my reasons were different from the investigators, I considered it only fair 
that Mr and Mrs M (and RSA) should have an opportunity to respond to a provisional 
decision.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs M or from RSA, my provisional decision 
was that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M disagree with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
His willingness to disclose his business with the warranty provider has been used 
against him.
He is uncertain as to why the warranty provider has responded, but thankfully they 
have. The cause and exact location of the leak has still not been established but the 
warranty provider has now done a bypass to work around the leak.
The statement that the drain issue under the utility room resulted from poor 
construction is pure conjecture. He made a claim to the warranty provider not 
because he thought it was down to poor construction, but because he did not know 
(and he still doesnt know) the cause of the leak and he had an obligation to notify any 
possible claims.
He asks that we ensure that all references or mention of the warranty provider or 
anything in connection with the warranty are removed from the final decision.
RSA hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman ServiceWe base our decisions on the evidence we receive.
We are impartial. We decide whether its fair to accept a request either from the consumer or 
from the business.
We publish our final decisions on our website. We anonymise any personal information that 
may identify the consumer.
In the case of Mr and Mrs M, I cannot give my reasons without mentioning the warranty.
The policy terms
The policy had a section covering buildings, including cover for an escape of water (with no
financial limit) and for trace and access (up to a limit of £10,000.00). The policy also had a
section covering home emergencies (up to a limit of £500.00).
RSAs policy terms included the following:
What we cover
Damage to your buildings caused by the following:

4. Water escaping from washing machines, dishwashers, fixed water or fixed heating
systems

17.Trace and access. Finding a leak: if its necessary to remove and replace any part
of your buildings to find the source of a water or oil leak from a heating or water
system, well pay the cost.

20. Accidental breakage of drains and pipes used to provide services to or from your
home, which your family is legally responsible for. If a drain or pipe is blocked and
normal methods of removing it are unsuccessful, such as rodding or jetting between
the main sewer and your home, well then pay the cost of breaking into and
repairing the pipe
So RSA covered damage to the buildings from certain causes. That included damage 
caused by water escaping from fixed water systems.
It also included damage caused by removing part of the buildings to find the source of a leak
from a water system. I consider that the words well pay the cost mean that RSA will pay
the cost of opening up surfaces as well as the cost of repairing the damage to them.
Accidental damage to drains would involve something sudden.
RSAs policy terms excluded the following:
Policy exclusions
The following exclusions apply to all the types of cover available with your policy.

Uninsurable risks - Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or
indirectly caused by or resulting from:
 any damage that occurs over time as a result of normal use or ageing including
fading, corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould, condensation or
deterioration

Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly causedby, or resulting from, the following (except as covered by Home Emergency Cover if
youve chosen this for your policy):

 poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials.
So all types of cover under the policy (including trace and access) excluded cost resulting
from damage that occurs as a result of normal use or ageing.
And cover under the policy (including trace and access but excluding home emergency)
excluded cost resulting from poor design, workmanship or materials.
The home emergency section might cover cost (up to £500.00) resulting from poor design,
workmanship or materials. But the home emergency section provided as follows:
Youre covered if theres an emergency at your home which:
 makes your home unsafe or insecure for you; or
 causes damage to your home or its contents; or
 results in your home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water (hot or
cold).
So the home emergency section only covered an emergency that involved, for example, the 
home becoming unsafe or losing its hot or cold water.
Consideration of the events
The smell in Mr and Mrs Ms home was unpleasant and made them fear for their health. But
theres not enough evidence that their home was unsafe for them. And theres still not
enough evidence to show exactly where the leak was coming from - or going to. So I dont
think theres enough evidence to show that it was causing damage to their home.
The CCTV company sent the drainage company a job card and a report. The job card
included the following:
full cctv survey was carried out from side rodding point and rear [rodding] point to
foul manhole front of property to identify any defects or displacement [within] foul line
x2 joint displacements were detected within the main line leading to foul manhole
also slight dip on connection between [pipe] work and [manhole] this is causing foul
waste to hold before entering manhole
The survey report dealt separately with the two drain runs. The first was of 19.31 metres
from rodding eye number 1 to the manhole. The second was of 18.90 metres from rodding
eye number 2 to the manhole.
The CCTV survey noted two displaced joints in the first run. They were respectively
displacements of 20mm and 25mm in joints at 13.62 metres and at 16.71 metres
downstream from rodding eye 1. The survey categorised these as respectively structural
grade 4 and structural grade 5 on a scale of defects on which grade 5 was the most
serious and meaning Pipe is already or will shortly be impermeable.
The drainage company did a report to RSA. it said the following:
found the connection from the run of RE1 to MH1 to be holding water but is not
leaking to ground.
The above is deemed to be an installation issue and is not covered under the terms
of the policy.The remainder of both runs were deemed to be in a serviceable condition with no
issues being found
The drainage companys report didnt mention the displaced joints as an issue. But Mr M
sent an email dated 17 September 2021. Referring to the CCTV survey, he said the
following:
They found a couple of joints under the house that were not right and the connection
to the manhole outside had dropped slightly.
So he was aware of the displaced joints as well as the issue around the manhole.
RSAs final response included the following:
Following [drainage companys] investigation, they were unable to find a leak or
broken pipe when carrying out the CCTV survey but observed there is evidence of
poor installation around the manhole. As there is no damage consistent with an
insured event, they turned down your claim.

Id like to respectfully draw your attention to page 17 and 18 of your policy booklet
where we detail the policy exclusions. For your ease the exclusion Im referring to
reads as follows;
Uninsurable risks  Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly
or indirectly caused by or resulting from:
- Wear and tear, fading, corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould,
condensation or deterioration, or anything that happens gradually over a period of
time.
- Poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials.
So the final response did refer to the exclusions of uninsurable risks such as wear and tear
or poor workmanship.
At around the same time, RSA sent an email including the following:
I have discussed the situation with a senior technical adviser at [the drainage
company] and he reviewed the footage with me.
He thinks that the build up of water around the manhole at 19.64m is the likely cause
of the smell.
He mentioned evidence of a previous back up on the brickwork that looks to have
cleared.
Unfortunately this is an installation issue and not an insured accidental breakage.
Since RSAs email was based on CCTV footage, I prefer Mr Ms statement that the manhole
is of plastic rather than brickwork. That casts doubt on the CCTV review. So I also accept Mr
Ms statement that there was no evidence that the manhole had previously backed up.
A report from the warranty provider included the following:
Drainage contractor  visited the property on 1 March 2022, smells were evident
within the property, especially the utility room, a cctv survey was carried out to main
foul drains and found no major faults. A second visit was then required to investigate
the drainage at the utility room. This occurred on 21 April 2022, faulty drainage was
identified after water testing in the utility room.
So  some months after RSAs survey in September 2021- the warranty providers drainagecontractor had done another CCTV survey and found no major faults. But it had later found
faulty drainage in the utility room.
The report form the warranty provider includes photographs of rodding point 2 outside the
gable wall of the utility room, and of water leaking in that area.
The report from the warranty provider also included the following: 
Section 3 of the policy provides cover if there is damage to the home because a part 
of the property (as listed in Section 3 of the policy booklet), wasnt built to comply 
with our mandatory requirements and the cost of repair is more than the minimum 
claim value
This item meets all of the conditions that are required in order to be accepted under 
the policy. 
From that, I find that the warranty provider had responded positively to Mr and Mrs M  
because it concluded that their home hadnt been built to comply with its mandatory 
requirements. So I find it fair to say that the evidence from the warranty provider is that the 
drain issue under the utility room resulted from poor construction.
The warranty provider produced a schedule of work to excavate and reinstate the utility room
floor at a cost of about £3,800.00 plus VAT, a total of about £4,500.00. In early May 2022,
the warranty provider offered to pay those amounts to Mr M.
I infer that Mr M didnt accept that offer, as in late May 2022, the warranty provider
instructed a repair company (according to an email Mr M sent in early July 2022).
On 11 July 2022, Mr M sent an email to the warranty provider saying that he had opened up
part of the floor.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr M has said that the warranty provider has done a 
bypass to work around the leak.
Conclusion
Mr and Mrs M endured the smell from September 2021 to at least July 2022. But I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to do any more in response to their complaint. That is for 
each of the following reasons:
Although the drainage companys report didnt mention the displaced joints as an 
issue, Mr M knew about them on 17 September 2021. The warranty provider also 
did a CCTV survey which didnt regard the displaced joints as a major fault. They 
were at least 13 metres downstream of rodding eye 1. So they were on the first 
drain run. The displaced joints were nothing to do with the leak the warranty 
provider found in the area of rodding eye 2, at the upstream end of the second 
drain run outside the utility room.
The warranty providers water test in April 2022 identified the leak in the area of 
rodding eye 2. Yet - even after some opening up and a bypass - Mr M is still 
saying that the exact cause of the leak hasnt been found. So the water test 
hadnt provided a solution quickly or at all. Im not persuaded that RSAs omission 
to do a water test made much difference to the time for which Mr and Mrs M 
endured the smell.
By 1 March 2022, Mr M had made a claim to the warranty provider. And the warranty provider accepted that claim. So the drain issue under the utility room 
resulted from poor construction that RSAs policy excluded. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman