DRN-2983467
The complaint
Mrs C complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In June 2018 Mrs C was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS. The contract ended in June 2021.
MBFS arranged for the car to be inspected. Mrs C was present at the first inspection and 
signed to acknowledge that there were no charges.
Following this, a second inspection was carried out where damage was identified. MBFS 
invoiced Mrs C for damage charges.
Mrs C disputed the charges. She said she hadnt been made aware that a second inspection 
was being carried out and said shed already been advised that there was no damage and 
had signed to acknowledge this.
In response, MBFS said that the purpose of the first inspection was to ensure the car was 
roadworthy, and the second inspection was carried out by a specialist team at a different 
location. MBFS said that at the second inspection, damage was identified which went 
beyond acceptable wear and tear, and that the charges remained payable.
Mrs C remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think MBFS had acted unfairly by 
arranging the seconds inspection. He reviewed the damage and said he thought the charges 
had been applied fairly.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said the damage wasnt there when the car was returned, and she 
thought it had occurred post collection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs C must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report, including the photos. Looking at the damage identified, 
Im satisfied that it exceeds acceptable wear and tear in accordance with the relevant 
guidelines. So, I think the charges have been applied fairly.
Ive taken into account what Mrs C has said about the second inspection and Ive thought 
about whether MBFS acted fairly in carrying this out. On balance, I dont think MBFs has 
done anything wrong here. The first inspection is usually a relatively short inspection to 
check that the car is roadworthy. I can see that all items on the first inspection were marked 
to be advised, so I think it was made clear that a further, more detailed inspection would 
take place. Following the second inspection, MBFS advised Mrs C of the charges within the 
recommended 28 day timescale. Taking everything into consideration, Im unable to say that 
MBFS did anything wrong here or acted unfairly.
Mrs C has said she doesnt think the damage was present when the car was returned. 
Theres no record of a collision post collection  and looking  at the photos, I think its more 
likely that the damage identified is longstanding  (as opposed to very recent) damage. On 
balance, I think the damage was likely to have been present prior to the car being collected.
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint and I wont be asking MBFS to 
waive any charges.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint,.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman