DRN-4470723
The complaint
Mr M complains about the incorrect information provided by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
following a salary payment being recovered from his account. Mr M says this has had a 
significant impact on him and his familys health and wellbeing both financially and mentally 
and doesnt believe the level of compensation Lloyds has paid is enough.
What happened
Mr M held an account with Lloyds where he had his salary paid into. Mr Ms employer was 
going into administration and advised Mr M of this on 30 May. Mr M says following this he 
discovered several of his colleagues had had their salaries deducted from their bank 
accounts without their consent. Lloyds received a notification from the third party payment 
service provider the same day that a file reversal was going to take place due to Mr Ms 
employers status and the late notification of this. 
On 31 May a salary payment of around £4,000 was credited Mr Ms account, this was then 
debited from his account the following day when the file reversal was actioned. To try and 
circumvent the recall of his salary Mr M moved £3,200 out of his account before his salary 
payment was recalled. The recovery of this salary payment resulted in Mr Ms account going 
into unauthorised overdraft. 
Mr M spent some time on the phone with Lloyds about this and was provided with incorrect 
information about recovery of the payment and among other things being able to make a 
direct debit indemnity claim. The false assurances left Mr M feeling confused about whether 
his salary payment could be recalled and further distressed when he discovered it could and 
nothing could be done about it.
Mr M complained to Lloyds that his salary had been recalled and the service he had 
received regarding this. Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint regarding the recall of the funds 
as it said no error had been made on its part and that it had no involvement or control over 
this type of recall. But it agreed that at points it had provided Mr M with poor service, having 
calls cut off and providing him with incorrect and misleading advice  in particular that once a 
credit had reached his account it couldnt be taken back. Lloyds credited Mr Ms account with 
£90 then a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience this caused. Lloyds also stopped 
any overdraft fees being applied to his account until 10 July 2023.
Mr M was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service.
Mr M says Lloyds shouldve blocked the recovery of his salary payment and as a result of 
what happened:
He felt compelled to close his and other family accounts with Lloyds as he was 
concerned future credits from the account may be liable to be recovered again; 
The impact all this has had on his credit score meant he was unable to obtain credit 
cards or loans for the days his account was in unplanned overdraft;
He lost hours in dealing with the issue when he couldve spent the time searching for 
a job.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think Lloyds had made an 
error in allowing the recovery of the payment. But they agreed that Lloyds had provided 
incorrect advice regarding the recovery of the payment and its attempts to get the payment 
back under the direct debit indemnity scheme was also wrong, but reached the conclusion 
that the compensation Lloyds had offered was fair for its part in what happened and they 
didnt think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to compensate Mr M for events that may or may not 
have happened and that were outside of its control.
Mr M disagreed, he believes there has been a significant gap in understanding the depth of 
the difficulties hes faced due to Lloyds actions. He doesnt believe the compensation offer of 
£290 for distress, emotional strain and adverse effects on his family is enough and knows of 
others who have received more compensation in similar circumstances and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I hope Mr M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive summarised his complaint in the 
way that I have, ours is an informal dispute resolution service and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint  the impact the recovery of the payment of his 
salary has had on him and his family both financially and emotionally. Our rules allow me to 
do that. 
I also want to emphasise that Ive considered Mr Ms complaint on its own merits and my 
decision is based solely on this and what part Lloyds contributed to Mr Ms problems and 
what I consider a fair and reasonable outcome for him and Lloyds. 
Our investigator has already explained that Lloyds allowing the recall of the payment for 
around £4,000 was not an error on its part  it was an action taken by a third party following 
notification that this was going to happen and the reasons why, to both Mr M and Lloyds and 
was not something Lloyds had any control over. So I dont think Lloyds made a mistake here 
or treated Mr M unfairly and I dont think there is anything much more of use I can add.
Because the recovery of the payment resulted in Mr Ms account going into unauthorised 
overdraft Mr M says this has negatively impacted his credit score and he was unable to 
obtain credit cards, loans and other financial products for a period of time. But again, as the 
recovery wasnt a mistake or error on Lloyds part, I cant say that Lloyds is at fault here or for 
reporting the status of his account to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to  as 
banks have a duty to report factually accurate information on its customers affairs. 
Also, as I understand it Mr M contributed to his account going into this unauthorised position 
by transferring £3,200 out of his account with the knowledge that his salary was going to be 
recalled. 
Mr M has also told us that at the time he was in significant debt and unable to meet his 
familys basic needs  so bearing this in mind I think its likely it wasnt just Mr Ms account 
with Lloyds that was negatively impacting his credit score.
Mr M says that he felt compelled to close all accounts with Lloyds as he was concerned that 
future payments could also be subject to recovery. But this was his decision to make and as 
I understand it the same thing could happen at other banks faced with the same 
circumstances  indeed, Mr M has told us that others also had their salaries deducted from their bank accounts without their consent.
Lloyds have already accepted it made a mistake in the information provided to Mr M 
regarding the recall of his salary and have paid Mr M £290 compensation. So what I need to 
consider is whether this is enough for the distress and inconvenience Mr M says he suffered. 
And I think it is. I appreciate Mr M says he spent a significant amount of time on the phone to 
Lloyds following up on the recovery of his salary when he couldve been searching for a job. 
And I dont doubt he was focused on the recovery of his salary  it was a significant amount. 
But I think the £290 is fair compensation for the time Mr M spent chasing this up. Ultimately, 
Mr Ms position financially was going to be the same regardless of the advice Lloyds gave  
because Lloyds wasnt able to stop the recall or reverse it. And although Lloyds did provide 
incorrect information around this, this wasnt the start or cause of Mr Ms main complaint 
point  being the recall of his salary from his account. 
I sympathise with Mr M and the difficult financial circumstances he has found himself in. But 
this was not due to Lloyds actions or within its control and wasnt as a direct result of a 
mistake made by Lloyds. So I think the £290 paid by Lloyds for its part in providing incorrect 
information is a fair offer as Im not persuaded the detriment Mr M has suffered was mainly 
due Lloyds errors.
So this being the case, I think the compensation already paid by Lloyds is fair and Im not 
going to ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided that the £290 compensation paid by Lloyds 
Bank PLC to Mr M is a fair way to settle his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman