DRN-3487544
The complaint
Miss W complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss W acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law is the Consumer Rights Act (2015). That says, amongst other things, that 
the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who 
are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss W. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed about 61,000 so I think a reasonable person 
would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be present.
The relevant law says that if a fault is identified in the first six months of ownership, as is the 
case here, we are to assume the fault was present when the car was supplied (when the 
business are responsible for the cars quality) unless the business can demonstrate 
otherwise.
Im persuaded BMF have demonstrated that the fault with the timing chain and guides isnt 
something they can fairly be held responsible for rectifying. I say that because the 
independent engineer, who is an expert on these issues, has suggested the faults the car is 
experiencing would be expected in a vehicle of this age and mileage and are the result of 
fatigue and wear. They should therefore be considered normal wear and tear. 
Theres no evidence the current faults are linked to the turbo issues Miss W experienced 
with the car earlier in 2021 either so, on balance, I dont think BMF have done anything 
wrong here and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman