DRN-3210368
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him incorrect information about how 
quickly money he had transferred would be credited to his Barclays Investment Saver 
account, a share dealing account. As a result of this incorrect information Mr H says he did 
not have the money available in his share dealing account to place a trade before the next 
valuation point for the fund he wanted to buy.
What happened
Mr H has explained that between October and December 2020 he made 11 transfers of 
money from his Barclays bank account into his Barclays Investment Saver account. He then 
invested the money shortly after it had been credited to his share dealing account. 
Mr H says that on each occasion he received a message on his Investment Saver account 
saying:
Your cash to invest status will be updated to include your last deposit within 30 minutes.
On each of these previous occasions Mr H says the money appeared in his share dealing 
account within 30 minutes.
At around 9.30am on 4 December Mr H initiated a transfer of £40,000 to his share dealing 
account. Mr H has explained that he wanted to use this money to purchase units in a fund 
before its next valuation point and therefore needed to place the trade before 11am.
Mr H received the same message he had received on previous occasions saying that his 
cash to invest status would be updated to include his most recent transfer within 30 
minutes.
But Mr H says that his cash to invest wasnt updated to show the transfer he had made until 
after the 11am cut off point for trades to be placed before the next valuation point for the 
fund. 
Mr H placed his trade once the money was available in his share dealing account, but 
missed the valuation point on 4 December 2020. Unfortunately, the unit price had increased, 
and Mr H says the movement in the unit price meant he missed out on a gain of £459.00. 
Mr H complained to Barclays about the financial impact the delay on updating the cash to 
invest status had on his ability to invest before the next valuation point for the fund.
Barclays apologised for the loss of expectation Mr H had suffered and offered to pay him 
£100 for the inconvenience this had caused him. It explained that it could take up to four 
hours to move money between accounts (and longer if the transfer was made after 10pm or 
on a Sunday).
Mr H didnt accept Barclays offer and referred his complaint to this service. He said he felt 
Barclays should compensate him for the gain he had missed out on as a result of the 
movement in the unit price  a total of £459 based on the amount Mr H invested in the fund.
Our investigator said he felt the offer Barclays had made was fair. He explained that 
although the message Mr H had received saying his cash to invest would be updated to 
include the most recent deposit within 30 minutes, this didnt mean that the transfer from his 
bank account to his dealing account would take 30 minutes or less. He said it meant that 
once the money had been transferred to Barclays Smart Investor it would be allocated to Mr 
Hs share dealing account  and appear as available cash to invest within 30 minutes. 
He noted that Barclays website sets out that faster payments can take up to two hours. And 
he explained that Barclays didnt control the faster payment service, so it wouldnt be 
reasonable to hold it responsible for the delay Mr H had experienced.
But he said he did think that, having seen a message saying,
Your cash to invest status will be updated to include your last deposit within 30 minutes. 
Mr H had, not unreasonably, understood this to mean that the transfer would be completed 
within 30 minutes.
So, although he didnt think Barclays was responsible for any delays in processing the 
payment, he said he thought the message Mr H received about the timescale was unclear 
and this had resulted in a loss of expectation.
To put matters right he said he felt the £100 Barclays had offered Mr H was fair. He said he 
didnt think it would be reasonable to ask Barclays to compensate Mr H for the increase in 
the unit price of the fund as he didnt think the delay in the money reaching Mr Hs share 
dealing account was something he could reasonably hold Barclays responsible for.
Mr H did not accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he was,
  unhappy that on multiple previous occasions Barclays provided incorrect information 
about payment timeframes in an online message which I relied upon to my detriment in 
deciding when to instruct a payment of funds into my Smart Investor account, having 
decided in advance that I would purchase a specific investment on 4 December 2020.
He said he felt Barclays was fully responsible for the gain he had missed out on, as he felt it 
had given him incorrect information each time he had transferred money into his share 
dealing account.
Mr H accepted that Barclays explained on its website that faster payments can take up to 
two hours but he said he felt this did not  diminish the reasonableness of my trusting the 
information specifically issued to me in the message sent on the 11 recently prior occasions 
as I had no reason to doubt or question this at the time.
Mr H reiterated that he would have given the transfer instruction on 3 December 2020 if he 
had been aware that it could take longer than 30 minutes for money he had transferred to be 
available in his share dealing account.
He said he felt the £100 Barclays had offered to pay him was insufficient as it did not fully 
reflect   the actual impact and financial detriment that I incurred as a result of being misled 
by the incorrect information sent on the 11 occasions immediately prior to 4 December 
2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am sympathetic to Mr Hs position and I have reviewed the screens and messages he 
would have seen each time he transferred money into his share dealing account as well as 
the information on Barclays website. 
I note that the screen that was displayed asking Mr H to confirm that he wanted to go ahead 
with a transfer between his Barclays bank account and his Barclays Investment Saver said:
Please note:
Cash transfers between your Barclays accounts are usually instant but can take up to 2 
hours.
Once Mr H had confirmed that he wanted to go ahead with the transfer he then received the 
message saying:
Your cash to invest status will be updated to include your last deposit within 30 minutes.
I can see why Mr H took this to mean that the money he was transferring into his share 
dealing account would be available to invest within 30 minutes. 
As Mr H may be aware, the faster payment service involves a number of checks on both the 
payment instructions and the receiving account as well as security checks. The messages 
that Mr H saw when he made the transfers referred to this two-stage process. 
I do understand why Mr H thought that the money he had transferred would be available to 
invest within 30 minutes, but this message only referred to the second step of the process  
once the money had actually been received by Barclays Smart Investor.
I appreciate that if this message is read in isolation the clear impression would be that the 
money would be available to invest within the next 30 minutes, not within 30 minutes of the 
money being received by Barclays Smart Investor. But when read in conjunction with the 
previous message, and the information on Barclays website about faster payments, I think it 
was sufficiently clear that a transfer between Barclays accounts could take up to two hours.
I am mindful of Mr Hs comments that his past experience had led him to expect that any 
transfer into his dealing account from his Barclays bank account would be available to invest 
within 30 minutes of instructing the transfer. But as I have set out above, I am satisfied that 
Barclays had explained that there was no guarantee that the transfer would be instant, and 
could take up to two hours.
As this is the case, although I am sympathetic to Mr Hs position, I think Barclays did provide 
adequate warnings that a transfer from a Barclays bank account to a Barclays Smart 
Investor Account could take up to 2 hours.
Barclays has offered Mr H £100 for the loss of expectation he has suffered. I think this offer 
is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. I dont think Barclays needs to do any more to 
put matters right.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered Mr H £100 for the loss of expectation he suffered when 
he was unable to trade before 11am on 4 December 2020. I think this offer is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I dont think Barclays needs to do any more to put matters 
right. I simply leave it to Mr H to decide if he now wishes to accept Barclays offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman