DRN-1967419
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mrs G is the main party that is making the complaint, so I will mostly just be referring to Mrs 
G.
What happened
The policy was taken out in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagree with the adjudicators 
view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in May 2020 in which I explained why I wasnt considering 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Mrs G provided some further comments and 
evidence that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
YBS no longer has any paperwork from the sale and could not determine how or when the 
policy was sold, although it did have a record of the policy still being in force in 1998. Its not 
surprising that YBS no longer has any documentation, but this does make the complaint 
more difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do 
have, as well as what I consider is more likely to have happened. I have also thought about 
how long ago the sale was and how this may have affected Mrs Gs recollection of events.
Mrs G says she recalls taking out the PPI in branch, during the same meeting in which they 
were arranging the mortgage. She says they were led to believe that they had to take out all 
of the offered insurances as part of getting the mortgage agreed. In response to my 
provisional decision Mrs G is adamant that she didnt take out the PPI in 1996 but insists that 
it was taken out earlier, at the same time as the mortgage and that Mr Gs recollection is the 
same.
Although Mrs G is convinced that she took out the PPI earlier, the evidence that has been 
provided suggests otherwise. Mrs G has been able to provide a copy of her 1996 mortgage 
statement. It describes the PPI as ASU which is short for accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. The statement details total premiums paid for PPI during that year as 
being £42.76. The PPI cost £21.38 per month, so the statement shows that only two months 
worth of payments were made in 1996. This therefore shows that the policy started in November 1996 (as we know the policy was still active in 1998). As the mortgage was 
already running in November 1996, the evidence suggests that the PPI was sold separately 
to the mortgage. As the mortgage account was already live, I dont think Mrs G can have 
thought that she had to agree to the policy as a condition of the lending.
I appreciate the strength of Mrs Gs feelings and I have no doubt that she has provided her 
genuine recollection of events. But the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if her memory of it has faded. On balance, based on the available evidence, I am 
satisfied that the PPI policy started in November 1996. It seems to me that Mrs G probably 
decided to buy the policy, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers 
doing so.
Mrs G says they didnt know that they had the policy because, although they were made to 
have it, they didnt know what ASU was and assumed it was just general insurance. She 
says that, had they known what it was, they could have claimed when Mr G was off work 
sick.
Mr and Mrs G were going through a separation in 1996. Mrs G has provided evidence that 
they were definitely separated by August 1996. She says that she took over the mortgage 
payments when they separated, with Mr Gs name being eventually taken off the mortgage 
altogether.
YBS hasnt been able to provide any evidence of the policy itself, such as if it was a joint or 
single policy. But, bearing in mind that the couple was already separated in November 1996, 
and Mrs Gs circumstances were then that she was making the mortgage repayments on her 
own, it seems likely that the policy was set up just to cover Mrs G. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs G says she finds it offensive that Ive suggested 
she may have taken the policy out for herself when she wasnt looking for more insurance 
and was only interested in taking over the mortgage. It was not my intention to cause 
offence, I was merely pointing out that it would seem unlikely that the PPI would have been 
taken out to cover Mr G for the mortgage repayments at a time when Mrs G was already 
making all of the repayments herself due to the couple being separated. The policy being set 
up just to cover Mrs G would certainly explain why Mr G would have been unable to make a 
claim. 
I dont know if YBS advised Mrs G to buy the policy. If it did, in recommending it to her, it 
would have needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for her.
Given the nature of Mrs Gs employer, it is likely that her sick pay entitlement would have 
been six months full pay, followed by six months half pay. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs G would have received full 
pay for. Mrs G had some savings, but having the policy would have allowed her to retain 
these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs G has provided evidence of other insurance 
policies that she had at the time. But these were both life insurance policies and therefore 
covered a different risk from that covered by the PPI. So the PPI wasnt duplicating Mrs Gs 
existing cover. Overall, I consider that Mrs G had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it.
I think that Mrs G must have known something about the PPI  that it would cover her 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment 
 because I dont think shed have decided to take it out (and I have found above that she probably did decide to take it out) without knowing anything at all about it. Its possible that 
YBS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, particularly about 
the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs G wasnt affected by any of those things. As I consider 
she had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information 
would have caused her to change her mind. So Mr and Mrs G are no worse off as a result of 
anything YBS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that YBS needs to do to put things 
right.
 
 
My final decision
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman