DRN-1676967
The complaint
Mrs W says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs W took out a credit card and PPI through the post in 1998. The PPI helped protect her 
credit card payments in the event of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs W didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice about taking out PPI and 
get her agreement before adding it. She says it didnt do those things. But Ive seen a copy 
of Mrs Ws signed postal credit card application form and theres a tick to indicate she 
wanted PPI. The box to decline PPI was left blank.
Overall, I think Barclays made it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice about taking out PPI 
and that she chose to take it. I can understand if she doesnt recall that now after so many 
years.
Ive gone on to consider if there are any other reasons why I might uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint, but I dont think there are. Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W. But it still 
ought to have provided Mrs W with clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI 
so that she could decide for herself if it was suitable. 
I cant say for sure whether Barclays did that. And, understandably, Barclays hasnt been 
able to provide a copy of the policy terms from the time. But, from what I know of Mrs Ws 
circumstances and of what the main policy features likely were, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking it. I say that because:
It seems Mrs W would have been eligible for the cover. And I dont believe shed 
have decided against the PPI because of its main exclusions and restrictions. 
Mrs W says she was entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy pay from her 
employer, and that she could have relied on family help if she wasnt working. But the 
PPI would have paid out on top of all that, and for up to 12 months per claim. Also 
the PPI benefits, unlike help from others, were guaranteed. 
Theres nothing to suggest Mrs W couldnt afford the PPI. And it was flexible in that 
Mrs W could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided it was 
no longer right for her.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs Ws lost out because of how Barclays 
sold her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman