DRN-2288736
The complaint
Mr I has complained about Covea Insurance plcs decision to reject a claim he made for 
storm damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Following a storm in February 2020, Mr I reported damage to his home from water coming 
through the roof of a bay window. His insurer, Covea instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to 
inspect the damage. The LA said the damage was caused by wear and tear and the storm 
had highlighted existing damage to the bay window. So Covea declined Mr Is claim as the 
policy excludes cover for damage caused by gradual deterioration. 
Mr I didnt agree. So he asked us to look at his complaint.
In September 2020 the investigator issued her view. She thought Covea had acted 
reasonably when it declined Mr Is claim for storm damage. 
Mr I didnt agree and said he still believes the damage was caused by a storm. Our 
investigator asked Mr I to send her any independent evidence to support his complaint. 
In November 2020 Mr I asked for more time, which the investigator agreed. In January 2021 
Mr I said due to the pandemic he hadnt been able to arrange an inspection of his roof and 
obtain an independent report. 
In March 2021 our investigator explained that she couldnt hold the case open indefinitely 
and that contractors havent been prevented from working during the pandemic. 
As Mr I hasnt provided any new information since the investigators view in September 
2020, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we ask three questions when considering storm damage 
claims to help decide whether an insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
I think that storm conditions occurred when the damage was reported by Mr I. And I think the 
damage being claimed for is consistent with damage that a storm typically causes. However, 
the LA reported to Covea that photos (provided) of the damage show there was missing 
mortar to the roof of the bay window and evidence of previous temporary repairs.
Mr Is policy with Covea has a standard term Ive seen in most  if not all home insurance 
policies. It says it excludes cover for loss or damage arising from gradually operating 
causes including deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
So while I think storm conditions occurred and the damage was consistent with what a storm 
might typically cause, I dont think the storm was the main cause of the damage, having 
considered the information provided by the LA. I think the storm highlighted an existing wear 
and tear issue. 
As Covea didnt receive any evidence of a similar weight - such as a roofer report - to 
contradict the LAs findings, I dont think Covea acted unreasonably in relying on their 
opinion when considering Mr Is claim.
I understand Mr I is disappointed with Coveas decision. But I think it considered his claim 
and reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. So this means Im not asking 
it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman