DRN-3817988
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) will not refund transactions he says he made 
as a result of falling victim to a scam.
Mr C is represented by CEL Solicitors in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr C says he has fallen victim to an investment scam resulting in him losing 
approximately £41,000.  Mr C made all these payments using his Monzo debit card during 
the period between October 2020 to June 2021.  Mr C says he made these payments to a 
company I will refer to as P; the funds were then moved onto to his trading account.  Mr C 
argues that his money actually went to the alleged scammers, which I will refer to as L.
Mr C raised this matter with Monzo asking it to reimburse him the money he says he lost.  As 
Monzo did not do this, Mr C raised a complaint which he referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr C did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
In Mr Cs submissions, amongst other things, he has made some reference to Monzo not 
raising a chargeback in this matter, which our investigator addressed in his findings.
From what I have seen, on the face of it, it appears that P is a company involved in, broadly, 
selling and storing gold  as well as allowing their customers to convert their gold into money 
and have it credited to their wallet to store or spend.  In Mr Cs case, it appears as if P 
carried out the service mentioned for him  whereby he transferred his funds to his trading 
account.  Because of this, if Monzo had raised a chargeback claim  I am persuaded it 
would have likely been unsuccessful.  I say this because the alleged scammer (in this case, 
L) were not a party to the card payments, so Mr C had no valid claim against the legitimate 
merchant (P) he paid; this company provided the service as intended.  The subsequent 
conversion/transfer of the funds would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim.  Further, I 
have not been provided with any satisfactory evidence which suggests P did not carry out 
the service concerned.
I do not find the payments Mr C made as being particularly remarkable.  That is to say, I am 
not persuaded that there were features of the payments which should have alerted Monzo to 
delay them and ask Mr C questions to get to the bottom of what was going on.
I acknowledge that the payments were international and made to several new payees.  
However, these factors alone, to my mind, are not sufficient cause for concern.  
Mr C argues the payments were for significant amounts and made in quick succession.  
Having considered this, I do not agree that any of the individual payments were so significant 
 even when taken together  that Monzo ought to have intervened by pausing the 
payments pending further enquires.  The highest individual transactions concerned 
amounted to approximately £2,300.
Whilst there are instances of several payments made on the same day, I still do not take the 
view they ought to have triggered Monzos systems.  I say this because based on the pattern 
and frequency of Mr Cs payments, the gaps in between them and crucially, the location of 
the beneficiary account: I am persuaded that the various payees had become established 
regular payees.  Therefore, I would not have expected the payments to them to have 
flagged.
So, taking all the above factors together  I am not persuaded that Monzo has done anything 
wrong in the circumstances of this complaint, so I will not be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman