DRN-4505016
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about mortgage advice they received from Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage would come to the end of a five year fixed rate in October 2022, 
so in April they spoke to Countrywide to discuss re-mortgaging.
In May 2022 Countywide sent Mr and Mrs M an illustration of a new mortgage with a new 
lender, and they confirmed they wanted to go ahead. They paid Countrywide over £700, 
which included the fee for its lifetime mortgage advice service and a fee for drafting a will.
Mr and Mrs M were then contacted by a separate company requesting an additional £200 for 
will-writing services. Mr and Mrs M said they understood they had paid the fee and would not 
have to pay any more.
The mortgage application proceeded, a valuation was carried out and solicitors instructed. 
The solicitors asked Mr and Mrs M for further information about their property title, which 
they provided. Mr and Mrs M say they then heard nothing further for three months, at which 
point they received a notification from the solicitors that their case had been closed.
Mr and Mrs M contacted the solicitors, who advised them to contact the lender. The lender 
told them that it had closed their application because Countrywide had not responded to its 
queries. Mr and Mrs M therefore spoke to their Countrywide adviser, and they say he told 
them not to worry and that everything was in hand.
Two weeks later Mr and Mrs M contacted Countrywide and asked for an update. They say 
the adviser told them he would email them the next day. They didnt receive an email, and 
after a further two weeks they spoke to the adviser again who told them the mortgage 
application had fallen through.
By now it was late September 2022, so Mr and Mrs M had to take a rate with their existing 
lender. They were able to secure a five year fixed rate of 3.36% over five years  this 
compares to a mortgage of 2.29% theyd applied for in May. As a result, Mr and Mrs M 
complain they will have to pay higher interest for the next five years, and that because of the 
higher interest rate they were no longer able to borrow an additional £5,000 theyd budgeted 
for to spend on home improvements, and which by then they were committed to. They also 
had to abandon plans to reduce their mortgage term by two years to make it affordable at 
the higher rate, which could mean they might have to postpone their retirements in the 
future.
Mr and Mrs Ms existing fixed rate was due to expire on 1 October 2022, and on 
30 September 2022 they noticed in their online banking that there was a pending payment 
due the next day for a higher amount than they were expecting. 
They contacted Countrywide only to find out that it hadnt submitted the application to their 
existing lender either, so instead of moving from one fixed rate to another they were moving 
on to the lenders standard variable rate (SVR). This meant that Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
payment for October was more than £200 more than they were expecting or had budgeted 
for. Their new fixed rate was finally implemented that month.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Countrywide. When it didnt respond within eight weeks, they 
brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They complain that they have 
paid for a service they didnt receive. They paid extra for a lifetime service but after this 
experience have no intention of using Countrywide again in the future. They also paid for a 
will writing service they didnt receive, because it wasnt made clear to them there would be 
further fees charged by the will-writing company. And theyve ended up staying with their 
existing lender at a higher interest rate and over a longer term than they could have 
achieved, and losing out on borrowing the additional money they needed for home 
improvements. They say they found the whole experience very stressful and worrying, and it 
involved them in a lot of work chasing up Countrywide to find out what was happening.
Countrywide said that the new lenders valuation had found Mr and Mrs Ms property to be 
worth less than they had thought, increasing the loan to value. This meant that the interest 
rate Mr and Mrs M had selected wasnt available to them. Countrywide said it tried to appeal 
the valuation, but accepted it hadnt communicated this to Mr and Mrs M. It said the rate 
theyd ended up taking with their existing lender was lower than the rate they would have 
been able to get from the new lender following the reduced valuation. Countrywide offered 
£300 compensation for the poor communication, and a partial refund of a further £300 of the 
advice fee theyd paid. It also offered to refund the deposit theyd paid for the will writing 
service.
Our investigator said that was fair, but that Countrywide should also refund the difference 
between the interest rate Mr and Mrs M could have taken with the new lender and the rate 
they ended up taking with their existing lender. Countrywide didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
I largely agreed with the investigator as to the overall outcome, but I thought there was more 
Countrywide needed to do to put things right. I issued a provisional decision to allow the 
parties a chance to comment on my thinking before I make a final decision.
My provisional decision
I said:
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Countrywide provided Mr and Mrs M 
with very poor service. It didnt keep them up to date with their mortgage application 
or respond to their queries. It didnt tell them their property had been valued at less 
than theyd thought, or that this might affect the amount they could borrow. It didnt 
even submit the rate switch with their existing lender in time for it to take effect on the 
expiry of the old rate.
Countrywide says that when the new lenders valuation said Mr and Mrs Ms property 
was worth less than theyd thought, this meant they would either have to borrow less 
to maintain the loan to value, or take a higher interest rate to reflect the higher loan to 
value.
It should have explained this to Mr and Mrs M as soon as it happened, and found out 
which of those options they wanted to take  or whether they wanted to do something 
else, such as appeal the valuation or look for another lender. But Countrywide didnt 
do any of those things.It says the adviser appealed the valuation on their behalf but Ive not seen any 
evidence that it actually did so. Countrywides own notes show that its adviser didnt 
contact the lender or record the outcome of the valuation until 29 July 2022, when the 
lender chased it for a response to the outcome of the valuation, despite the valuation 
happening in May. Countrywides notes show that even after the lender chased it on 
29 July it took no further action, and eventually the lender cancelled the application in 
September. 
So I dont accept that Countrywide was trying to resolve matters behind the scenes, 
and merely failed to keep Mr and Mrs M updated. Theres no evidence of that. The 
evidence shows that it simply failed to take any action at all  with the result that 
Mr and Mrs Ms application lapsed and they lost out on the chance to move their 
mortgage to the new lender.
Countrywide says it wouldnt be fair to compensate Mr and Mrs M for ending up with 
a mortgage at a higher rate than they could have had with the new lender, because 
the mortgage they wanted wasnt available to them.
We asked Mr and Mrs M what they would have done had Countrywide told them the 
outcome of the valuation and discussed next steps with them. They say that its likely 
they would have agreed to go ahead with the reduced loan amount. The lender had 
only reduced the amount available to them by around £3,000 so while this would 
have impacted on their planned home improvements, it was also important to them to 
get their new mortgage secured as they were concerned about the prospect of rising 
interest rates.
I see no reason to disbelieve what Mr and Mrs M say. Im satisfied that if 
Countrywide had told them what had happened, they would have agreed to go ahead 
with the new lender at the 2.29% interest rate based on the slightly lower loan 
balance. So even though the specific mortgage they originally wanted wasnt 
available to them, something very like it  and which they would have agreed to  
was.
Countrywide also says that as the lender never issued an offer, there was no 
guarantee Mr and Mrs M would have been able to move to this lender anyway. Thats 
true  but a large part of the reason the lender never issued an offer was because 
Countrywides failings frustrated their application. Countrywide clearly considered it 
was likely the lender would have accepted their income and financial circumstances, 
or it wouldnt have recommended the mortgage in the first place. Subject to the lower 
valuation, it seems their property had been found to be acceptable security. Theres 
nothing in the mortgage application that raises significant concerns. On balance, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M would have been able to secure this 
mortgage  at the lower balance  had they been given that opportunity. Im satisfied 
the reason they didnt was because Countrywide failed to progress their application.
And even if that wasnt the case, if Countrywide had told Mr and Mrs M what was 
happening in May or June, rather than waiting until September, its likely Mr and 
Mrs M would have been able to secure a better rate with their existing lender at that 
time than the one they were offered in September. I dont know exactly what their 
existing lender had available at that time, but its likely to have been broadly 
comparable to the rate they applied for with the new lender and less than they ended 
up with.
In the end Countrywide made an application for a rate switch to Mr and Mrs Ms 
existing lender. But it failed here too  the application wasnt submitted in time for it to follow straight on to the expiry of Mr and Mrs Ms previous fixed rate. So they had to 
pay the lenders SVR in October 2022.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M didnt receive the service theyd paid for and were 
entitled to expect. Countrywide offered to refund half its fee, on the basis that theyd 
paid for a lifetime advice service and could still use Countrywide in the future.
But Mr and Mrs M say that after this experience they have no intention of using 
Countrywide again. This doesnt strike me as unreasonable. I dont think its fair for 
Countrywide to retain part of the lifetime fee when its service was such that Mr and 
Mrs M not only didnt receive what they paid for in 2022, but will also not receive it in 
the future. It should refund all the fees they paid  including the will writing deposit. 
Countrywide hasnt provided any evidence to show it made clear to Mr and Mrs M 
that this was only a deposit and that they would have to pay other fees to the will 
writing service. Once they understood this, they didnt actually use the service and so 
have received no benefit from the fee they did pay.
I also think Countrywide should compensate Mr and Mrs M for the difference 
between the mortgage they ought to have been able to take, with the new lender, 
and the rate they ended up on with their existing lender. Im satisfied that its because 
of Countrywides failings that Mr and Mrs M will need to pay additional interest for five 
years from October 2022.
The two mortgages arent quite like for like, since Mr and Mrs M were also intending 
to reduce the mortgage term by two years as part of the re-mortgage  this didnt 
happen when they stayed with their existing lender. And the two balances arent quite 
the same. I cant put Mr and Mrs M back in the position they would have been in but 
for Countrywides failings, since I cant recreate the mortgage they would have taken 
with the new lender.
Their loss is the additional interest they will have to pay for each month of the five 
years of the fixed rate. Calculating the difference between the two interest rates on 
their existing mortgage  rather than comparing the monthly payments between the 
two mortgages  ensures Mr and Mrs M are compensated for the longer term as well 
as the higher interest rate. That calculation should include the payment at the higher 
SVR in October 2022. Both mortgages had a £999 product fee so there is no loss 
there.
Finally, Countrywide offered Mr and Mrs M £300 compensation. Having considered 
everything, I dont think thats enough. Taking into account the upset and worry 
caused over several months, as well as the ongoing higher payments Mr and Mrs M 
have had to make since, I think £500 is fair compensation in all the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional decision, and Countrywide didnt reply. As there are 
no new arguments or evidence, I see no reason to change my mind. For the same reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision, reproduced above, I uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Countrywide Principal Services 
Limited to:
Refund all fees Mr and Mrs M paid to Countrywide in respect of its services, including 
the will writing fee. It should add simple annual interest of 8%* running from the dates 
Mr and Mrs M paid the fees to the date of refund.
Calculate the difference between the monthly payments Mr and Mrs M are required 
to make on their existing mortgage (with its current balance and term) from 1 October 
2022 to the end of the fixed rate they ended up taking  that is, the difference 
between:
othe monthly payments Mr and Mrs M are currently required to pay, being the 
SVR in October 2022 followed by the fixed interest rate of 3.36%; and 
othe monthly payments as they would be if the interest rate was fixed at 2.29% 
from 1 October 2022.
Pay the total amount of the difference in monthly payments over the five year term to 
Mr and Mrs M as a lump sum. I do not include 8% simple interest on the past 
payments as the loss in being out of pocket for past payments is offset by the benefit 
of being compensated for future losses in advance.
Increase its offer of compensation from £300 to £500.
* Countrywide may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, as required by 
HMRC, but it should tell Mr and Mrs M what it has deducted so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
they are entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman