DRN-1545526
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in January 2009. Mr 
H applied for the policy in a meeting. The policy covered him against accidents, sickness 
and unemployment.
Mr H says he would have had more in savings that would have been covered by having the 
policy. So he thinks it was unsuitable for him. He also says looking back he had no need for 
it. He says he was young at the time and took their word for it. He thinks it mis-sold the 
policy to him.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Here are my reasons:
This has been a difficult complaint for me to consider as I havent been able to see all 
of the original sales documentation that would have been used at the time of sale. I 
have had to rely on what I know of sales that happened at that time, look at the 
information provided to me by Santander and also read Mr Hs recollections and 
consider from this what most likely happened. 
 
Its completely understandable that Mr Hs recollections are not detailed in anyway as 
the sale took place a long time ago. So I've also looked at the sales documentation 
that have been given to the service, to help me understand a bit more, how the policy 
was sold. Ive been able to see some documentation, a welcome letter and record of 
the meeting, that demonstrated a discussion was most likely had between Mr H and 
Santander about obtaining MPPI. And because of this, I dont think the evidence is 
strong enough for me safely to say Santander added the MPPI policy without Mr Hs 
consent. So I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint on this point. I do not know of any 
problems with Santanders MPPI sales during this time and I havent seen enough 
evidence to conclude that anything different happened in this sale.
 Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr H or not 
during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure the 
policy was suitable for him. But on looking at the limited information provided, I 
cannot be sure if it did or not. But even if Santander did provide advice to Mr H, I 
dont think the policy was unsuitable for him anyway.
 
I have drawn this conclusion after considering Mr Hs circumstances at the time of 
sale. Because, although Mr H says he had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay 
and £10,000 savings he could have used, the MPPI policy would have paid out if he 
was sick or made unemployed in addition to this. Having the policy in place would 
mean Mr H could use any sick pay and provisions he may have had to cover other 
expenses. I dont think his means are sufficient for me reasonably to say that he 
wouldnt have had at least some use for the policy. 
 
Mr H was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such for someone that had a pre-existing medical condition. It is unlikely Mr 
H needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations 
and if he had received clear information on these terms I dont think it would have put 
him off.
 
Finally, I cant be sure if Santander disclosed the costs of the policy in a clear way 
but even if it did, I dont think Mr H would have done anything differently for the same 
reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
 
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale, but based on what I have seen and what I know of Santander sales during 
the time of sale, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
my decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman