DRN-3379073
The complaint
Mrs F complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Premier Benefit 
Solutions Limited trading as Premier Wealth Planning (PWP). Shes unhappy with their 
advice regarding the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) as she thinks it carried a higher 
level of risk than was appropriate for her circumstances at the time.
What happened
Mrs F and her husband received investment advice from PWP in January 2016. A financial 
review from the time noted that she had a reasonable knowledge of investments and a 
moderate attitude to risk (ATR). She was aged 49, in good health and married with two 
financially dependent children. She had an annual income of £50,000 and joint monthly 
expenditure of around £5,000. 
She jointly owned two properties with her husband worth a combined £2m with an 
outstanding mortgage of £200,000. She had a SIPP worth around £100,000 and was noted 
as having a more hands on approach with her pension and she was interested in balanced 
risk options.
PWP recommended that she keep her existing holdings and look to increase them 
incrementally with the cash she held within her SIPP at the time. At the time around £17,000 
or 17% of her holdings were held in the WEIF, shed made an initial investment of around 
£10,000 in April 2015 and then invested a further £6,900 in the latter part of 2015. 
Mrs F along with her husband complained to PWP in December 2019 about the suitability of 
the investments in the WEIF. PWP didnt uphold the complaint so she brought the complaint 
to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld and said, in summary:
From what hed seen, only 17 % of Mrs Fs portfolio was invested in the WEIF. He 
didnt think its inclusion made the portfolio too risky as it was relatively balanced 
between low risk and higher risk assets. 
At the time the advice was given, Mrs F had shown an interest in UK Equity income 
funds. At the time the WEIF aimed to: Provide a reasonable level of income together 
with capital growth. He also noted that in 2016 it had provided a historic income yield 
of 3.4% and around 50% of the fund holdings were invested in companies worth over 
£5bn. He thought this demonstrated that the WEIF was compatible with the fund 
characteristics Mrs F was looking for and therefore wasnt an unsuitable choice.
He thought the WEIFs key investor information document (KIID) set out its 
investment policy and made it clear the fund had the potential to invest in a range of 
investments, including unquoted illiquid stocks, to achieve its aim.
He hadnt seen evidence of an explicit statement made by PWP at the time that the 
WEIF included investments in unquoted, potentially illiquid stocks. But he was 
persuaded the potential for exposure to unquoted illiquid investments and the risks 
associated with this, were brought to Mrs F and her husbands attention. 
The investigator hadnt seen that any questions were raised about the funds 
underlying holdings at the time despite the information provided. 
He noted that the overall holdings in small companies (those worth less than £250m) 
within the WEIF was very low at the time  less than 7%. And the WEIF was also 
considered at the time to be a high-quality UK Equity Income fund. Therefore, he 
wasnt persuaded PWP made an error or that a different course of action would have 
been taken if theyd done more to highlight the WEIFs holding in smaller companies.
Mrs F didnt agree with his findings and said, in summary: 
The investigator had said that the riskiness of the WEIF had been diluted by the other 
holdings, but it was a very risky, adventurous fund and had no place in a portfolio for 
a balanced investor. 
There were doubts expressed in media coverage at the time about the WEIF but 
PWP didn't look into it enough and just followed general sentiment and the funds 
track record.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Fs husbands investments has been the subject of a separate complaint so I will focus 
my findings on Mrs Fs investments. From what Ive seen her stated objectives were:
To implement and maintain proactive investment strategies for both **** and ***** 
pension provisions. Looking for bespoke strategies utilising a range of solutions/asset 
classes, to maximise growth prospects. 
Looking to use investment ISA allowances for 2010/11, for growth potential over 5 
years
Ive seen a valuation from early January 2016 which shows that Mrs Fs portfolio consisted 
of 13 different funds and a cash holding. It was made up of around 11% cash, 39% UK 
equities, 28% Global equities and 22% Multi-Asset. The WEIF was her second largest 
holding and made up 17% of her portfolio. She was also noted as having recently paid a 
further £15,000 in cash into the portfolio which doesnt appear to have been reflected in the 
valuation Ive seen so I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that the percentage of cash 
within the portfolio was higher than 11%.
Ive considered the advice for Mrs F to keep her portfolio as it was. From what Ive seen, she 
was satisfied with the performance, cost and makeup of her portfolio in 2016. It was noted at 
the time that she didnt want to change the asset allocation within her SIPP and wanted to 
wait 12 months before rebalancing it. It was also noted that she didnt want to move to the 
strategy recommended for her husband as her existing strategy had considerably 
outperformed her husbands pension and at a lower cost.
I appreciate the point Mrs F has made that the WEIF was too risky for her portfolio. The objective stated in its 2016 fund factsheet was: To provide a reasonable level of income 
together with capital growth. This will be achieved by investing primarily in UK listed 
companies. From what Ive seen of Mrs Fs objectives, I dont think this was inconsistent 
with what she wanted. However, I note that it had a risk rating of 5 out 7, which in isolation 
was riskier than her ATR. 
Ive looked at the makeup of Mrs Fs portfolio. I dont think its unreasonable for a portfolio to 
include products that are lower or higher risk than an investors stated ATR  provided the 
overall balance of the portfolio is suitable. Based on what Ive seen, I think that Mrs Fs 
portfolio was suitably diversified between different asset classes. I also think that PWP 
provided her and her husband with enough information about the WEIF to enable her to 
make an informed decision about whether or not to keep it in her SIPP.
I think its important to keep in mind that Mrs F didnt want to make any changes to her SIPP 
at the time. In January 2016, the WEIF was one of only two investments which had made 
any gains over the previous six months. And at the time, the WEIF had a good track record 
and was managed by a fund manager who had a long history of investment success. 
A valuation from 2019 shows that the WEIF only made up 4.5% of Mrs Fs SIPP. The value 
of the SIPP had grown to around £287,000 but most of the new funds had been left as cash 
or invested in funds that carried a risk level of balanced or greater. The asset split was now 
29% Cash, 10% UK Equities, 29% Overseas Equities and 32% Multi Asset. Two funds were 
purchased which were rated as having a higher risk level than the WEIF. Taking everything 
into account, I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that Mrs F wasnt averse to investing 
in products that carried a higher than medium level of risk.
So, having considered everything, I dont think I can fairly say that PWP have done anything 
wrong or acted unprofessionally in advising her to keep her portfolio as it was.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman