DRN-2963336
The complaint
Mr B complains about an entry on his Transunion International UK Limited credit file that he
says belongs to someone else.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
In February 2021 Mr B contacted Transunion to dispute an entry he found on his credit file.
Mr B has explained that, at the time, he was trying to complete a mortgage application and
an entry on his credit file had been highlighted by the lender as a cause for concern.
Mr B has explained that an entry for a mail order account opened in November 2020 wasnt
genuine. Mr B has pointed out the debt was recorded at an address he hasnt lived at for
around twelve years and that the date of birth used was wrong.
Transunion contacted the business reporting the disputed account and received a response
around two weeks later. The response requested contact be made with the other business
fraud team. Transunion didnt follow up with the other business or provide the details of its
response to Mr B at this time.
At the beginning of March 2021 Mr B sent Transunion a letter that set out the impact of the
disputed entry showing on his credit file. Mr B explained he was unable to qualify for a
mortgage which meant he and his wife had to sell a property that his elderly mother in law
was living in. Transunion responded to Mr Ms complaint at the end of March 2021 and said
the business reporting the disputed account had asked for contact to discuss the problem
further. Details of how to contact the other business were provided.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld
Mr Bs complaint and pointed out Transunion had received a response from the reporting
business in the middle of February 2021 but hadnt told Mr B how to proceed until it
responded to his complaint at the end of March 2021. The investigator asked Transunion to
pay Mr B £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
Both Mr B and Transunion asked to appeal. Transunion said it had raised a dispute on Mr
Bs behalf in line with the rules. Mr B said he had done his best to deal with the situation via
Transunion but that problem remained unresolved. Mr B provided a detailed picture of how
the entry in question had impacted him and his family. As both parties asked to appeal, the
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has explained this entry isnt his and has been recorded with the wrong date of birth
and at an old address. I can see Mr B has sent us information that shows his mortgage
application was impacted by the information reported. Mr B has also given us a detailed
explanation setting out how the situation has affected him and his family. I can see Mr B has
raised serious concerns and has told us that the information being reported has far reaching
effects. I need to explain that there are two businesses involved in this case. The reporting
business in relation to the entry in question and Transunion. In this decision I can only look
at Transunions actions and whether it has dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly.
I appreciate Mr B originally disputed the entry back at the beginning of February 2021. Over
a period of two weeks, Mr B sent Transunion information to verify his identity so it could raise
the dispute. The process, at this point, was reasonably quick and Transunion appears to 
have been responsive.
On 17 February 2021 the reporting business sent a response to Transunion requesting
contact be made with its fraud department for further investigations to be completed. Our
investigator says Transunion took too long to give Mr B that information and I agree. The first
time Transunion appears to have provided contact information for the reporting business and
asked Mr B to get in touch was when it responded to his complaint at the end of March 2021.
But Transunion received the reporting business response around six weeks earlier. I can
see no reason why the reporting business response wasnt immediately forwarded to Mr B.
At the beginning of March 2021, Mr B sent Transunion a detailed letter explaining the
problems he was experiencing obtaining a mortgage. Given Transunion had already
received the reporting business response two weeks earlier, Id have expected it to forward
that to Mr B without delay, and certainly once it received his letter. I agree with Mr B and the
investigator that Transunion failed to forward instructions in a reasonable time.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Bs complaint. Ultimately, Transunion cant delete
the entry without the permission of the reporting business. And the reporting business will
need to investigate and decide how to proceed. But I do agree that the process of forwarding
the reporting business instructions took much longer than it shouldve done and I accept that
impacted Mr Bs plans and the timeline for resolving the issues raised.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint and recommended Transunion pay £150 for the
trouble and upset caused by the delay. I note everything Mr B has told us about how the
disputed entry affected his ability to obtain a mortgage. As Ive said above, the reporting
business is responsible for the information contained in the entry itself. I agree with Mr B that
the settlement should be increased and doesnt fairly recognise the impact of the situation on
him. I intend to increase the award to £400, a figure that in my view more fairly reflects the
impact of Transunions delays on Mr B.  
In my provisional decision I asked the parties involved to respond with any additional points 
or information they want me to consider. Mr B responded and said Transunion had sat on 
important information for around six weeks and that he doesnt feel £400 is a fair way to 
resolve the complaint. Mr B also said that, to date, he hasnt received an apology from 
Transunion. Mr B says that to resolve the complaint he wants confirmation the issues raised 
are fraudulent that he can show to another business. We didnt hear back from Transunion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr B for his response and the points raised. As I said in my provisional 
decision, Mr B will need to address the disputed entry with the reporting business for it to be 
removed. Whilst I dont doubt what hes told us, Tranunion cant delete the entry without the permission of the reporting business. 
As Im only able to look at Transunions actions, I cant say whether the disputed account 
being reported is fraudulent or not.  
Mr B has asked for an apology from Transunion. I take Mr Bs point and Ive taken the 
service and delay experienced into account when deciding how to resolve his complaint. I 
agree Transunion failed to update Mr B after it received a response from the reporting 
business and that there was an unreasonable delay. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
In my provisional decision I said I intended to increase the award to £400, a figure I think 
more fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr B and the trouble and upset 
caused. Ive considered Mr Bs response. I still think Transunion should pay Mr B £400 to 
fairly resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Transunion International UK Limited to 
pay Mr B £400.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman