DRN-4192832
The complaint
Miss H and Mr H complain that Society of Lloyd's declined their travel insurance policy claim. 
My references to Society of Lloyds include its agents.
What happened
Miss H and Mr H were insured by an annual multi-trip group travel policy insurance policy. 
The policy covered from 1 September 2021 to 31 August 2022. Society of Lloyd's was the 
insurer.
In May 2022 Miss H and Mr H were on a flight from the UK to travel abroad. They say the 
flight was delayed over 18 hours as while in the air their plane was diverted to a different 
country due to industrial action taken by air traffic control in the intended destination country. 
Miss H and Mr H had to stay in the other country overnight and the next day they continued 
their journey to their intended destination on the same plane with the same flight number. 
They got to the intended destination 18 hours later than planned.
Miss H and Mr H claimed on the policy under the Travel Delay Inconvenience Benefit cover.
Society of Lloyds declined the claim. It said the policy only covered delays in the departure 
of the flight and Miss H and Mr Hs flight had departed the UK only 17 minutes late. Miss H 
and Mr H had been delayed in their arrival to the destination country due to a delay on route, 
which wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Miss H and Mr H complained to us. In summary they said Society of Lloyds unfairly declined 
the claim as:
The name of the cover option was Travel Delay Inconvenience Benefit and a 
reasonable consumer would expect their 18 hour delay to be covered under the 
option. Otherwise the option was misnamed.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) for the policy hadnt made clear 
that cover for delay only related to delay at departure.
Miss H and Mr H want Society of Lloyds to pay their claim and compensation for the time 
theyd spent in making the complaint. And as Society of Lloyds thought the policy only 
covered delay in departure they wanted it to make the name of the benefit clearer in the 
policy.
Our investigator said Society of Lloyds unfairly declined the claim and recommended it pay 
the claim plus interest.
Society of Lloyds disagreed and wanted an ombudmans decision. It referred to an 
ombudsmans decision which it said supported that it shouldnt have to pay the claim.
Miss H and Mr H accepted our investigators recommendation to pay the claim. But they said 
if Society of Lloyds wanted an ombudmans decision they wanted me to consider their 
request for compensation for their initial and further inconvenience in making the complaint. 
They referred to ombudsmen decisions which they said supported that Society of Lloyds 
should pay the claim.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I intended to not uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Both parties have referred to ombudsmen decisions which they think support their point of 
view, but we consider each complaint on its own individual circumstances and our approach 
as to whats fair and reasonable can evolve over time.
Im intending to not uphold this complaint, Ill explain why.
The policy says under the heading Travel Delay Inconvenience Benefit:
In the event that the Insured Person is delayed because of the late departure of an 
aircraft in which he had previously booked to travel occurring as the result of any of 
the following contingencies:
Strike, industrial actionprovided always that such contingency had not occurred, 
commenced or been announced before the booking was made in respect of the 
flight, voyage or journey thus affected then to pay as follows:
(i) Outward journey at commencement of the Period of Travel
£50 for the first completed 8 hour period that transport departure is delayed and £50 
for each subsequent completed hour, up to a maximum of £250 in all.
(ii) All subsequent journeys during the Period of Travel
Payment as in Subsection 2(b)(i), up to a maximum of £150 in all.
Under the policy terms the Travel Delay Inconvenience Benefit is payable only if the flight is 
delayed at departure for 8 hours or more. Miss H and Mr Hs flight left the UK only 
17 minutes late. They arrived 18 hours late at their intended destination because their plane 
was diverted during the flight, not because of flight delay at departure. So Miss H and Mr Hs 
claim for benefit isnt covered under the policy terms.
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Miss H and Mr H 
were inconvenienced by their flight being diverted on route and arriving late at their holiday 
destination. But I dont think thats enough for me to say its fair and reasonable for Society 
of Lloyds to pay the claim for benefit irrespective of the policy terms.
Miss H and Mr H say the IPID doesnt highlight that the benefit was only available for delay 
at departure, but I dont think the IPID needed to do so as I dont think its an unusual policy 
term. The IPID Ive seen doesnt mention the travel delay benefit so there was no 
inconsistency between the IPID and the policy terms that might have mis-led Miss H and 
Mr H about the benefit.
Miss H and Mr H say the name of benefit, Travel Delay Inconvenience Benefit, doesnt 
show the benefit is only for delayed departure and Society of Lloyds should change the 
name of the benefit. I dont have the statutory power to require a business to amend its 
policy wording. But anyway the important issue is whether the policy wording is clear the 
benefit was for delayed departure only and I think it is clear.
As Miss H and Mr Hs claim for travel delay benefit isnt covered by the policy terms, and 
I dont think theres any basis for me to say its fair and reasonable for the claim to be 
covered, I think Society of Lloyds reasonably declined the claim.
Theres no basis for me to award any compensation for Miss H and Mr Hs inconvenience in 
making this complaint. Society of Lloyds decision to decline the claim was reasonable.I note the policy does cover certain specified costs for a change of itinerary, subject to the 
policy terms and conditions. Miss H and Mr H might want to make a claim for any relevant 
expenses their change of itinerary led to for Society of Lloyds to assess in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. If such a claim is made and the parties cant reach agreement 
on that claim Miss H and Mr H can make a separate complaint to Society of Lloyds on that 
matter and ultimately a separate complaint to us.
Responses to my provisional decision
Society of Lloyds said it didnt have anything to add. Miss H and Mr H didnt agree with my 
provisional decision. They said some important facts had been omitted and some of the 
claim specifics misstated, in summary these included:
Society of Lloyds had said that the policy only covered delays in the departure of the 
flight and Miss H and Mr Hs flight had departed the UK only 17 minutes late. But the 
policy terms didnt state that the departure had to be from the UK or the starting 
airport of a journey so they thought it unfair for Society of Lloyds to include the words 
the UK as a reason for declining the claim.
Theres no requirement in the policy wording that the departure airport must be the 
same as the scheduled airport or in the UK. The flight to their scheduled destination 
departed over 12 hours late. They sent an email from the holiday provider which they 
said showed their departure was delayed by 26 hours and 14 minutes and they 
queried whether I thought the information the holiday provider had given was wrong.
They didnt think Id given enough attention to the examples of previous decisions 
where a complaint had been upheld in situations which they thought were similar to 
their situation. They noted that we consider each complaint on its own specific 
circumstances but they thought decisions should either be consistent or it explained 
why their complaint wasnt upheld. 
If Society of Lloyds wanted to exclude a claim in their circumstances the previous 
cases they referred to said the policy had to make that clear and their policy didnt. If 
they had known there was a gap in cover they would have considered buying an 
alternative policy.
As I and the investigator had reached different conclusions the policy was unclear.
Theyd been financially disadvantaged by the title of the Travel Delay Inconvenience 
Benefit which was misleading given the reasons for the claim rejection. Id 
acknowledged that they were delayed by over 12 hours and inconvenienced. They 
thought most people would expect their situation to be covered by a benefit with that 
title.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Miss H and Mr H have made but I wont address all their points 
or answer all the questions theyve asked in my findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive 
made my decision and the key points which I think are relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint.Miss H and Mr Hs response to my provisional decision hasnt changed my mind. I still think 
Society of Lloyds fairly and reasonably declined the claim. 
The policy provides cover In the event that the Insured Person is delayed because of the 
late departure of an aircraft for the periods and for the reasons the policy wording lists, as 
Ive detailed above.
Miss H and Mr Hs scheduled and actual flight departure was from the UK. Miss H and Mr H 
havent disputed Society of Lloyds evidence that the flight departed from the UK about 
17 minutes late. So Im satisfied that Miss H and Mr Hs flight departed from the scheduled 
airport for departure in the UK more or less on time. No stops on route were scheduled, the 
flight should have been a direct flight to Miss H and Mr Hs intended destination.
The delay times that Miss H and Mr H have given are due to the flight being re-routed to 
another country where they stayed overnight and continued their journey the next day.
The email from the holiday provider says:
Departure Airport  London Gatwick (LGW)
Arrival Airport  (airport at intended destination )
Firstly, we would like to apologise for the delay to your flight
If you are covered by your holiday insurance and would like to pursue a claim, the 
following information will help you.
Scheduled Time of Departure 09:50 GMT 12th May 2022
Scheduled Time of Arrival 19:35 GMT 12th May 2022
Actual Time of Departure 12:04 GMT 13th May 2022
Actual Time of Arrival 13:53 GMT 13th May 2022
Reason for Delay
Due to Air space closure over (intended destination )your flight was unable to land, 
the flight was diverted to (airport in the other country).
Your flight operated at the earliest opportunity the following day.
Total Length of Delay on arrival 18 hours 18 minutes.
You will have noticed the times given above are in Greenwich Mean Time. Dont 
worry if these dont match the local times - we display times like this for insurance 
purposes.
The holiday provider didnt say the departure was delayed by 26 hours and 14 minutes, as 
Miss H and Mr H suggest. It says that the Total Length of Delay on arrival was 18 hours 
18 minutes. 
While the holiday provider says that the Actual Time of Departure was over 24 hours later 
than the Scheduled Time of Departure thats not correct as the email also says that the 
Departure Airport was London Gatwick and Miss H and Mr H didnt depart from that airport 
over 24 hours later than the Scheduled Time of Departure. Miss H and Mr H resumed their 
journey after the unscheduled stopover in the other country over 24 hours after they 
departed from the Departure Airport in the UK on time.
I think Society of Lloyds fairly and reasonably considered that the scheduled and actual 
departing airport was in the UK, as referred to by the holiday provider. The delay didnt 
happen because of that flights late departure.Infact the delay didnt happen because of the flights late departure from any airport. The 
delay happened because the flight had to be re-routed during the flight which resulted in 
delays. The policy terms and conditions dont cover that situation. 
I dont think the policy needs to specifically say that the circumstances of Miss H and Mr Hs 
claim are excluded. Their unfortunate circumstances are comparatively unusual. And 
anyway the policy is wording is clear that cover is for delay due to the late departure of an 
aircraft, and thats not why Miss H and Mr H were delayed.
Miss H and Mr H have commented about the previous ombudsmen decisions they think 
support their complaint. But its important to note that we decide cases on their individual 
circumstances and small changes to circumstances, and the specific wording of the policy 
terms, can result in a different outcome. Also our decisions dont generally set precedents 
and as Ive said our approach to whats fair and reasonable can evolve over time.
Im not persuaded that Miss H and Mr H would have bought a different policy from this group 
policy if they had known the situation they found themselves in wouldnt be covered by the 
Travel Delay Inconvenience Benefit. I think its more likely than not that they wouldnt have 
chosen to buy another policy for their trip just on the unlikely basis that their flight would be 
re-routed during the flight and they would have to stopover the night in another country.
Although Ive reached a different conclusion than our investigator on the complaint I dont 
think that has to mean the relevant policy wording is unclear. When a complaint is referred to 
me for a decision I look at all details of the complaint afresh and I may come to a different 
conclusion than the investigator.
Miss H and Mr H say theyve been financially disadvantaged by the title of the Travel Delay 
Inconvenience Benefit and the title is misleading. I think an insurer can reasonably consider 
that a consumer wont buy travel insurance or an option under the insurance just on the title 
of one section of the policy. I think the policy wording is clear that benefit was for if Miss H 
and Mr H were delayed because of the late departure of an aircraft, and thats not why they 
were delayed.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and above I think that Society of Lloyds 
fairly and reasonably declined Miss H and Mr H claim for the Travel Delay Inconvenience 
Benefit and that theres no basis for me to award any compensation for Miss H and Mr Hs 
inconvenience in making this complaint.
I mentioned in my provisional findings above that the policy does cover certain specified 
costs for a change of itinerary, subject to the policy terms and conditions so Miss H and 
Mr H might want to make a claim for any relevant expenses due to their change of itinerary 
for Society of Lloyds to assess. 
Also, if Miss H and Mr H were on a package holiday the holiday provider has specified 
responsibilities to them under the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 so Miss H and Mr H may want to look into that if theyve not already done 
so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman