DRN-3394289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they lost out on the interest rate product they wanted due to 
errors by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires.
What happened
A broker applied to Birmingham Midshires for a buy to let mortgage on behalf of Mr and 
Mrs C. Mr and Mrs C say the broker first tried to submit the application on 13 November 
2020 but was unable to do so due to problems with Birmingham Midshires systems. By the 
time the application was submitted the interest rate product Mr and Mrs C wanted had been 
withdrawn. They say they didnt know the mortgage had a higher interest rate until after 
theyd completed. 
Our investigator said the evidence didnt show that Mr and Mrs C missed out on the rate they 
wanted due to an error by Birmingham Midshires. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C said evidence from Birmingham Midshires was inconsistent. Mr C asked us to 
establish the exact times and dates of events, how documents were sent and how terms 
were used. We provide an informal dispute resolution service. In keeping with that, while Ive 
read all of the comments and evidence provided, I wont respond to each comment made. I 
should also say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage has a fixed interest rate product of 1.99%. They say it isnt fair for 
Birmingham Midshires to apply this rate. They say they applied for a rate of 1.61% and didnt 
know this had changed until after the mortgage completed. Mr and Mrs C also say theyd 
have secured the lower rate if Birmingham Midshires system had worked as it should.
Birmingham Midshires issued a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs C on 9 December 2020. This 
set out an interest rate of 1.99%. Mr and Mrs C accepted the terms of the offer, including the 
interest rate, when they took out the mortgage. A copy of the mortgage offer was posted to 
Mr and Mrs C. Copies were also sent to their solicitor and their broker. 
Mr C says they didnt receive the mortgage offer until after the mortgage completed. He says 
Birmingham Midshires shouldnt have used the postal service at Christmas time. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Cs broker and solicitor did receive copies before the mortgage 
completed. The broker chased Birmingham Midshires on 14 December 2020 saying the 
solicitor hadnt received the offer. It seems likely that the broker would have mentioned it if 
theyd not had a copy. A further copy was emailed to the solicitor. Its unlikely the solicitor 
would have proceeded to completion without a mortgage offer. 
The mortgage offer set out the terms on which Birmingham Midshires agreed to lend. Mr C 
says if hed read the mortgage offer hed have spotted the 1.99% interest rate. Its 
unfortunate if Mr and Mrs C didnt read the mortgage offer before taking out the mortgage, 
but I dont think Birmingham Midshires is responsible for this. If Mr and Mrs C hadnt 
received the copy posted to them they could have asked for a copy from their broker or 
solicitor. 
I dont think its reasonable to hold Birmingham Midshires responsible for Mr and Mrs Cs 
decision to accept a mortgage offer without checking the terms were acceptable to them. Mr 
and Mrs C took out a buy to let mortgage. Letting property is a business. I think its 
reasonable for Birmingham Midshires to expect Mr and Mrs C to check the terms on which 
they take out finance for their buy to let property.
Mr and Mrs C also say that they would have secured the lower interest rate if Birmingham 
Midshires hadnt delayed their application. 
Birmingham Midshires says the 1.61% product Mr and Mrs C wanted was withdrawn on 25 
November 2020. It provided evidence to support this. Mr and Mrs C made a full mortgage 
application on 26 November 2020. This was after the product had been withdrawn. 
Mr and Mrs C say that their broker had difficulty submitting their application due to problems 
with Birmingham Midshires systems. They say the broker first tried to make the application 
on 13 November 2020 and wasnt successful until 26 November 2020.
Birmingham Midshires says it didnt have system problems that prevented the application 
being submitted before 26 November 2020. It provided internal records to support this. I 
dont think based on the available evidence there was a problem with Birmingham Midshires 
systems that delayed the application being submitted from 13 November to 26 November 
2020.  
The broker sent a message to Birmingham Midshires in the late evening of 24 November 
2020 with a query, saying the decision in principle was shown as pending and she hadnt 
been issued with a reference number. Birmingham Midshires responded the next morning. 
Birmingham Midshires issued a mortgage illustration on 25 November 2020. This had an 
interest rate of 1.61%. Birmingham Midshires says there was a warning on the screen that 
the quote wasnt valid and the product was no longer available. It provided a screen shot to 
support this. Mr C says the broker might not have seen the warning. But, in any case, the 
mortgage illustration said it wasnt a mortgage offer and was only valid for that day. 
Mr C asked what time on 25 November 2020 the product was withdraw and for more 
investigation into why the broker had been unable to submit an application on 25 November 
2020. The screen shot referred to above shows that the product had been withdrawn before 
the mortgage illustration was issued on 25 November 2020  hence the warning on the 
screen saying this. Most likely this is why, if the broker had tried to submit an application with 
the withdrawn product, they were unable to do so.  
Based on the available evidence I dont think its reasonable to say that Birmingham 
Midshires was responsible for any delay in Mr and Mrs Cs application being submitted. Its 
unfortunate for Mr and Mrs C that the product they wanted was withdrawn just before their 
mortgage application was submitted. But Birmingham Midshires is entitled to change the 
range of products it offers from time to time. 
I think Birmingham Midshires provided clear information about the interest rate that would 
apply to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage. This is set out in the mortgage offer. And I dont think Birmingham Midshires made errors which prevented Mr and Mrs C submitting their 
application while the product they preferred was available. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Birmingham Midshires to 
apply a lower interest rate to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage.
Mr C says they intend to take legal advice with a view to issuing a claim in the county court. 
If Mr and Mrs C dont accept my decision, they will be free to take the matter to court if they 
wish to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman