DRN-3865831
The complaint
Mr R complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited is responsible for answering this complaint 
and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Niche.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr R was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Niche 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr R was 53 years old, married and with no dependent children. He was in good 
health and at that point he had accrued around 27 years of pension benefits with the 
BSPS.
Mr and Mrs R lived in a home valued at around £175,000 with a mortgage 
outstanding of £57,000. The had a separate loan outstanding of £28,000. Niche 
didnt record on the fact-find how long the mortgage or loan still had to run.
Mr R earned £2,000 per month (net) and Mrs R earned £1,700. Their outgoings were 
less than this, so they had a disposable income of around £1,200 per month after 
expenses. They had no other savings or liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Rs BSPS was approximately 
£376,876 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. Niche said Mr R wanted to 
retire early if possible, at the age of 55.
Niche set out its advice in a suitability letter on 30 November 2017. It advised Mr R to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. Niche said 
this would allow Mr R to achieve his objectives. Mr R accepted this advice and so transferred 
to a personal pension. In 2021 Mr R complained to Niche about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, Niche said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr R had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niche's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Niche should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Rs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Rs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
Niche referred in its transfer analysis and suitability letter to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, I think its important to say that Niche itself acknowledged, during its advice, that 
the critical yields required to match the benefits of Mr Rs existing scheme were high. This is 
because in its suitability letter, of 30 November 2017, Niche said of the critical yield, even 
though this is not unachievable, it is not guaranteed. It said it would not recommend a 
transfer out on this basis. 
However, I think this was misleading as Niche nevertheless went onto recommend that he 
should transfer out anyway, for other reasons. But I also want to be clear that the critical 
yield wasnt, in my view, realistically achievable. And I cant see that Niche was able to 
demonstrate that Mr R might be able to grow his pension above the critical yield rates 
provided. The critical yields required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the BSPS2, 
were 5.87% if he took a pension without a tax-free lump sum; with a lump sum the rate was 
4.32%.
However, Niche itself said that Mr R wanted to retire at 55 and its entire recommendation is 
built on that premise. But in this case the critical yield rates were exceptionally high  
46.11% and 33.71% respectively. As our investigator pointed out, these werent referred to 
in the suitability letter. So as well as being very high, I dont think Mr R was given the 
information he needed to make an informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3.9% per year for 11 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. For an early retirement, at 55, the discount rate was 2.5%. 
Because these rates are significantly below the critical yields Ive referred to, this infers that 
reaching the growth level required to help make a transfer worthwhile, was highly unlikely. 
Niche should have been clear about this.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. Mr R was 
categorised as a cautious balanced attitude to risk (ATR). So, the regulators lower rate, 
which was applicable here, was also well below the critical yields. The critical yield rates for 
a reduced pension under the PPF scheme were lower than the others, but Niche said Mr R 
wasnt interested in doing this. Everything Ive therefore see here strongly suggests Mr R 
would receive lower pension benefits as a result of transferring out.
In addition to these things, Ive also noted that Niche said that in order to purchase an 
annuity to provide all the benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at age 
65, the funds required would be around £635,000 if taking a full pension and £529,000 if 
taking a pension and lump sum. Those at age 55 were even higher, so I think these figures 
provide a revealing window into the value of the benefits Mr R was being advised to give up.
So, Im very much persuaded to agree with Niches sentiments - when it said achieving the 
critical yield rates was unlikely. And although Niche wasnt as clear as it should have been about this when advising Mr R, it told him it wouldnt recommend a transfer on the basis of 
the critical yield figures alone. And so, having said this in 2017, it would be very hard for it 
now to argue these growth rates were achievable.
We know now that Niche still recommended that he transfer out, nonetheless. However, to 
be clear, Niches recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal pension was not 
predicated on the financial comparisons with the BSPS2 or PPF. Rather, Niche said Mr R 
had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other considerations 
which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower 
benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
Niche recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Rs 
wider objectives. It listed the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer 
away:
Mr R said hed like to retire early from the steel industry. It said hed be able to sell 
his home, as he and Mrs R were planning to move into a family members property 
without paying any rent. It said this sale could generate around £100,000.  
Niche said there was the potential for complete control over the funds if he 
transferred out, and what these were invested in.
There would be more flexible access to death benefits in a personal pension and 
hed be allowed to name a beneficiary. 
The future of the BSPS was a concern and Mr R didnt want to enter the PPF.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that Niche recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr R. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early 
Niche mentioned several times in documents from the time of the advice that Mr R had said 
he wanted to retire early. I dont doubt that Mr R might have genuinely hoped to retire as 
early as 55, which is what was recorded on the fact-find. But Ive also noted that this is a 
very basic document and theres some conflicts in the information it recorded. Sections 
about Mr and Mrs Rs borrowing didnt show how long their mortgage and loan were 
outstanding for and Ive also seen different information about her being either employed or 
self-employed. Niche also didnt record here what type of pension Mrs R had as I think this 
could have been relevant. Ive also seen nothing that shows retirement was anything more 
than something Mr R aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated 
plan. It was recorded he would like to retire from his current industry but at 53 and in good 
health, I think there was every possibility hed like to take another job.
I mention these things because I dont think Niche really got to grips with Mr Rs 
circumstances. Its job, as a regulated financial advisor, was not to just transact what Mr R 
thought he wanted. Its job was to really understand his situation and provide advice that was 
in his best interests. Niche also promoted that Mr R could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But Niche should have 
been telling Mr R at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal 
pension, potentially from the age of 55, also came with consequences in that the amount left 
for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
Even if I were to consider that Mr Rs retirement plans were more fixed - and he really did 
want to retire early - I think Niche should have better assessed the possibility of achieving 
this goal whilst being a member of the BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the 
BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still have been an option for Mr R, although this would 
have meant Mr Rs pension benefits would have been somewhat different due to him 
accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But I think this was discounted by Niche as Ive 
seen no evidence it was realistically discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more 
in Mr Rs best interests. The advice simply focussed on him transferring away completely.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr R faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. 
Flexibility
I cant see that Mr R required flexibility in retirement in the way Niche suggested. Niche said 
that Mr Rs estimated annual pension upon his NRA was £19,918 per year or £16,137 at the 
age of 55. As a DB pension this was guaranteed and index linked. So, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Mr R wouldnt have been able to meet his likely retirement 
income needs by accessing his DB pension instead of transferring out to a personal pension 
plan. 
Niche said Mr R was intending to sell his home up when he left work and move to a familys 
members home, the implication here was that it would be at no cost. He and Mrs R would be 
able to then sell their home and repay the mortgage and have around £100,000 in a cash 
sum. However, its not clear to me on what basis, if any, this affected the advice he was 
given. On one level, it would likely make Mr R less in need of a tax-free lump sum removal 
from his pension; and on another, it certainly conflicts with what Niche implies was his 
apparent desire to control several hundred thousand pounds worth of transferred pension 
funds in a personal plan linked to stock market investments.
Ive seen nothing that shows Mr R had a need for flexibility in his income going forward. In 
fact, I think the objectives listed by Niche in the context are no more than stock ideals 
unrelated to Mr Rs situation. Under the auspices of a DB scheme and their other resources, 
I think Mr and Mrs R could hope to enjoy a very satisfactory retirement from a financial 
perspective. Whenever Mr R chose to draw his pension benefits, for example, I think they 
were in a good position. 
For instance, I dont think Niche took enough account of his second pension  his 
employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. Mr R and his employer were making 
significant contributions to this of 6% and 10% respectively and there was already some 
money in the fund. So, even a few years worth of being in this pension would have mattered 
- there could have been a reasonable amount in this DC pension to complement his deferred 
DB scheme (in BSPS2). So by retirement, on one hand Mr R would have had a long-standing DB pension with all the 
guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other hand, hed have built 
up a reasonable DC pension over a few years, which, if he later found he did require 
flexibility, this pension could have helped provide this. By the age of 55 this DC fund was 
projected to be over £35,000.
I have therefore considered what Niche said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, Mr R was already able to retire early from the BSPS2 if he wanted to which would 
have been in accordance with his aspirations. Niche also implied that Mr R would be able to 
have complete control over the pension if he transferred out. But Ive seen nothing which 
shows Mr R had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his pension. 
The evidence here is that Mr Rs previous exposure to investing was extremely limited and 
he wanted no risk. 
So, I think Mr Rs circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 
and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. Because he also had a smaller 
second DC pension, and Mrs R also evidently had a pension of her own, this supported that 
strategy in my view. 
I therefore think the suitable option was for Mr R to access his DB pension in the way it was 
originally intended.
Death benefits 
Niche says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr R died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr R. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Niche explored to what 
extent Mr R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Mr R was only 53 and in good health. He had no children of his own and he was married. 
So, I think the likely death benefits attached to the DB scheme were substantially 
underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been very useful to 
Mrs R if Mr R predeceased her. I dont think Niche made the value of this benefit clear 
enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And when 
Niche says he could name another beneficiary under a personal pension plan, its hard to 
see who hed nominate other than his own wife. Niche provided no such details.
I also cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. 
But at 53 years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have been a reasonably 
affordable product if Mr R really did want to leave a legacy for someone other than Mrs R. 
Furthermore, it doesnt appear that Niche took into account the fact that Mr R could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr R 
already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. I think this 
objective, listed briefly as it was in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment 
and not meaningful to Mr Rs situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr R, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Niche said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
Niche said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr R was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Niches obligation to give Mr R an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Niche 
should have reassured Mr R that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr R through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his actual ATR and the effect of 
pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns should have led to Niches recommendation to Mr R to transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the 
evidence shows Mr R was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there 
were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think 
Niche ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, 
particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr R still had a 
few more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr R would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr R was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr R chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. On this basis, I also think Niche should have advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr R would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Niche disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr R, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr R to transfer out, and I think Mr R relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr R would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Niches advice. I say this because Mr R was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Niche had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Niche had explained Mr R was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Niche should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Niche should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked several times Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be 
calculated now, in line with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. His representative didnt make a choice when we asked, so as set out previously 
Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a 
loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R. 
Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. This calculation should be carried out as at the date of 
my final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that 
decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of the decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr R of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £250 should be paid to Mr R by Niche for what he 
referred to the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into 
consideration Mr Rs age, circumstances and the substantial amount hed built up in his 
pension to that date; Mr R had built up his pension over a long time. Also, by retirement this 
DB pension would still have been a significant part of his overall pension entitlement so I 
think the thought of losing benefits would have negatively impacted Mr R. So, I agree that 
Niche should also pay Mr R £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice 
which has likely had an impact on his retirement planningWhere I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman