DRN-3653731
The complaint
Mr M complained to BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA 
Financial Services (BMW) when a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
wasnt as expected.
What happened
BMW agreed credit for Mr M on 23 October 2021 via a third party dealership in order to 
acquire a car. The cash price of the car (which Ill later refer to as Car A), as per the hire 
purchase agreement, was £8,999. I understand Mr M had part-exchanged a car which 
he was paying for under a finance agreement and borrowed the balance of £8,249 
which, plus £2,065 interest came to £10,314 (all figures rounded). This was to be repaid 
by 58 monthly instalments of £178. Ive set out below the figures from the sales invoice:
Total price (Car A) £8,999
Part-ex allowance £5,959
Amount needed £3,040
Outstanding finance £6,759
Net price £9,799
Amount to finance £8,249
Balance from Mr M £1,550
Mr M complained that the car didnt come with a service history, except for a record of a 
service carried out by the dealership prior to him acquiring it. Mr M says that the car was 
advertised as having a service history and he made the decision to acquire the car based 
on this information. He wasnt happy with what had been provided and wanted to reject 
the car.
BMW explained that the car had not been advertised with a full service history and so 
hadnt been misrepresented to Mr M. It said that the record of the dealerships service 
constituted a partial service history. BMW said that the dealership had attempted to find 
out more information about the cars service history and had offered Mr M a six month 
extended warranty and two services free of charge as a gesture of goodwill. BMW didnt 
accept Mr Ms rejection of the car or consider that any further compensation was 
warranted.
Mr M didnt accept this response and brought his complaint to us in December 2021. One 
of our investigators looked into his complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld 
because they found the car hadnt been misrepresented to him. Mr M asked for his 
complaint to come to an ombudsman to resolve.
Things have moved on since Mr M brought his complaint to us. I understand from a 
conversation with BMW that Mr M settled his agreement in February 2022, and part-
exchanged Car A for a different car under a new hire purchase agreement with it. BMW 
said that the settlement figure for the Car A agreement was £8,084 and a statement of 
account shows that Mr M had made one monthly payment. I understand the new hire 
purchase repayments are £176 a month for 60 months.
I asked Mr M what he felt needed to be put right to resolve his complaint, given hed 
wanted to reject the car and it had since been part-exchanged under another agreement. 
Mr M said that he didnt want to keep a car without a service history and so acquired a 
different car from a different dealer which did have a service history. The part-exchange 
value this dealer offered him for Car A was considerably less than what hed paid for it. 
Mr M feels he would have been offered more in part-exchange if Car A had come with a 
service history and hes lost out because of this as he had to pay more himself to settle 
the agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 July 2022 explaining why I though Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld. I also proposed what BMW needed to do now to put things right. I 
allowed time for both parties to comment on my reasoning and proposed redress or share 
any further information they wished me to consider. Mr M said he had nothing further to 
add, except to say that he felt BMW had acted irresponsibly towards him in this matter. I 
havent had a response from BMW. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. These included, for example, the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 
and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC) which set out 
regulations and guidance for lenders such as BMW.
Having reviewed everything, and having had no further information from either party, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions and I am upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill set out my reasons for doing so again in this final decision, along with what I 
think BMW needs to do now to put things right. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, the credit to buy the car was granted by BMW under 
a hire purchase agreement meaning Mr M would own the car when the credit had been 
repaid. BMW was the owner until that point and Mr M was, in essence, paying for the use 
of it. As the owner of the car bought from the dealership, BMW was responsible for any 
negotiations the dealership had with Mr M, including advertisements, before he entered 
into the hire-purchase agreement.
Our investigator explained that they looked into whether or not the car had been 
misrepresented to Mr M, in other words whether or not a false statement of fact had been 
made about the car to Mr M which induced him to enter into the agreement for it. They 
found that Mr M hadnt been told that the car had a full service history or that it had a 
specified number of services; the advertisement Mr M referred to stated that the car had a 
service history, and the car came with evidence of one service therefore it had not been 
misrepresented to him.
As set out in the CRA, goods acquired under a hire purchase agreement should be as 
described in the contract. Information about the goods, including public statements such 
as advertisements, form part of the contract. Any change to that information is not 
effective unless expressly agreed between the consumer and the trader. So Ive started 
my review by considering whether or not the car was misdescribed to Mr M in the 
contract.The advertisement about the car (to which Mr M responded) contains the general 
statement All cars come with MOT and service history and a list of features specific to 
the car: WITH 2 OWNERS - CLOTH UPHOLSTERY  BLUETOOTH - CRUISE CONTROL  
SATNAV - REVERSE CAMERA - AIR CONDITIONING AND SERVICE HISTORY... The 
advertisement also states Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the 
information above. However, errors may occur. Check with a salesperson about items 
which may affect your decision to purchase.
While the advertisement mentions that the information provided may contain errors, 
neither Mr M nor BMW consider that is what happened here. BMW says that the car did 
come with a service history, albeit a partial one. Leaving aside the consideration of 
whether a single service by a selling dealership constitutes a partial service history, I 
understand that Mr Ms point is not that the car didnt have a full service history or that he 
wanted to acquire a car that had had a certain level of servicing, but that it didnt have any 
service history when it was advertised.
The car was first registered in August 2014 and the mileage on the sales invoice was 
55,734. I dont know the date of the advertisement but I assume it was advertised prior to 
16 October 2021 which is the date of the sales invoice from the dealership to BMW, in 
other words the day Mr M agreed to buy the car. I understand that the service (oil and 
filter) carried out by the dealership happened on that day.
I think its clear that the car was specifically advertised on or before 16 October 2021 as 
having a service history. Unless it was expressly agreed between Mr M and the 
dealership that the car as advertised didnt have a service history at that time, or indeed 
any other feature listed in the advertisement, then it seems to me that the car provided to 
Mr M was not as described. It also seems to me that this is a substantial misdescription in 
this case as Mr M says he would not have entered into the contract but for the 
misdescription. In other words, he would not have entered into the agreement for Car A if 
he knew that it didnt have a service history prior to his decision.
Mr M explained that he had a previous hire purchase agreement on a car from this same 
dealership acquired in May 2021 which came with a service history. The hire purchase 
agreement for Car A began on the 23 October 2021 and Mr M complained about the car 
to the dealership on the 25 October. As mentioned above, I understand that Mr M has 
since acquired a different car, which he says does have a service history. Altogether, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr M wouldnt have entered into this agreement for Car 
A, had he known that the only record of any work carried out on it was an oil and filter 
service on the day the sales invoice was drawn up. So I think Mr M should have been 
allowed to reject the car, as hed requested.
Mr M has now settled the agreement and sold Car A in part-exchange for a different car 
from a different dealership with finance again from BMW. Mr M says hes lost out 
financially because he was offered a part-exchange value of £5,550, considerably less 
than the price of £8,999 it was sold at. Mr M says that he would have been offered more if 
the car came with a record of services carried out prior to the oil and filter service carried 
out by the dealership.
I dont disagree with Mr Ms point, but service history is only one of many factors a dealer 
might take into consideration when coming to a valuation on a part-exchange vehicle. 
These might include, for example, vehicle mileage and condition and Ive borne in mind 
here that Mr M had the use of Car A for a few months. I also dont know what factors the 
selling dealership considered when putting a price on Car A for Mr M in the first place. So 
any difference between the price he bought it and then sold it for due solely to the level of 
service history is hard to quantify.However, I understand from Mr M that he has ended up with a similarly priced car, under a 
new, similar agreement with BMW. It seems unfair to me that hes arrived at this point 
having settled an intervening agreement and Ive thought about the financial position Mr M 
might be in now if he hadnt taken out the agreement for Car A. I understand Mr M had to 
pay a settlement figure of £8,084 (for Car A) as opposed to the settlement figure he paid 
for his existing agreement of £6,759, a difference of £1,325. Taking everything into 
account, I think BMW should refund this amount to Mr M.
We can consider awards to compensate for the practical and emotional impact a 
businesss mistake had, in addition to compensation for a financial loss. As set out on our 
website, an award of between £100 and up to £300 might be suitable where a businesss 
actions have resulted in an impact that lasts a few days or weeks and causes some 
distress and inconvenience. I think that Mr M suffered distress and inconvenience when 
the car he hired wasnt as described. As mentioned, Mr M had the use of the car for 
about three months and paid one months rental of £178. I think waiving two months 
rental costs is an appropriate compensation amount in this case, and I dont think BMW 
needs to make a separate award.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, the car Mr M acquired under this agreement wasnt as 
described prior to the sale and BMW should have allowed Mr M to reject the car. I 
think hes lost out by not being able to do this.
In order to put things right for Mr M, BMW needs to:
a) Refund Mr M an amount of £1,325; and
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount from the date the 
agreement for Car A was settled to the date this complaint is 
settled; and
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading 
as ALPHERA Financial Services and it now needs to take the above steps to put 
things right for him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman