DRN-2433928
The complaint
Mr R complains that Sainsburys Bank PLC failed to set up a direct debit to pay towards his 
credit card each month, then when it realised its mistake, failed to remove a default it had 
registered on his credit file.  
What happened
Mr R complained to our service in November 2019 that Sainsburys hadnt set up a direct 
debit to pay his credit card account each month, although it told him it had done so. 
Our investigator looked at the case early in 2020. He said that if the direct debit had been 
correctly set up when Mr R had requested it, the payments wouldnt have been missed. Mr R 
had shown us there was enough money in the account for the payments to be made. So our 
investigator said Sainsburys had unfairly registered the default on Mr Rs credit file. He said 
that the default and any late payment markers should be removed, and Sainsburys should 
also refund any fees and charges that were applied, from the time Mr R spoke to someone 
to set the direct debit up, to the date of his view, which was 28 February 2020.
Sainsburys agreed to do this, and Mr R accepted the resolution. Usually at this point, a 
complaint would be closed. But Mr R then ran into difficulties getting Sainsburys to do what it 
had promised. So this case came back to our service. 
What Mr R complains about now is still part of trying to resolve the complaint he brought to 
our service initially in November 2019. He has set out for our service a timeline of whats 
gone wrong, and how long it has taken to put things right.
Mr R told us that while Sainsburys was failing to remove the markers from his credit file, he 
incurred legal costs of around £2,000, and ended up facing costs of about £4,500 more each 
year for his new mortgage because Sainsburys hadnt cleared his credit file. He wanted 
Sainsburys to write off his debt, and make a sizeable contribution to those costs. He showed 
us that this default was still visible on his credit file in August 2020.
Sainsburys said that it did initially remove the default, but because it didnt also change the 
dates on Mr Rs debt, the default was just reapplied. It has now confirmed that the default 
was finally removed in late August 2020. 
Sainsburys was sorry this had taken so long. But it said that it wouldnt be fair to ask it to pay 
for additional mortgage costs, because Mr R couldve searched for a different, cheaper 
mortgage after this. His mortgage wasnt actually taken out until some weeks after this. It 
offered to pay Mr R a further £75 on top of the £125 it had already paid, to make a total of 
£200 for this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Sainsburys had to pay Mr Rs legal costs, because he had 
chosen to hire a solicitor to help him, and wouldve been aware of the costs involved when 
he made the decision to do that. And our investigator didnt think it was fair to ask 
Sainsburys to pay for Mr Rs additional monthly mortgage cost either, because Mr R couldve 
looked for a different mortgage. But he also didnt think that £200 was quite enough to make 
up for what had gone wrong. He said Sainsburys should pay £400 in compensation, and 
also a broker fee of £100 which Mr R had evidenced. 
Sainsburys agreed with this. But Mr R didnt. He wanted his complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman, so this case came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Sainsburys has accepted the mistakes it made in this case, and I understand that Mr Rs 
credit file has now, finally, been rectified. So the key issue for me to decide here is the 
appropriate level of compensation. 
Mr R hadnt explained to our service why he disagreed with our investigators view. He has 
previously asked for a sizeable contribution to his additional mortgage costs. But it wasnt 
clear why Mr R wasnt able to secure a better mortgage deal, as this default appeared to 
have been removed from his credit file around a month or more before Mr R committed to 
purchase his new home. 
Our service has asked Mr R about this. Ill set out his comments and my response to those 
below. 
I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair to ask Sainsburys to pay the costs that 
Mr R incurred hiring a solicitor. I think that Mr R made an informed choice to engage 
someone to work on this on his behalf, and its reasonable to assume that he would be 
aware of the cost of that when he did so. Our service doesnt usually assume that 
complainants will need a solicitors assistance to resolve a complaint brought to our service, 
and I think that remains true even in the difficult situation that Mr R faced.
I do think its reasonable to ask Sainsburys to pay £100 for the brokerage costs that Mr R 
has incurred, and Im pleased to see its agreed to do that. And, like our investigator, I dont 
think that a total payment of £200 in compensation would be the right amount to make up for 
whats gone wrong here. I think that a total amount of £400 in compensation would be part of 
providing a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I understand that Sainsburys has 
already paid £125 towards this complaint, and Ill allow it to take that payment into account 
as part of my award
Mr R also asked for a sizeable contribution to his additional mortgage costs, which he says 
would be around £4,500 to £5,000 per year.
Ive asked Mr R for more information on whether he tried to arrange a different mortgage 
once the default was removed from his credit file, or if not, whether he could explain to us if 
that wasnt possible. Mr R has now told us that by the time the default was removed, his 
house purchase had progressed a substantial way. He has explained the personal and 
family reasons he had for not wanting to lose this purchase. Mr R said that in a recent 
conversation with his mortgage advisor, the advisor had agreed that changing lender at that 
point would have been extremely difficult. 
I do understand Mr Rs reasons for choosing not to explore the option of a better value 
mortgage at the time. But it does appear that Mr R chose to prioritise an important house move, without apparently exploring the possibility of saving costs through a better mortgage 
offer. 
I would certainly accept that it wouldve been difficult to change mortgage provider at this 
point, and it may even not, in the end, have been possible to arrange a different mortgage in 
time. But I dont think I can say, on the evidence I have seen, that its more likely than not 
that Mr R would have had to go ahead with this more expensive mortgage in any event. And 
that also means Im not able to say that its solely Sainsburys fault that Mr R has faced, at 
least initially, a higher monthly mortgage cost. 
Mr R has also told us that he doesnt actually intend to keep this mortgage for its full term. I 
understand he is planning to explore remortgaging elsewhere, on the basis that he should 
now be able to secure a rather better deal. And that means Im also not able to say that this 
cost is most likely to continue for the next few years. 
So, for those reasons, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Sainsburys to 
make the substantial contribution towards mortgage costs that Mr R would like.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank PLC must pay Mr R a total of £400, made up of 
£100 in costs and £400 in compensation, for this complaint. Sainsburys Bank PLC can count 
towards that award any amount it has already paid to Mr R for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman