DRN-4200105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Connells Limited (Connells) relates to the advice they 
received from them about taking a five-year fixed rate mortgage product (the mortgage) with 
Virgin Money. They feel the mortgage was grossly overpriced and that they should have 
been advised there were other mortgage products available on the market which had 
tapered early repayment charges (ERCs), not just a static flat ERC.
What happened
In May 2016 Mr and Mrs B obtained mortgage advice from Connells. This was Mr and 
Mrs Bs first property purchase, and they wanted the cheapest mortgage product available. 
Connells advised that a two-year fixed rate mortgage from Virgin Money was suitable, and 
an offer was issued to Mr and Mrs B in May 2016. 
As a result of a change to the purchase price and Mr and Mrs B evaluating the outcome of 
the Brexit vote, they decided not to proceed with that mortgage offer and asked Connells for 
more advice. 
In August 2016 Connells advised Mr and Mrs B that a five-year fixed rate mortgage from 
Virgin Money which contained an ERC was suitable. This was not the cheapest mortgage 
product available, and Connells provided no further advice on alternative products.
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs B decided to move home and in so doing incurred an ERC of 
around £15,000.
Mr and Mrs B feel that as this was the first time they had ever had a mortgage they could not 
have been expected to know that a static ERC was the only type available on the market. 
They accept that they had received a Key Facts Illustration (KFI) document as well as the 
Mortgage Offer which had set out the amount of the ERC and how and when it might 
become payable. However, they argued that they were relying on the professional advice of 
Connells mortgage adviser, and although they had reviewed the mortgage terms, they were 
unable to appreciate that the product was in fact unsuitable for them, until they decided to 
move in 2020.
Connells felt that the ERC had been clearly set out in the documentation Mr and Mrs B had 
received. As such they argued that the onus was on them to check that they were satisfied 
with the terms of the mortgage before proceeding with it. Connells further argued that Mr and 
Mrs Bs Solicitor would also have been aware of the terms, and it would also have been their 
responsibility to explain it to them.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with Connellss final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Connells 
hadnt acted fairly or reasonably, and that they ought to carry out a remediation exercise to 
put Mr and Mrs B back into the position they would have been, had they proceeded with the 
cheapest suitable mortgage product, that being one from the West Bromwich Building 
Society (the West Brom).
Connells didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered 
all the available evidence. Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence which is available. 
When Mr and Mrs B initial received advice from Connells, they werent at that stage looking 
to move or repay the mortgage. That advice was therefore appropriate in so far as it related 
to that product. That advice was for the cheapest two-year fixed rate product. 
There hasnt been any evidence produced which would indicate Mr and Mrs Bs 
requirements changed when they then decided to take out the Virgin Money five-year fixed 
rate product, and as out investigator has explained there were 17 other cheaper options 
available at that time. Further, Connells have not provided any evidence to justify why the 
Virgin Money product was advised as opposed to any of the other cheaper options.
On the balance of probabilities, I find that it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B would 
have chosen the cheapest option available if this had been offered. That is because that was 
their stated wish. 
Our investigator has highlighted that for mortgage product with West Brom, the total five-
year cost was £75,864. Contrasting that with the Virgin Moneys mortgage product cost of 
£79,917, produces a significant and material difference, which I think it is likely that Mr and 
Mrs B would have preferred and chosen to proceed with if they had been given the choice. I 
cannot however be completely certain that Mr and Mrs B would have been offered a 
mortgage with West Brom because each lender has different qualifying criteria. However, 
once again, I think it is more likely than not that they would have received an offer, when I 
take into account that Virgin were prepared to make them an offer, and there is no other 
factor which could suggest that the West Brom wouldnt have viewed their application in 
similar favourable terms. 
I have also taken into consideration that the ERCs with West Brom appear to be less than 
those with Virgin Money and on also on a tapered basis. This difference has had a financial 
impact upon Mr and Mrs B because when they repaid the Virgin Money mortgage it was 
more than it would have been had they taken a mortgage with West Brom.
Connells advice regarding the Virgin five-year fixed rate mortgage was in or around the 
25 July 2016, which Connells have said was very close to the date of exchange of contracts 
on 28 July 2016. Completion of the purchase was on 8 August 2016 and although this 
timeline is very tight, the important factor here is that Mr and Mrs B had the power to delay 
both the exchange of contracts and completion if they had so wished. The West Brom or indeed any other new lender might well have been able to produce a new mortgage offer 
within that extended time period. As Mr and Mrs B wanted the lowest cost I think it more 
likely than otherwise that they would have sought to delay exchange. 
Putting things right
So, in my view Connells have not acted fairly or reasonably here and Im upholding this 
complaint. I agree with our investigators suggested redress, and the compensatory award 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
So, my final decision is that Connells Limited must;
1. put Mr and Mrs B into the position they would have been in had they proceeded with 
the West Brom mortgage, the details of which were set out in the sourcing 
information they provided.
2. to do that Connells must carry out a remediation exercise taking into account all initial 
fees, monthly payments and ERCs. Account must also be taken of cashback paid or 
payable and any other relevant financial features.
3. Added to the refunded payment to Mr and Mrs B shall be compensatory 8% simple 
interest from the date of the Virgin Money mortgage redemption to the date of 
payment. 
4. pay Mr and Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman