DRN-4133183
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the service provided Great Lakes Insurance SE when they 
made a claim under their travel insurance policy.
I will refer to Great Lakes for simplicity  but this also includes its agents. 
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in detail here. In summary 
Mrs H required a total arthroscopy of her hip following a fall.
Mr and Mrs H asked for their policy to be extended for a further 10 days to cover them for 
their drive from Europe back to the UK. Great Lakes refused. It obtained a report to say that 
Mrs H was fit to fly on 6 September 2022 and therefore said it wasnt medically necessary for 
her to stay longer abroad.
Our investigator didnt find that Great Lakes had acted outside the terms of the policy which 
provide:
section 3a Emergency Medical & Repatriation Expenses
What is covered: We will pay up to the amount shown on the table of benefits for each 
insured person who suffers sudden and unforeseen bodily injury, or illness, or who dies 
during a trip outside your home country for the following:
d) additional travelling costs to repatriate you home when recommended by our medical 
officer e) the cost of a medical escort if considered necessary by our medical officer f) up 
to£2,000 for you to extend your stay, if (assistance company) agrees that it is medically 
necessary
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy. 
I issued a provisional decision and said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every point made by the 
parties. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
My provisional decision is that Great Lakes didnt treat Mr and Mrs H fairly and that 
compensation is due. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H had travelled to Europe by car and wished to return that way, together. To this 
end they had requested that their insurance cover, which was originally valid for 35 days, be 
extended for another 10 days to cover their journey home. I find that this was a very 
reasonable request.
But having obtained a report from the hospital where Mrs H had been treated Great Lakes 
determined that it wasnt medically necessary for her to remain abroad and it wanted to 
organise repatriation by air. Although this did accord with the term of the policy referenced 
above, it is not clear to what questions were asked when the report was requested. I think it 
would have been reasonable for Great Lakes to ask if Mrs H was fit to travel by car. Great 
Lakes hasnt responded to my question as to whether this enquiry was made.
It also hasnt responded to my question as to why less weight was attached to the medical 
report provided by Mr and Mrs H dated 2 September 2022 which indicated that Mrs H would 
be unable to travel for six weeks.
Mr and Mrs H had advised Great Lakes that Mrs H was seeing the surgeon who operated on 
her on 20 September 2022. She wanted to see him and take his advice before travelling. I 
think it would have been reasonable for Great Lakes to either wait for the outcome of this 
consultation or contact the treating doctor. The report Great Lakes relied on was from a 
hospital registrar not known to Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H found the situation very stressful. Their reasonable and detailed requests 
made by Mr H at the time werent given due consideration. It is not for this service to 
regulate or punish financial businesses or to tell them how to operate. But Im satisfied that 
the apparent lack of consideration for Mr and Mrs Hs situation, and the failure to seek the 
advice of the treating surgeon, caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I find that 
compensation is merited. Putting a financial figure on distress is never easy but taking 
everything into consideration I am minded to require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr 
and Mrs H £350.
Mr and Mrs H were pleased with the provisional findings which they felt to some extent 
vindicated their view that at a time of tremendous stress, the companies that should have 
supported Mrs H only added to her distress by adopting the intransigent position that they 
took. They felt that Great Lakes and its agents had not shown the slightest compassion to 
Mrs H  their attitude was they knew best and she had to comply.
Great Lakes didnt feel my provisional findings were particularly fair as all actions were made 
within the contract terms and for the best interests of the patient and all plans were 
confirmed and cleared by the relevant people at the hospital. 
Great Lakes emphasised that it was not medically necessary for Mrs H to stay abroad. It 
quoted the medical team notes as to requesting the repatriation by flight earlier. They 
included these patients require rehabilitation as per UK guidance, to remain in bed for six 
weeks could be very detrimental. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not persuaded to change my provisional findings. I will explain why. 
I do accept that Great Lakes, and its agents acted within the policy terms which allow for a 
stay extension if medically necessary.Nevertheless although Great Lakes argue that all plans were confirmed and cleared by the 
relevant people at the hospital, there was a lack of contact with Mrs Hs treating surgeon. It 
relied on a report from a physician unknown to her. It has never answered the question as to 
whether an enquiry was made about travelling home by car.
The medical team notes indicate that for Mrs H to remain in bed for six weeks would be 
detrimental  but it was never suggested that she would remain in bed abroad, only that she 
would be unable to travel for six weeks. She advised she was having physiotherapy and was 
convalescing at her place abroad. 
Overall, for the reasons given here and in my provisional findings which I adopt here, Im not 
persuaded that due consideration was given to Mr and Mrs Hs situation. I therefore remain 
of the opinion that they were caused unnecessary stress when their reasonable requests 
werent given due consideration. And for this reason, compensation is merited.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
pay Mr H and Mrs H a total of £350 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman