DRN-3285973
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank 
(Tesco), provided him a loan after falling victim to a fraud.
What happened
In 2016, Mr W fell victim to an elaborate and sophisticated investment fraud. Mr W had 
invested a large amount of money in a so-called binary options investment company. But 
when he attempted to release some of his equity, he was informed that he wasnt able to 
do so until hed reached a certain level of investment.
Mr W informed the fraudster that he didnt have any further funds to invest. It was at 
this point that the fraudster suggested taking out a loan in order to make up the 
remaining amount required to draw his investment. Mr W says that he didnt have any 
other choice, other than to lose his investment. So, he agreed to go ahead with the 
loan.
Mr W says that he was too busy to apply for the loan. So, the fraudster suggested that 
they contact Tesco on Mr Ws behalf, which he agreed to. The fraudster took the relevant 
information required for the loan from Mr W and applied for a personal loan of £23,500. 
The loan was approved and paid into a bank account held in Mr Ws name. On 26 
September 2016, Mr W transferred £23,423 to the fraudsters from his bank account where 
the loan had been received.
The fraudster continued to deceive Mr W by informing him that the loan payment hadnt 
been received. Mr W continued to send money to the fraudster that hed loaned from a 
family member. But eventually the requests became unreasonable to Mr W and he 
realised the company wasnt legitimate and he had in fact been defrauded.
Mr W reported the fraud to Tesco, but it told him it couldnt raise a fraud claim as 
hed admitted to signing and agreeing to the loan. He continued to make payments 
on the account until 2020 where he approached our service to look into things 
again.
Tesco looked into Mr Ws concerns but didnt think itd made an error. It said that as Mr W 
had agreed to the loan and the funds were paid into his personal bank account, it couldnt 
be held responsible for any subsequent payments made to a third-party.
Mr W remained unhappy with Tescos response, so an Investigator at our service looked 
into his concerns again. After reviewing the evidence, the Investigator disagreed with Tesco 
and recommended that the complaint be upheld.
In summary, they thought Tescos affordability and creditworthiness checks werent 
sufficient. And had sufficient checks been carried out, they thought Tesco likely would 
have
uncovered the incorrect information held on the application and, ultimately, the fraud. 
They recommended Tesco write off the loan, return any repayments to Mr W including 
interest, remove any reporting of the loan from Mr Ws credit file and pay £300 in 
compensation for the impact of the error.
Tesco disagreed with the recommendations. It highlighted the following reasons:
The application was completed online, and sufficient verification checks were 
carried out on the information provided using Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) to 
ensure the application was genuine.
The credit agreement was posted to Mr Ws genuine address and he agreed to 
this by signing and returning it.
The loan was paid into Mr Ws genuine account. It wasnt until this point that Mr 
W decided to transfer the loan to a third-party.
It felt it adhered to the regulatory requirements when carrying out proportionate 
affordability checks and didnt feel further checks were warranted due to Mr Ws 
good credit history and low risk score.
Nothing in the application form indicated vulnerability or an attempt to defraud it.
It felt that it couldnt be held responsible for any loss as it didnt have control 
over how Mr W chose to spend the loan.
As Tesco disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter was passed to me for 
a decision.
On 8 March 2022 I issued provisional findings to both parties asking for any further 
comments and evidence by 22 March 2022. My provisional findings were as follows:
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Affordability
There are two key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions 
are:
1. Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr W would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr 
W could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Tesco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Tescos obligations at the time are set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook 
(CONC). Amongst other things, this sets out that assessments should be carried out 
to establish the creditworthiness of a customer prior to lending.
In short, CONC 5.2.3 says that the extent of any creditworthiness assessment should 
be dependent upon, and proportionate to, a number of factors. Some of these factors 
include:
The amount of creditThe financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit
The customers existing financial commitments including mortgages
CONC 5.3.1 goes on to say that if income and expenditure is taken into account in its 
creditworthiness assessment, it is not generally sufficient to reply upon a statement of 
those matters made by the customer.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Tesco has supplied the information provided on the 
loan application form. This sets out basic information such as Mr Ws personal information 
including employment status, monthly income, residential status, repayments on existing 
debt and the purpose of the loan. Mr W has confirmed that some of the information set out 
in the application is incorrect. This includes:
He was self-employed rather than full time employed
His salary was inflated considerably
He wasnt taking the loan out for home improvements
Tesco has said that it fulfilled its obligation to carry out affordability and due diligence 
checks by running the information provided in the application through credit reference 
agencies (CRAs), which is an independent source. This satisfied it that the information 
provided matched Mr Ws and that he could afford the loan repayments. It was also 
satisfied that
Mr W had applied for the loan as it was being paid into an account in his name and the 
credit agreement was delivered to his genuine address, signed and returned.
Other than the checks carried out via CRAs, Tesco has confirmed that it didnt perform 
any other checks, such as on Mr Ws employment status or income and regular monthly 
expenditure, which wouldnt have been provided through CRA checks.
As Ive already touched upon, CONC says that checks have to be proportionate to the 
specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a proportionate 
affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors including, but not limited to, 
the circumstances of the borrower and the amount, type and cost of credit they are 
seeking. In light of this, a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
The lower a customers income
The higher the amount due to be repaid
The longer the term of the loan
In the circumstances of this complaint, it appears that Tesco took some of the 
information provided at face value, such as Mr Ws income and employment status.
The checks Tesco were required to carry out had to be borrower focused. So instead of 
seeing how statistically likely Mr W was to repay the borrowing, it needed to assess 
whether he could sustainably repay the borrowing, taking into account his personal 
circumstances.
And it needed to base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information. So, I 
think the checks needed to take into account Mr Ws personal circumstances.
In this case, Mr W had to pay back £23,500 over ten years with monthly repayments of
£299.94. So, I think this was a significant commitment.Tesco has supplied a copy of the credit assessment it undertook. This gave summaries of 
Mr Ws credit commitments with a total balance of £98,133  the majority of which was a 
mortgage, which had a balance of £91,000. Tesco has recorded this as a joint mortgage 
and halved the monthly repayment commitment from £306 to £153. However, having 
looked at Mr Ws credit report, there is no indication that the mortgage was joint and shows 
Mr Ws repayments as £306.
The credit search also shows Mr W had a loan with a balance of £7,133 and payments 
of around £200 per month.
Tesco also estimated Mr Ws monthly living expenses as £320 based upon 
statistical information rather than information supplied by Mr W himself.
Ive also considered that the loan application contained Mr Ws employment status as full 
time employed but listed the name of the company he was employed with as containing 
his own surname, which could have been an indicator that it was in fact his own company 
and he was in fact self-employed. And as Ive highlighted above, the rules state that its 
not generally acceptable when taking into account a customer income and expenditure to 
rely upon a statement made by the customer on those matters.
Mr W has told our service that he was receiving an average salary of £1,252 in the three 
months prior to the loan application. This was significantly lower than that claimed on 
the application form by the fraudster. And Mr W was unaware of this fact as hed not 
filled out the application and didnt receive a copy of the information contained within it.
Tesco has made submissions that even based upon this income, Mr W would have been 
approved for the loan. But based on its own calculations, itd predicted Mr Ws outgoings 
as
£653. Adding the loan repayments applied for, this would have increased Mr Ws estimated 
expenditure to £958, bringing it very close to his total monthly income. I think this would 
have presented an additional concern to Tesco.
Considering all the above factors, Im minded to find that the checks carried out by 
Tesco werent sufficient to satisfy its requirements under CONC. This is particularly so 
when considering the loan amount, term of repayment and repayment amount.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Tesco that Mr W would 
have been unable to repay the loan?
Mr W has provided us with his bank statements from around the time he applied for the 
agreement. These provide some detail about his income and expenditure. I appreciate 
different checks show different things, and Tesco may have chosen to look at 
something else, but I think these are fair for me to consider when weighing up Mr Ws 
financial circumstances at the time he entered into the agreement.
These statements corroborate Mr Ws salary as being, on average, £1,252 per month. It 
also shows that Mr W had a committed monthly expenditure of approximately £1000.
This left Mr W with approximately £260 for other expenditure. And when considering that 
the repayments for the debt applied for required monthly repayments higher than £260, this 
loan was unaffordable to Mr W.Could Tesco have identified and prevented the fraud?
Having reviewed the evidence provided by both parties, Im minded to come to a 
different view of that expressed in the Investigators assessment.
While Ive highlighted in my provisional findings that Tescos affordability checks werent 
proportionate and the loan was unaffordable, I dont think it would have been obvious to 
it that Mr W had fallen victim to a fraud.
Additional affordability or creditworthiness checks likely would have resulted in Tesco 
asking Mr W to provide additional information to prove his monthly expenditure and 
monthly salary. And while this would have shown that he couldnt afford the repayments of 
the loan, it likely wouldnt have revealed the circumstances in which he was applying for it.
Mr W was aware that the loan was being applied for. He willingly provided his 
personal information to a third-party to allow them to apply for the loan on his behalf 
and admits signing and returning the credit agreement.
The evidence that Mr W likely would have provided to Tesco would have likely resulted in it 
ultimately rejecting the application rather than it contacting him to question the 
discrepancies. So, I dont think Tesco were provided with an opportunity to identify the 
fraud. It knew Mr W was receiving the funds into his own bank account. It had also 
confirmed his identity via CRA checks and by sending the credit agreement to his genuine 
home address and had this returned signed. I dont think this presented sufficient suspicion 
surrounding the circumstances of the application to reasonably suspect a third-partys 
involvement and question it.
In addition to this, Mr W should bear some responsibility in allowing a relatively untrusted 
third-party permission to apply for the loan on his behalf. And I dont think he checked that 
the information within that application was accurate and true before signing and returning 
the credit agreement associated with it.
Ultimately, Mr W did give permission for the application to be made by the third-party. And 
he did receive the funds associated with that loan to his genuine bank account. I 
appreciate and empathise with the fact that he didnt receive the benefit of these funds, as 
he transferred them onto the fraudster. But I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold 
Tesco liable for this loss.
For the above reasons, I dont think its fair to hold Tesco liable for the principle sum of 
the loan amount.
I concluded that I was minded to uphold the complaint and direct Tesco to:
1. Refund all interest, fees and charges Mr W has paid on the loan adding 8% 
simple annual interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
2. Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset.
3. Remove any adverse reporting of the debt from Mr Ws credit file.
Mr Ws response
Mr W said that his main assertion in this matter was that a crime had been committed. He felt that it was inappropriate that Tesco desired to be the inadvertent beneficiary of the crime.
He asked that a more favourable compromise be considered and that his monthly 
repayments end rather than him paying for being a victim of crime.
He further added that he thought there was a drive to stamp out this type of crime rather 
than prologing it.
Tescos response
Tesco remained of the opinion that its original lending decision was correct. It repeated 
some of the obligations set out in CONC that Id highlighted in my provisional findings and 
said that its checks were proportionate. It said:
Whether income verification checks were needed or not is risk based as it would be 
impractical to verify every last customer.
It was unaware of any way to verify the employment status or loan purpose for every 
customer.
The application set out that Mr W was full-time employed. Had it known Mr W was 
self-employed, and had been for less than two years, it would have verified his 
income.
It would only refer a customer if the value of the loan was over a certain threshold, 
which was not met.
The length of the loan was 10 years, which is the maximum allowed. Based on 
Mr Ws declared income and age at the end of the loan term, it had no reason to be 
concerned.
Now that both parties have responded to the findings set out in my provisional decision, Im 
now ready to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the responses to my provisional findings, I dont intent to depart from the 
findings made. Ive set out in the provisional decision why I was minded to conclude the way 
in which I did. So, I dont intent to repeat these points again in my final decision. But I will 
address some of the concerns raised by both parties.
Mr Ws response
Mr W has highlighted that a crime has been committed against him and that this is his main 
assertion. But Tesco, nor I, have denied this point. 
Im empathetic to Mr Ws circumstances, and that hes been victim to a callous fraud. But the 
person responsible for the fraud committed against him is ultimately the fraudster 
themselves. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold financial businesses liable for the losses 
of all victims of crime unless a business failed in its legal, regulatory or good industry 
practice obligations to protect the customer and prevent the loss.
As Ive set out in my provisional decision, I dont think Tesco did fail to identify and prevent 
the fraud from taking placed. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to hold it liable for the loss.Id also like to point out to Mr W that my findings concluded that Tesco should remove any 
interest and charges from the loan. This means that Mr W would only be paying back the 
principle sum owed. This means that Tesco wouldnt be making a profit from the loan, only 
getting the money back that it sent to him.
Tescos response
Tesco has reiterated a number of points itd already raised with our service prior to the 
issuing of my provisional findings. But there are some additional points that Id like to 
address.
Tesco says that its not aware of any way that it can verify a customers employment status 
or purpose for the loan. But this wasnt specifically highlighted as an expectation in the 
findings I issued.  My findings set out that the affordability assessment wasnt proportionate 
to the amount, term and repayments of the loanall of which were substantial. 
As Ive already highlighted, some of the information relied upon was either taken at face 
value from the application or cross referenced using electronic bureau data rather than 
verified. I think it would have been prudent to take additional steps to verify the information 
provided given the above factors. Had proportionate checks been carried out here, its clear 
that Mr W wouldnt have been approved the loan.
Tesco has also pointed out in its response that it would be impractical to verify all of a 
customers information on every application. But Ive not said that it should do this in every 
application. To the contrary, carrying out the same checks in every case isnt proportionate.
I remain of the opinion that proportionate checks werent carried out here. And I think had 
they been done, it would have been clear to Tesco that Mr W couldnt afford the loan 
repayments.
Putting things right
As recommended in my provisional decision, Tesco should refund Mr W any interest and 
charges hes already paid on the account. It should also remove any remaining interest and 
charges and reporting of the debt to Mr Ws credit report.
Mr W will however be required to repay the principle sum loaned to him. Mr W can contact 
Tesco to arrange how best to pay this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC and direct it to:
Refund all interest, fees and charges Mr W has paid on the loan adding 8% simple 
annual interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove all outstanding interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Remove any adverse reporting of the debt from Mr Ws credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman