DRN-2673968
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer, should accept responsibility for 
the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a policy Mrs B took out with a store card in April 1994. It was added 
to her account when she applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Mrs B mainly said that she was offered the store card as a way of obtaining discount on 
goods she was purchasing but there was no mention of PPI and it was added without her 
knowledge or consent.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and she has asked for a review. So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
What Mrs B says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to 
look at all the information available and decide what I think is most likely.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Bs store card application. Mrs B has ticked in the PPI part 
of the form, next to where it says Yes, I want my Account covered with Payment Protection 
plus 12 months Purchase Cover. There was a No option next to this which Mrs B couldve 
ticked instead to say that she didnt require protection  this has been left blank. So, 
although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs B to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mrs B signed the completed application so it seems to me that she must have agreed with the 
information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, she has forgotten this now. 
On balance, I think Mrs B was aware she was signing up for PPI, she understood the policy 
was optional and it was added to her account when she indicated that she wanted to take it 
out. 
AXA shouldve given Mrs B enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for her. 
Its possible some information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs B wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
The policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs B was off work sick or if Mrs B lost her 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. (It also offered other cover which was limited to the 
first 12 months but Im concentrating in my decision on the PPI part of the policy. So I have 
ignored this extra benefit when deciding whether to uphold the complaint that PPI was mis-
sold).
In the event of a successful claim, the policy couldve cleared her card balance if Mrs B 
wasnt able to go back to work. Mrs B hasnt mentioned having any significant other means 
she couldve relied on if she wasnt working  she told us that at that time she was able to 
rely on friends and family if she wasnt able to work. But thats not as dependable as taking 
out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mrs Bs circumstances later changed  when she moved jobs later on she had sick pay 
benefits from her new employer. She also received a lump sum payment from a redundancy 
settlement in 1999 which gave her some savings to fall back on. 
But at the time, in 1994, with no other dependable means to rely on if she wasnt able to 
work, I think Mrs B couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim. 
It doesnt look as if Mrs B was affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont 
think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mrs B 
off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs B clear enough information about the costs of the 
policy. But Mrs B chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. 
And as it was a policy that she paid for each month, she couldve cancelled this at any time 
(at no cost) if she had decided she no longer wanted to pay to keep it running. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs B, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy. 
All this means that Mrs B hasnt lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong when it sold 
her this PPI. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account what Mrs B has said about what happened  
on a different complaint which was upheld. 
But each case it looked at on its own merits - her circumstances werent the same in 1994. 
So the outcome on her other complaint makes no difference here. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman