DRN-1247969
The complaint
Ms M says Nationwide Building Society trading as Dunfermline Building Society mis-sold her 
a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms M took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy was not mis-sold for the following reasons.
Ms M completed a separate PPI application form after she had received her mortgage offer. 
So, I think it wouldve been clear to her at the time that the PPI was not compulsory in order 
to get the mortgage. 
Ms M chose the level of benefit under the policy, which at the time of her application was 
£660 per month. Shortly after her mortgage started, she amended this to match her monthly 
mortgage repayment. So, I think she wouldve been aware that time that she could also 
choose the level of benefit under the policy. 
Overall, I think Nationwide made it clear that Ms M didn't have to take out the PPI, and she 
chose to take it out.
Nationwide did not recommend the PPI to Ms M  by which I mean it did not consider her 
personal circumstances and advise her to take the policy. So, it didn't have to check if it was 
right for her. I appreciate Ms M will disagree with this point, and it may reassure her to know 
the PPI doesn't appear to have been unsuitable for her. So, regardless of whether 
Nationwide advised her to take the PPI, this wouldn't have made any difference to the 
outcome of her complaint. 
Nationwide did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for her. Its possible the information Nationwide gave Ms M about the PPI was not 
as clear as it shouldve been  for example its not clear that she was told how much it 
would cost before she decided to buy it. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it doesn't look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. So, it would have been useful for her if something went wrong - stopping her from falling behind with mortgage repayments and potentially losing her home. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. 
I appreciate that Ms M had some benefits through her work. But shed have been aware of 
those at the time she chose to take the PPI. That may be why she reduced the benefit to just 
cover her mortgage repayments rather than more of her income as was initially requested. 
So, I dont think better information about the policy wouldve led to her deciding not to take it. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because Nationwide got 
a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Ms M about that. Because Nationwide didn't tell Ms M, that was unfair.  To 
put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said - including what she said about being unhappy 
that it was cancelled by the insurer before the mortgage was paid off. If anything, that 
suggests she did want the PPI to continue covering her, rather than supporting her argument 
that it was initially mis-sold. So, this point doesn't change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society trading as Dunfermline 
Building Society does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Nationwide Building Society trading as Dunfermline Building Society does have to pay 
back to Ms M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman