DRN-3484127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy because esure Services Limited (esure) didnt change their 
address correctly on their home insurance policy. The home insurance policy is administered 
by esure, their point of contact for any claims, but underwritten by a separate company (the 
insurer). The policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr B throughout.
What happened
When Mr B made a claim under his policy for a burst water pipe, his insurer told him he 
didnt have home emergency cover. It became apparent that esure had incorrectly recorded 
his address, which was why the insurer couldnt see any evidence of cover for Mr B.
His claim became problematic because of esures mistake. Mr B was on the phone with his 
insurer for longer than necessary and he arranged and paid for a partial repair himself. Mr B 
complained to esure.
esure acknowledged its mistake and paid Mr B £30 compensation by way of apology, but he 
didnt think it went far enough. esure said it then paid a further £100.
Our investigator said the compensation of £130 for esures mistake was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances, so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree. He said esure had only paid him £30 compensation, and he remained 
unhappy because esure was misleading him about policy responsibilities.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending not to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. While this is the same outcome our 
investigator proposed, I think its fair to allow each party a final opportunity to comment 
before I reach my final decision. Thats because of the confusion Mr B experienced 
regarding which business was responsible for each part of his complaint. Ill explain.
Mr B complained to esure about the handling of his home emergency claim. But, esure was 
only one party to the policy. esure was the policy administrator for the buildings insurance, 
so it handled the administration side of the policy and was the name Mr B wouldve 
associated with his overall insurance. However, the policy was underwritten by a different 
business (the insurer), which was responsible for claims decisions.
Further to this, the home emergency element of the policy was underwritten by yet another 
insurer, and administered by a different company. I realise this sounds confusing but, 
ordinarily, a policyholder would only really deal with the administrator. 
Here, Mr Bs complaint is that esure, the home insurance administrator, failed to process his 
address update correctly. That meant the home emergency insurer couldnt find a policy for 
his address when he raised a claim.
esure acknowledged that it made a mistake, causing Mr B inconvenience. It paid him £30 by 
way of apology, later paying a further £100. The timeline of events shows that esure updated 
the records straight away, and contacted the home emergency insurer so the claim could be 
processed. 
Ive thought about what wouldve happened if esure had correctly updated Mr Bs address. 
The policy provides for a repair, or reimbursement if Mr B arranged the repair. As he 
arranged the repair himself, its likely the policy would reimburse the emergency repair cost 
in line with the terms and conditions. Therefore, esures mistake caused Mr B a delay of one 
day, which was when his own contractor completed a partial repair. Thinking about the 
compensation esure paid, £130 is reasonable for a days delay. Therefore, Im minded not to 
ask esure to increase its payment.
Mr B says esure didnt pay him the additional £100. esure said it did. Without proof to 
support one party or the other, its difficult to reach a firm decision on this. But, my 
provisional decision is based on the assumption that esure has paid the additional £100 
which appears in its account notes. If either party can show thats not the case, then Id 
expect esure to make that payment now.
Finally, Mr B said esure misled him about responsibilities under the policy. esure disagrees. 
As Ive explained above, ordinarily a policyholder would only deal directly with the 
administrator, often the brand name of the policy, so responsibilities beyond that would be 
unimportant in the day to day workings of the policy. These different responsibilities are 
available in the policy documents, so I cant reasonably say esure misled Mr B. The matter 
became confused here simply because Mr Bs complaint involved three parties to the policy 
and this service must address each complaint separately with the correct party. Im satisfied 
that theres nothing for esure to put right here.
In summary, esure made a mistake with the administration of Mr Bs policy which caused 
him to experience some difficulty raising a home emergency claim. But Im satisfied that its 
offer of £130 to compensate for the inconvenience it caused is enough, and I dont plan to 
ask esure to do any more.   
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
esure had nothing further to add.
Mr B responded to say he didnt receive £130 compensation  he only received £30.  He 
also disagreed that esure hadnt misled him regarding responsibilities for various parts of the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr B still complains that esure misled him about roles and responsibilities of the companies 
party to his policy. Ive looked again at the policy and Im satisfied that esure didnt mislead 
him. As Ive said, I understand it appears confusing, but the policy document does explain 
which business is responsible for each part of the policy. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest esure did anything wrong, here.Compensation
Mr B says he only received £30 compensation from esure, and he doesnt think its fair that 
he should provide evidence that he didnt receive the additional £100 compensation 
payment. 
Ive looked again at the evidence provided and I can see that esure told Mr B on 5 April 2021 
that it had paid him £30 in recognition of its failure to update his address correctly. Mr B 
confirms he received that payment.
In its final letter dated 16 April 2021, esure confirmed a further £100 would be paid to the 
same payment method as Mr Bs last policy payment. The letter confirmed that would show 
in Mr Bs bank account within a few working days.
The payment of £100 made by the home emergency insurer, was confirmed on 7 April 2021. 
The insurer said it would raise the payment and it would show in Mr Bs bank within 10 
working days.
Each of these three payments was made on a different date and the issuing company was 
clearly stated. esures file shows that it made two of those payments. Therefore, I think the 
responsibility now lies with Mr B to check his bank statements for evidence of the £100 
payment going in around the time esure told him it would. If he cant find the payments, he 
may wish to provide esure with copies of his bank statement from 15 April 2021 to the end of 
April 2021 to confirm that its payment didnt go into his account. In the event that the 
payment didnt reach his account, Id expect esure to make the payment again as my final 
decision is based on the understanding that it compensated Mr B for the shortfalls in service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman