DRN-3703470
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the actions of Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) after he reported hed 
been the victim of a scam.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr I made a payment to a travel agency based abroad for two flight 
tickets. Mr I made the payment using his debit card. However, after the payment left Mr Is 
account, he received no further contact from the travel agency and he did not receive his 
booking confirmation or any further details about the flights. 
Mr I tried to get in touch with the travel agency in numerous ways. He emailed them, tried to 
contact them by telephone and also contacted them on social media but he didnt receive a 
response. Having not received any further details from the company or his flight ticket 
confirmation, Mr I rebooked the flights with another company. 
Thinking he must have been the victim of a scam, Mr I then contacted Barclays to let them 
know what had happened and to request his money back. Barclays raised a chargeback on 
Mr Is behalf. However, the travel agency declined the claim and provided evidence to show 
that the flights had been booked. The travel agency said that even if Mr I had not used the 
flights, they were non-refundable. 
The evidence from the travel agency showed all of the information that Mr I had entered in 
order to book the flights  including his address and contact details. The travel agency was 
also able to confirm which airlines the flights were booked with and the relevant flight 
numbers. However, the email address used to book the flights is different to the one Mr I 
has said he uses and is different to the one he has been using to contact this service. The 
email address used to book the flights ends in .com whereas Mr Is ends in .co.uk.
Barclays said that as the travel agency was able to provide it with compelling evidence that 
the requested service had been provided i.e. the flights booked, it wouldnt look to pursue 
the travel agency further under the chargeback scheme. And it said there was nothing 
further it could do to help Mr I get a refund of the amount he had lost. 
Mr I was unhappy with Barclays response, and so he brought his complaint to this service 
and one of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. He said it appeared that the travel agency 
Mr I had ben dealing with was a legitimate company and so he didnt think Mr I had been 
the victim of a scam. Regardless, he went on to say that Barclays had followed the correct 
process and it was right to raise a chargeback on Mr Is behalf. He was also satisfied that 
the chargeback claim was properly pursued by Barclays - but this didnt guarantee a refund 
of the funds. The travel agency had declined to offer Mr I a refund via the chargeback 
scheme and based on the reasons it had provided, he didnt think Barclays had acted 
unreasonably in deciding not to challenge the decision further. 
Mr I was unhappy with the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as those reached by our investigator  
for the same reasons. And I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why in more detail 
below.
It appears that Mr I has been treated poorly by the travel agency that he used to purchase 
his flight tickets and he has my complete sympathy. I understand that he believes he has 
been the victim of a scam. However, even if I were to be persuaded that Mr I had been the 
victim of a scam, which Im not, it doesnt automatically mean that he now qualifies for a 
refund from his bank, in this case, Barclays. 
Im satisfied that Mr I authorised the transaction himself. So, the relevant rules that are 
applicable here make him liable for the transaction at first instance. However, good industry 
practice requires Barclays to be mindful of the risk of fraud and to be on the lookout for 
potentially suspicious transactions. In certain circumstances, Barclays might be expected to 
question a payment(s) with its customer before allowing it to be processed. However, Im not 
persuaded that this is what Barclays needed to do here  the payment in question was for 
relatively small amount and was being made to a well-established company. It wouldnt have 
looked particularly suspicious or unusual to Barclays. And so I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong by not intervening when the transaction was processed at Mr Is request. 
When Barclays were notified of what had happened to Mr I, it initiated the chargeback 
process. This option is available in a range of circumstances where there's a dispute 
between a cardholder (in this case Mr I) and a merchant (in this case, the travel agency he 
had used to purchase the tickets). There's no automatic right to a chargeback. But as a 
general rule, we say it's fair to expect a card issuer to attempt a chargeback if there's a 
reasonable prospect that it will succeed. 
In order to raise a chargeback, Barclays needed to cite one of the specific reasons set out in 
the scheme rules. The rules do provide for raising a dispute where someone has paid for a 
service that hasnt been provided. However, the travel agency responded to the chargeback 
setting out that flights had indeed been purchased on Mr Is behalf and it provided Barclays 
with the details of the flights that had been booked in Mr Is name. Given the information that 
was provided by the travel agent, Barclays felt that it was therefore unlikely that the 
chargeback would be successful under the chargeback rules. And I dont think Barclays 
acted unreasonably by not pursuing the chargeback further  it appears to have had no 
reasonable prospect of success. 
Finally, having reviewed everything sent to me by both parties, Im not persuaded that Mr I 
has been the victim of a scam. It seems to me that the travel agency did book the flights Mr I 
required but that the flight details/confirmation were sent to an incorrect email address and 
therefore Mr I did not receive confirmation of his flight details. When he tried to chase this 
up, it appears he met with a wall of silence. But poor customer service doesnt mean that he 
is now due a refund from his bank or that he has been the victim of a scam. Barclays 
followed the correct process in raising the chargeback on his behalf and I dont think it was unreasonable that it declined to pursue this further given the information that the travel agent 
was able to provide. 
There has been lots of back and forth between our investigator and Mr I about whether he 
has been the victim of a scam or not and Mr I has sent in lots of information that shows 
others have been treated poorly by the same travel agent. As Ive said, I am not persuaded 
that Mr I has been the victim of a scam. But even if I were to be satisfied that this was a 
scam from the outset, this still wouldnt result in the outcome Mr I wants. I say this because 
even if I were to assess Barclays actions against the relevant regulations, I still dont think 
this would result in Mr Is case being upheld for the reasons Ive set out above. 
I fully recognise the strength of feeling Mr I has regarding this case. Thats understandable 
given that hes been treated poorly by the travel agent he decided to use. But whilst Im sorry 
to have to disappoint him, Im not persuaded that Barclays has done anything wrong here 
and so I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank 
UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman