DRN-2468945
The complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as 
Skoda Financial Services, didnt tell him they were terminating his finance agreement and 
didnt have a right to.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of Mr Ws finance agreement with VWFS allowed them to:
terminate the hiring by giving you written notice if any of the following happens:
You fail to pay any rental, maintenance charge or other payment under this agreement
by the time it is due. 
Mr W had failed to make payments in October and December 2018 and in December 2019. 
VWFS were therefore within their contractual rights to terminate the agreement.
However, we wouldnt expect them to do that immediately and wed usually expect a 
business to follow the guidance produced by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
That says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then a 
default may be registered. 
Mr Ws statement of account demonstrates that by December 2019 his account was three 
months in arrears. I understand he disputes whether the account was three months in 
arrears on the actual date the notice of default was issued but I think its likely when the 
letter was generated it was, and I think it was reasonable for the business to send the notice 
of default on the date it did. 
Mr W says he didnt receive the letters VWFS sent advising him of the default or the arrears 
on the account, but Im persuaded on the balance of probability that VWFS did send them 
and to the correct address.
I say that because I can see Mr W did receive letters from VWFS in August 2018 when there 
was a dispute over missed payments. Those letters were sent to the same address VWFS 
sent the notice of default, termination letter, and several arrears letters to. It is also the 
address we have for Mr W.
VWFS needed to issue a default notice before they could become entitled to terminate the 
agreement or recover the goods. Ive had a look at the default notice and can see that it was 
compliant with the relevant legislation. It explained what Mr W needed to do to remedy the 
breach of contract and set out the amount to be paid and the date by which that payment 
needed to be made. 
The default notice needed to give Mr W not less than 14 days to bring his account up to 
date. It was issued on 9 December 2019 and gave Mr W until 28 December 2019 to make 
the payment. So, I think sufficient notice was given.
I therefore dont think there is sufficient evidence that VWFS have done anything wrong 
when terminating Mr Ws agreement and seeking to repossess the car. Im therefore not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman