DRN-3244859
The complaint
Mr H has complained that he was mis-sold an income protection policy by Bank of Scotland 
plc in 1995. He says that he wasnt told the policy was optional, he didnt have the 
opportunity to take independent advice and the policy exclusions werent explained to him. 
Mr H further says the policy was anyway unsuitable as it wouldnt have covered his 
mortgage repayments in the event of a claim.
What happened
Mr H was sold two income protection policies when he took out a mortgage. This complaint 
concerns the Safeguard policy only which would have paid a benefit of £500 (increasing in 
line with the retail price index each year) per calendar month after a waiting period of 52 
weeks. The policy was cancelled in 2011.
Our investigator didnt find that the policy had been mis-sold. Mr H appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the passage of time Bank of Scotland are not able to locate the original sales 
documentation from 1995. However I have seen the personal report that was prepared by 
the advisor at the time of the sale.
The report makes recommendations based on the conversation Mr H had with the advisor 
and the details he gave. Its clear that these are recommendations only and for Mr H to 
accept if he wished to by signing and returning the form. There is nothing in the report to 
suggest that this policy was a requirement. It follows that I cant conclude on the evidence 
before me that Mr H was told that the policy wasnt optional. 
Mr H is concerned that the policy wasnt suitable for him because the monthly benefit of 
£500 wouldnt have covered his mortgage after taxation. Nevertheless in the application form 
Mr H said he required a monthly benefit of £500 after the 52 week deferred period. So I dont 
find that the advisor erred in recommending a policy that met his stated requirement. 
Likewise it would have been open to Mr H to not proceed with this policy and take advice 
elsewhere if he preferred. 
Mr H has complained too that the documentation he has does not mention the levels of 
commission being applied to the sale of the product. Again due to the time that has elapsed 
since the policy was taken out in 1995, and despite making further enquiries, no information 
about commission is available. Im therefore not able to say whether commission was 
applied or not. I do understand Mr Hs concern that if an unfair relationship existed when he 
was sold another policy at the same time it must have existed here too. But when 
considering whether an unfair relationship may have existed consideration would need to be 
given to the amount of any commission that would have been paid. And as I have explained, 
Ive not been provided with anything to indicate that commission was paid in relation to this 
policy, or therefore what the amount was. Based on the limited information I have I don't find 
there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a court would conclude there was an unfair 
relationship in relation to the sale of the Safeguard policy. 
I recognise that Mr H will be disappointed by my decision but in all the circumstances I dont 
find that the policy was mis-sold to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman