DRN-4080399
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited stopped paying her 
income protection claim.
What happened
Mrs H became absent from work in 2018. Legal and General accepted a claim she made on 
her employers income protection policy. 
In 2022 the claim was reviewed and Legal and General arranged for an independent medical 
examination (IME). Following the IME report Legal and General stopped paying a benefit to 
Mrs H. She appealed the decision but Legal and General maintained their decision to 
decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought that Legal and General had fairly relied on the contents of the IME report. 
Mrs H didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, she says 
that the report didnt accurately reflect her capabilities and the medical evidence had been 
overlooked. She also highlighted that she wasnt made aware of the decision to decline the 
claim until shortly before the payments were stopped. These points didnt change our 
investigators thoughts about the outcome of the complaint. So, the case has been referred 
to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General have a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. Legal and General had accepted the claim, so they 
need to demonstrate their decision to stop paying the claim was fair.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to rely on the opinion of the 
medical expert to inform their decision to decline the claim. They sought expert 
guidance and relied on the conclusions which said, in summary, that Mrs Hs physical 
and cognitive functional capabilities were not a barrier to her returning to work. 
Mrs H has highlighted some information in the report that she doesnt agree with. 
Even if I accepted there were some inaccuracies in the report, I think they were 
minor. And, I dont think it detracts from the report, which is detailed and persuasive 
about her functional capability to work. The IME took into account Mrs Hs role, her 
functionality and other information Mrs H provided. So, I dont think its unreasonable 
for Legal and General to rely on it.
I appreciate Mrs Hs condition can change and her capability is variable. Ive also 
thought about the other medical evidence shes provided. But, the other evidence 
shes provided doesnt give a significant insight into her functional capability to work. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs H wasnt notified of the decision to stop paying the 
claim as early as she should have been. It seems this was due to an issue with 
sending emails to her employer. But she did know about the decision before 
payments were stopped. And, despite her appeal, there has been no compelling 
evidence that the decision to stop making payments was unfair. So, this doesnt 
change my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint.     
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman