DRN-3753641
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Arrow Global Limited unfairly terminated her credit card account and 
recorded a default on her credit file. 
What happened
In September 2019 Arrow acquired a credit card debt in Mrs Os name from a business Ill 
call V. Arrow appointed another business, N, to arrange repayment with Mrs O. 
Mrs O reached an agreement with N and made monthly payments by standing order. But in 
December 2021 the payments stopped. On 15 April 2022 Arrow sent Mrs O a letter that 
explained it was giving notice of its intention to terminate the credit agreement on 23 June 
2022. Arrows letter said Mrs O needed to pay off the outstanding balance in full to avoid a 
default being recorded on her credit file. Arrows letter also said it was terminating Mrs Os 
credit card agreement in line with its terms. 
Mrs O contacted Arrow and asked for a copy of her credit agreement with V. Arrow says it 
contacted V and asked it to supply a copy. Mrs O also raised concerns with Arrow about the 
nature of its letter and whether it would default her account. Mrs O went on to make a 
payment to cover those previously missed and wanted to reset the previous arrangement. 
Arrow didnt agree to set up a new arrangement or reconsider its decision to terminate the 
account. A default was registered on Mrs Os credit file in June 2022. 
Mrs O complained but Arrow didnt agree it had acted unfairly. However, Arrow said it would 
backdate the default to March 2020, six months after it acquired Mrs Os account. 
An investigator at this service upheld Mrs Os complaint. They didnt think the letter Arrow 
sent on 15 April 2022 was a default notice and said it should remove its record from Mrs Os 
credit file. The investigator also asked Arrow to pay Mrs O £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Arrow didnt agree and asked to appeal. Arrow said its letter dated 
15 April 2022 allowed it to record a default on Mrs Os credit file. As Arrow asked to appeal, 
Mrs Os complaint has been sent to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator and Arrow have both made technical arguments concerning whether the 15 
April 2022 letter is a proper default notice or not. And Arrows given us details of how it 
interprets the relevant rules. Ive looked at Section 88 of the Consumer Credit Act which sets 
out what information a default notice has to include. The first point noted is that a default 
notice must specify the nature of an alleged breach. I note Arrows letter dated 15 April 2022 
contains no allegation of an alleged breach of the credit agreement. Instead, Arrows letter 
includes notice that it intended to terminate the credit card under the terms of its credit 
agreement. Im not persuaded Arrows letter fairly gave notice of its intention to default the 
credit card. 
I note the letter caused Mrs O to contact Arrow and ask questions about her account and for 
a copy of the original credit agreement. Given Arrow was seeking to terminate the credit card 
on the basis of the provisions of the terms within that credit agreement, I agree with Mrs O it 
was important for her to see a copy. Im surprised Arrow didnt simply forward a copy to Mrs 
O, instead it chose to request a copy from V. Arrow cited the relevant condition with its terms 
in its letter of 15 April 2022, so it stands to reason it had a copy of Mrs Os credit agreement 
available. 
Whilst I accept the credit agreement allowed arrow to terminate the credit card by giving two 
months notice, I havent been persuaded it acted fairly by recording a default.  
Mrs O has forwarded evidence that shows she couldve cleared the balance in June 2022, 
before the default was applied. So I think the fairest approach offer Mrs O the chance to 
make a payment to clear the balance. If Mrs O makes a payment to clear the default balance 
in full within four weeks of settlement, Arrow will need to remove the default from her credit 
file and mark the account as settled. 
I agree with the investigator that £100 fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs O, so Im going to proceed on that basis.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Os complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- If Mrs O makes a payment to clear the default balance within four weeks of 
acceptance, remove the default reported on her credit file and mark account as 
settled
- Pay Mrs O £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman