DRN-3274005
The complaint
Mrs M complains that due to failings by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
(HL) she was unable to place trades in her Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) on its platform. Mrs M says she has lost out financially as, on several occasions, she 
wasnt able to trade.
Mrs M is represented in this matter by Mr M.
What happened
I understand that Mrs Ms complaint relates to two separate incidents when she was unable 
to trade:
- On 9 November 2020 Mrs M tried to sell stocks, but Mrs M says HLs platform froze. 
Mrs M says she was able to sell the stock the following day, but the price she 
achieved was lower than it had been on the previous day.
- Mrs M held shares in Sellas Life Sciences (SLS), a NASDAQ listed stock. On 10 
December 2020 she tried to sell her holding online but was unable to get a live price. 
Mrs M says she also tried to call HL to place the trade but was unable to get through. 
The following day Mr M, on Mrs Ms behalf, called and emailed HL and says he was, 
eventually, able to sell the stock. However, by the time he was able to trade, Mr M 
says the price had fallen significantly.
To put things right Mrs M wants HL to compensate her for the losses she has suffered as a 
result of being unable to trade promptly.
Background 
Mr M complained to HL about the problems Mrs M had experienced. It apologised for the 
inconvenience Mrs M had suffered but it said its terms and conditions set out that it did not 
guarantee that its platform would always be available and without any delay. It also 
explained that the lack of a live price for the SLS stock wasnt something it could control.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with HLs response and Mr M referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues raised but said she didnt think Mrs Ms complaint 
should be upheld.
She noted that on 9 November 2020 (following the US Presidential election results and an 
announcement on the first Covid-19 vaccine), market volumes were much higher than usual. 
HL explained that its platform had received very high volumes of traffic, as more clients than 
usual were accessing the site and placing trades. This increased demand meant that some 
clients had difficulty accessing their accounts. HL also said it had experienced issues with 
the live pricing displayed on its website and this impacted customers ability to place trades 
online.
But it referred to its Terms of Use document. Section 10 set out:
We do not guarantee that our website (or any of the content on it) will always be available or 
uninterrupted, and we cannot guarantee that access to the website will be available at all 
time without delay.
Occasionally, we may need to suspend the provision of our website and online services to 
maintain or upgrade our systems. We will not be liable to you if our systems or services are 
unavailable to you for trading or information purposes for whatever reason.
Our investigator said she accepted that HL was required to have sufficiently robust systems 
in place to withstand high demand. But, as HLs terms and conditions set out, this wasnt 
something it could guarantee at all times and in all market conditions.
In view of the surge in demand on HLs platform on 9 November 2020 she said she didnt 
think it was unreasonable for it to say that its platform had struggled to cope with the 
demand. And as its terms and conditions clearly set out that it could not guarantee access to 
its site at all times, without delay, she said she was satisfied that HL had acted within the 
terms of the account.
SLS
I understand that Mrs M wanted to sell her SLS stock as the price spiked higher shortly after 
she had bought it. Mr M says he spent several hours trying to sell the shares online and he 
also telephoned HL to place the trade but couldnt get through until the next day. By this time 
the stock price had fallen. Mr M says Mrs M suffered a loss as she wasnt able to sell the 
stock promptly.
Our investigator noted that Mrs M was unable to place the trade and received an error 
message saying no live prices were available. She explained that this was because no 
quotes were available from HLs panel of market makers. She said this wasnt due to a 
problem with HLs platform, but because its market counterparties were not making 
electronic quotes available at the times Mr M was attempting to trade. HL said this was due 
to volatile market conditions in the stock, rather than any system issues. In view of this our 
investigator said she was satisfied that HL wasnt responsible for the problems Mrs M 
experienced when she tried to sell her SLS holding.
She noted Mr M had previously placed fill or kill orders on Mrs Ms behalf. But she said that, 
in-line with HLs Order Handling Policy as the orders could not be filled, they were cancelled. 
As this was the case, she said she didnt think it had acted incorrectly when it cancelled the 
orders as it was not able to fulfil them.
Mr M, on behalf of Mrs M did not accept our investigators view. He said he couldnt 
understand how she could say HL was not at fault as he felt the evidence was 
overwhelming. He said he didnt think it was fair for HL to pass the blame to a third party 
and he said he had not experienced similar problems with another trading platform he uses.
He said he felt the service HL had provided had been unreliable and it should have been 
able to cope with high demand. He said he felt this was particularly the case as HL charged 
a lot for its service. Mr M said it was particularly worrying and frustrating that when he 
experienced problems with the platform, he couldnt get through to speak to anyone at HL.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mrs Ms position and I have very carefully considered all the points Mr M 
has made on her behalf.
Having done so, although I do understand Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling on this matter I 
cant reasonably require HL to compensate Mrs M for any losses she may have suffered as 
a result of being unable to place the trades she wanted at the time she wanted. Ill explain 
why.
9 November 2020
As our investigator explained, trading volumes were much higher than usual on Monday 9 
November 2020 as many investors adjusted their holdings in light of the US Presidential 
election and the positive news about the first Covid-19 vaccine trial. 
I appreciate it must have been very frustrating for Mrs M not to have been able to trade.
As HL has explained, it invests heavily in its online services. But it would be unreasonable 
for me to expect HL to have the infrastructure in place to cope with such an unusually high 
demand from its users. It wouldnt necessarily be commercially practicable given the 
uniqueness of the situation which led to such a high volume of investors wanting to access 
its service.
I must also take into account that this scenario is covered in HLs terms of service and it 
clearly set out that it couldnt guarantee that access to, or trading in, accounts would always 
be available or be available without delay. It said that it, 
 cannot guarantee that access to, or trading in, your Accounts via the HL Website, HL 
Mobile Application, by telephone or by post will be available at all times or without delay. You 
acknowledge that the HL Service may be interrupted and the services available may be 
variable in certain circumstances.
In view of this, I cant reasonably say that the interruption to HLs service was unreasonable 
in the unprecedented circumstances.
Trading SLS stock 
As our investigator explained, the problems Mrs M experienced when she tried to sell her 
SLS stock were not due to any problems with HLs platform. It was not possible for Mrs M to 
sell the stock when she wanted to because the market makers on HLs panel were not 
returning quotes for the trade Mrs M wanted to place. This was not due to a systems issue 
with HLs platform. HL is a broker, not a market maker, and cannot require a market maker 
to return a quote for a particular trade.
I do understand Mrs Ms frustration at not being able to trade when the stock price spiked 
higher, but HL couldnt require the market makers on its panel to provide a quote. I can see 
that the stock price was particularly volatile when Mr M was trying to place the trade on 
Mrs Ms behalf, and it appears this is why market makers were not willing to return quotes at 
that time.
I note Mr M has said he uses an app which shows live prices, so he felt the prices would 
have been available to HL. But as I have explained, market makers arent obliged to provide 
a quote. Likewise, when Mr M placed fill or kill orders on Mrs Ms behalf these werent fulfilled 
because the price set wasnt available at that time. I do understand Mr Ms frustration, but I 
am satisfied that the orders were cancelled in line with HLs Order Handling Policy.
Having very carefully considered the points Mr M has raised on Mrs Ms behalf I cant 
reasonably find that HL has acted incorrectly. As this is the case, I cannot uphold this 
complaint. I have also considered the problems Mr M had contacting HL by phone, but Im 
satisfied the terms of the trading account clearly set out the limitations of the service it can 
provide. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman