DRN-4067579
The complaint
Mr B complains that Motability Operations Limited mishandled an insurance claim when the 
car he had hired from it was stolen. Mr D says this has caused him significant distress, 
inconvenience and financial loss.
What happened
Due to health conditions Mr B was entitled to receive an award of Personal Independence 
Payment (PIP) with the mobility component and so was able to join the Motability scheme. 
He entered into a three-year hire agreement with Motability Operations for a car in 
September 2019. 
In March 2022 Mr B was hospitalised as a medical emergency and on the same day, 
unbeknown to him, the car was stolen. He remained in hospital for around a month.
Two days after the car had been stolen, the Irish Police sent a data protection request to the 
Motability Scheme and Customer Protection Team.  This request set out that the car and 
driver had been stopped trying to enter the Republic of Ireland, that the car registration 
number did not relate to the chassis number on the engine, and that because of this, it asked 
for the correct registration number for the car. The police also asked that this information 
was provided as a matter of urgency as a male was being held in custody having been 
detained.
Around nine days after the theft Mr B became aware his car had been stolen and reported it 
to the police and to Mobility Operations. Motability Operations advised Mr B to inform the 
insurance company and raise a claim. 
The insurers were unable to locate the car within three weeks from the claim being opened 
and so in line with its policy, declared the car to be a total loss and passed it on to the 
Special Investigations Team to investigate. In light of this decision Mr Bs hire agreement 
with Motability Operations ceased at the start of April 2022.
The insurers decided they were unable to offer Mr B with a hire car and so offered a taxi 
account with £50 credit. Mr B complained to Motability Operations that the amount was 
insufficient in light of his various upcoming medical appointments, and it provided him with 
£150 taxi account in its place. Motability Operations also reimbursed him the three weeks of 
rentals he had paid while he didnt have the car.
Mr B was concerned about his ability to get around without a car and Motability Operations 
requested an urgent allowance reinstatement from the DWP of the mobility component of his 
PIP. It explained to Mr B that until a decision had been made by the insurer it couldnt allow 
him to enter into a new Motability agreement.
Due to Mr Bs circumstances, he decided to purchase a replacement car. Unfortunately, Mr 
B says the first car he purchased proved unsuitable and the second also had issues. He 
says that he couldnt really afford to replace the car hed had under the Motability scheme 
and that doing so caused him distress, inconvenience and financial loss.
In mid-May 2022 Mr Bs case with the insurers was closed and he later arranged to take out 
a new hire agreement with Motability Operations though there was a wait of several months 
for the car.
Mr B says he later became aware of the contact the Irish police had had with Motability 
Operations two days after the car had been stolen. He complained to Motability Operations 
that as it knew where the car was it should have notified the insurer, and this would have led 
to the car being returned to him rather than it being considered as a total loss. He says the 
police informed him that the car was drivable and without damage.
Mr B said if Motability Operations had passed the information on about the car correctly, he 
wouldnt have had to go to the expense of replacing the car. He says he wasnt adequately 
supported by Motability Operations during the insurance claim.
Motability Operations didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it had investigated the 
contact made to it by the Irish police and that this had been in the form of a request under 
the Data Protection Act (DPA) in March 2022. Motability Operations said it had responded as 
it was legally bound to do so but wouldnt have taken other action because it wasnt a notice 
that the car had impounded and needed collection. It also said that it had received no further 
contact from the police about the car.
Motability Operations said as the insurer hadnt been able to locate the vehicle in 21 days it 
was deemed a total loss as per the terms and conditions and the Special Investigations Unit 
was allocated to investigate. It said at this point it had requested the DWP to reinstate Mr Bs 
PIP mobility allowance to him so that he could use this to cover the cost of travel.
Mr B was unhappy at Motability Operations response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended a partial uphold of Mr Bs complaint. He said that he thought 
the DPA request received from the Irish police had provided sufficient information for 
Motability Operations to be aware that the car had been seized by the police and it should 
have alerted the insurer that there was an issue. If Motability Operations had, our 
investigator said, this may have led to a speedier resolution of Mr Bs claim with the insurer. 
But our investigator said there was no persuasive evidence that the car would have been 
speedily released by the police.
Our investigator said that although Motability Operations had arranged for Mr Bs allowance 
to be reinstated and for the reimbursement of the rental payments paid from his allowance 
for the period he had been without the car, this was insufficient in the circumstances. He said 
he thought Motability Operations should pay Mr B an additional £300 as compensation. Our 
investigator said that although much of the distress and inconvenience had been caused to 
Mr B was due to the actual theft of the car, he thought Motability Operations should have 
done more. And that the delay caused by failing to contact the insurers when it had been 
contacted by the police had also caused Mr B distress and inconvenience.
Motability Operations accepted our investigators view, but Mr B disagreed. He said he felt 
the amount of compensation didnt recognise the financial detriment he had suffered from 
not having the car and having to purchase a replacement. He said he hadnt been supported 
by Motability Operations during this time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where information is missing or contradictory then I will decide what I think is the most likely 
thing to have happened.
Ive seen that Mr Bs car was stolen after he was admitted to hospital and so he wasnt 
aware of any problem for several days which was when he was advised by a friend that the 
car couldnt be located. This led to a delay in the insurers being informed and a claim being 
opened. It isnt disputed this delay was no fault of Mr B.
Ive also seen that the Irish police had contacted Motability Operations around two days after 
the car had been stolen. The police had asked for information in a formal data request. But 
this request had provided details about the car being stopped entering the Republic of 
Ireland with false plates. It also said that the driver was currently being held in detention. 
Motability Operations says it provided the requested information but took no further action.
Mr B says that it is this inaction by Motability Operations which led to the car being treated 
as a total loss by the insurers because it couldnt be located. He says that had it told the 
insurers about the Irish polices contact then the car could have been returned to him and 
the agreement continued. Mr B says this would have saved him a lot of distress and 
expense.
I appreciate the data request made by the Irish police had provided sufficient information to 
Motability Operations to have alerted it that there was a serious problem with the car. 
However, I dont think I can reasonably say that had Motability Operations done more the car 
would have been returned to Mr B within a short time. This is because its clear the Irish 
police were investigating an offence and the car was evidence in that investigation, so I cant 
say how long they would have wished to retain it. And Ive also seen that despite Motability 
Operations response to the data information the police have not then made further contact 
as to the car. I havent seen any evidence that the police followed up with a notice to 
Motability Operations that the car was impounded and awaiting collection.
I think in the circumstances that its more likely than not that even if the insurers had opened 
a claim about the theft of the car sooner and been aware from the start of where the car had 
been stopped that the claim would still have been assigned for further investigation. I also 
dont think that even if the location of the car had been known that its likely it would have 
been retrievable within the necessary timescale for it not to have been treated as a total loss. 
So, although the claim would have been closed earlier had Motability Operations acted, I 
dont think I can fairly say this would have resulted in a significantly different outcome in 
respect of the decision about the car and the agreement ending.
I appreciate Mr B feels let down by Motability Operations because he says it didnt assist him 
in keeping mobile. But Ive seen it was the decision of the insurer not to provide a courtesy 
car not of Motability Operations and in those circumstances, I wouldnt expect Motability 
Operations to seek to override this decision. When the car was deemed a total loss then the 
hire agreement with Motability Operations ceased. 
Motability Operations has explained that a new agreement couldnt then be entered into by 
Mr B until the claim had been decided by the insurer. I think that is a fair and reasonable 
approach to take. 
Ive seen that Motability Operations reimbursed Mr Bs the mobility allowance for the three 
weeks he didnt have access to the car after it had been stolen and before the agreement 
was ended. It also made a request for the DWP to reinstate Mr Bs mobility component of his 
PIP going forward so that he could use that to cover his transport costs. In addition, Motability Operations provided Mr B with £150 taxi account.
I can appreciate that due to Mr Bs health having his own transport was important and that 
he felt he had no alternative but to purchase a car to replace the one he had held via the 
Motability Scheme. But I have to separate out the inconvenience and distress that resulted 
from the theft itself from those of the actions of Motability Operations dealing with the 
necessary claim process that then arose. I think its fair to say that the loss of the car was 
due to the theft as was the need to open the insurance claim.
So, although I think Motability Operations should have done more about alerting the insurer 
earlier, I cant reasonably say that all the inconvenience, distress and financial detriment 
suffered by Mr B were the fault of Motability Operations and its actions.
But I do agree with our investigator that compensation for Mr B by Motability Operations for 
not doing more when the DPA request was received is warranted. And, although I know this 
will disappoint Mr B, I think £300 for the inconvenience and distress caused to him for the 
delay in passing the information on to the insurer is fair and reasonable. Im not going to ask 
Motability Operations to reimburse him for the cost of the replacement car/s.
For the reasons give above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Motability Operations Limited to pay Mr B £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not alerting the insurer sooner that there was an issue with who 
had the car and where it was.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Im asking Motability 
Operations Limited to pay Mr B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by not alerting the insurer sooner that there was an issue with who had the car and 
where it was.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman