DRN-2944911
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of some solar panels.
What happened
Mrs K bought solar panels for her home in June 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs K into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Ks complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs K, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.
At first Ikano didnt respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Subsequently, Ikano accepted the adjudicators opinion and made an offer. The adjudicator 
sought clarification of the terms of the offer, but Ikano didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs K was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Ikano didnt treat Mrs K fairly and she lost out because of what Ikano did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ks complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs K from the solar panels 
over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mrs K is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Ikano need to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mrs K in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Ks monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mrs K have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs K and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs K and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs K accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs K first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano must pay 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) must put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman