DRN-3526212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Is complaint is about a claim they made on their Amtrust Europe Limited legal 
expenses insurance policy, which Amtrust declined. 
All references to Amtrust include their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs I submitted a claim to Amtrust under their legal expenses policy 
in relation to a property dispute with their neighbour. Amtrust referred the claim to one of 
their panel solicitors for a legal assessment. 
The solicitors found that whilst some of the issues in relation to nuisance/trespass could 
achieve borderline prospects of success, the information provided suggested these were 
relatively minor so it was likely the legal costs to pursue them would quickly outweigh their 
value. As a result of this Amtrust declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs I complained about this and Amtrusts handling of their claim. Amtrust 
maintained their position in relation to proportionality but felt they could have done more to 
manage expectations in relation to claim for breach of covenant. To put things right they 
offered £150.
Mr and Mrs I referred their concerns to this service. Our investigator looked into it but didnt 
think Amtrust needed to take any further action. As this didnt resolve things, it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Is strength of feeling in relation to this complaint and the time 
theyve invested into it. Whilst I have considered all the information provided by both parties, 
I havent commented on it all. This isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the informal 
nature of our service.
Amtrust have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt decline 
a claim unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of the policy set out what is and isnt covered and form the 
agreement between Mr and Mrs I and Amtrust. The terms say cover is provided for:
advisers costs to pursue a legal action for: nuisance or trespass against the 
person or organisation infringing your legal rights in relation to your main home.
Mr and Mrs Is main concern was in relation to a breach of covenant by their neighbour. 
Whilst the policy doesnt specifically refer to breach of covenant being covered, Amtrust 
have said it would be covered if it occurs at the same time as an insured incident. So if it was 
being pursued at the same time as a nuisance or trespass for example.
The appointed solicitors provided a legal assessment having reviewed all the information Mr 
and Mrs I provided in relation to their claim. Having done so they came to the conclusion that 
there were borderline prospects of success in relation to some elements of the claim for 
nuisance/ trespass but found that it was likely the costs would outweigh the value of the 
claim as in their opinion, the issues were relatively minor.
Amtrust were entitled to rely on this advice to determine if to cover the claim. They are not 
legal experts and they explain in the policy terms and conditions this will happen. It says:
An estimate of the costs to deal with your claim must not be more than the 
amount of money in dispute. The estimate of the costs will be provided with the 
assessment of your case and will be carried out by the independent adviser. If the 
estimate exceeds the amount in dispute, then we may decline or discontinue 
support for your case.
Im aware there hasnt been a specific setting out of costs and so Mr and Mrs I arent clear 
how it could be determined the costs would outweigh the value. The solicitor explained that 
without additional evidence the issues are relatively minor. In terms of the work they could 
provide based on the value of the claim, theyd only be able to send a couple of letters. Apart 
from this they wouldnt be funded to do anything more. So whilst there isnt specific numbers, 
I think theyve explained by way of the example of what they could do for Mr and Mrs I based 
on the case so far given the value of the claim, and its clear it wouldnt be proportionate to 
pursue as it wouldnt be proportionate for any further action such as court proceedings.
A proportionality clause is common in legal expenses insurance policies and I dont consider 
it to be unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to 
bear the cost if advised they will recover less than the amount theyd pay in legal costs. And 
we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
The legal assessment was undertaken by an independent firm of solicitors and the opinion 
was clear and reasoned so it was fair for Amtrust to rely on it.
I understand Mr and Mrs I have concerns the breach of covenant or depreciation in value in 
their house hasnt been explored by the solicitor. However, breach of covenant is only 
covered if pursued at the same time as a claim for nuisance/trespass. As Amtrust have 
declined the claim due to proportionality in relation to these issues, breach of covenant isnt 
something that can be pursued at this time.
Amtrust have left it open to Mr and Mrs I to submit further evidence. I note the legal 
assessment made some suggestions for recording incidences/ evidencing damage to 
support the claims. If this was something Mr and Mrs I have now done, they can provide this 
for a further review to see if it changes anything. This would include any evidence of the 
depreciation in value of their property.
Amtrust advised that Mr and Mrs I could obtain their own legal assessment, if it was 
supportive of their claim they would arrange for a barristers opinion which could lead to the 
claim being met if the barrister also supported their case. I think this is reasonable and is in 
line with what Id expect them to do.Overall, I think Amtrust have declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Amtrusts handling
Amtrust have accepted they shouldve managed Mr and Mrs Is expectations better and 
have offered £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. I appreciate 
there was some confusion over whether a breach of covenant claim was covered under the 
policy. Amtrust could have been clearer with the solicitors about this but they recognised this 
and later provided clarification on the matter. I think this fairly reflects the impact on Mr and 
Mrs I for the lack of service provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that Amtrust Europe Limited should pay Mr and Mrs I £150, if it hasnt 
already done so, for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman