DRN-2984527
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading at the time as 
Legal and General (Fairmead), failed to include various professional fees in the cash 
settlement it paid him following a claim and previous complaint to this service.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2021, explaining that I was intending 
to partially uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
In May 2017 Mr Rs neighbours carried out works to the party wall which separates 
the two properties. This caused damage within Mr Rs property.
Mr R reported this to Fairmead, his home insurance provider. It was established that 
the neighbour had undertaken these works without the required party wall 
agreement. Fairmead accepted Mr Rs claim under the accidental damage section of 
his policy. It also instructed solicitors to start legal proceedings against Mr Rs 
neighbour, for the recovery of its outlay.
Fairmead instructed a loss adjuster and chartered surveyor to assess the claim on its 
behalf. It also approached a firm of consultant engineers for a report on the damage 
and how to repair it. A cash settlement offer was made to Mr R, based on a scope of 
repairs drawn up by Fairmeads chartered surveyor. This was initially disputed as 
Mr R wanted Fairmead to cover the cost of completely rebuilding the wall, rather than 
repairing it. But the offer was accepted following one of our investigators 
assessments on a previous complaint. 
Part of our investigators assessment of the previous complaint was that Fairmead 
should consider covering the cost of additional professional fees  such as the costs 
of a party wall surveyor  should they become necessary.
Mr R brought this complaint to our service around six months after the conclusion of 
the previous complaint. He said he needed Fairmead to cover additional professional 
fees including a party wall agreement, building regulation fees and project 
management costs, as the required remedial works in his view were complex. He 
also provided comments from a local estate agent, and his chartered surveyor, 
stating that his property is likely to suffer a reduction in value, even once the repair 
works have been completed. Mr R wants Fairmead to cover the reduction in the 
value of his property, or to reconsider rebuilding the wall entirely instead of only 
repairing it.
Fairmead stated that the costs for a party wall agreement and building regulation 
sign-off were already built into the cash settlement amount it paid. But it said it 
couldnt provide a breakdown to show this because the rates had been calculated 
within a commercially sensitive business system which couldnt be shared. So, in the 
interest of moving the claim to conclusion, Fairmead offered to pay a further £750 for 
the party wall agreement and an additional £500 for building regulation sign-off.
Our investigator thought this was a fair resolution to Mr Rs complaint. She said 
Fairmead had based its cash settlement on detailed investigations by its experts. She 
didnt think it would be fair to expect Fairmead to cover additional costs for project 
management as this wasnt deemed necessary when the cash settlement was 
calculated, and because Mr R hadnt obtained Fairmeads permission before 
appointing additional parties. She also said that a reduction in the value of the 
property wasnt covered by Mr Rs policy.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has mainly corresponded with our service through a representative. In this 
decision Ill only refer to Mr D by name, even when referencing information or 
arguments supplied by his representative.
Although Fairmead maintains that the costs for building regulation sign-off and a 
party wall agreement were factored into its initial settlement, it has agreed to pay a 
further £1,250 to cover these costs. This means what I need to decide is whether this 
offer is sufficient to deliver a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Rs complaint. 
In addition, Ill need to decide whether Fairmead should cover additional costs for 
rebuilding the wall and/or the potential reduction in the value of Mr Rs property and 
whether it should pay costs for project management while the works are completed. 
Ill address each issue separately.
Building Regulations and Party Wall Agreement
Fairmead says these figures were built into its cash settlement already. But from 
what Ive seen, I dont think this is most likely the case  at least not for the party wall 
costs. I say this because Ive seen emails from around the time of the cash 
settlement which clearly state that Fairmead didnt believe a party wall agreement 
would be needed, but that it would reconsider this should it become necessary. I 
cant see that the cash settlement amount changed following this  in order to 
accommodate these fees.
That said, Fairmead has now agreed to cover these additional costs. And I havent 
seen anything to suggest that the amounts it has offered to add are insufficient. So, 
Im currently of the view that the additional £1,250 offered by Fairmead for these 
costs is fair and reasonable.Mr R has pointed out that if his neighbour doesnt consent to the works, under the 
Party Wall Act 1996, he will be responsible for covering the cost of appointing a party 
wall surveyor to represent his neighbour and potentially a third surveyor who could 
be needed to resolve any dispute. 
As these are potential costs, rather than amounts we know will definitely need to be 
paid, I dont consider it fair to direct Fairmead to pay them upfront. But should Mr R 
be required to appoint additional party wall surveyors, I would expect Fairmead to 
consider whether it is responsible for covering these costs under the term of Mr Rs 
policy.
Works to be completed
Mr R previously complained about the proposed repairs to his property. He 
eventually accepted a cash settlement based on the proposals drawn up by 
Fairmead and its experts. But having now liaised with his own surveyor, Mr R 
remains unhappy that his wall will be repaired rather than rebuilt. He says he should 
be put back in the position he was in before the damage occurred. So, he wants 
Fairmead to cover the cost of rebuilding the wall in its entirety.
I should point out here that, under the terms of the policy, Fairmead should pay the 
cost of any necessary replacement or repair work. This means that if Mr R could 
evidence that the wall could not be effectively repaired, that Fairmead would need to 
consider replacing it by rebuilding it (or covering the cost of doing so).
In this case, Mr R has already accepted a cash settlement for the repair work which 
Fairmead says is required. Prior to agreeing the cash settlement, Fairmead 
instructed several experts to assess the damage and to report on how it could be put 
right. This evidence, and the later report from Mr Rs engineer, all suggest that the 
wall can be effectively repaired using reinforcement ties.
Mr Rs engineer has, however, highlighted that because the wall is a single brick 
thick, the ties cannot be hidden within the wall. Instead they will protrude and need to 
be covered with some boarding.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Rs concern that this repair will not put him back in the 
same position he was in before the damage occurred. It seems all experts agree that 
the proposal will deliver a lasting and effective repair, which means Mr R will be put 
in broadly the same position he was in before the damage as hell have a structurally 
sound party wall. The only difference would be to the aesthetic finish.
For me to decide that it would be fair and reasonable to direct Fairmead to cover the 
cost of replacing the wall in its entirety, Id need to be persuaded that the current 
proposed repairs would cause Mr R some detriment  beyond a slight change to the 
aesthetic appearance of the wall. 
Mr R has argued that in addition to spoiling his feature wall, the proposed repairs will 
result in a reduction to the value of his home. Mr R has provided comments from an 
estate agent in his area which he says supports his view. But having reviewed the 
estate agents comments, it seems to me that his comments about a potential 
reduction in value were based on the detrimental impact of the structural issues 
caused by the works carried out by the neighbour. The estate agent doesnt appear, 
to me, to be suggesting that this potential loss in value would persist once the 
structural issues have been repaired. Mr R has also provided comments from his chartered surveyor who states that even 
once repairs are completed, the value of the property might still be affected. He 
states that a building surveyor undertaking a home buyer survey would likely notice 
the reinforcement ties and the potential buyers and/or their mortgage companies 
perception of this may still impact on the value.
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence and arguments put forward on this point. 
Mr R and his surveyors concerns appear to be about a potential buyer discovering 
the fact that structural repairs have been completed. But in my view, this is 
something that would need to be openly declared whether or not the wall was 
repaired or completely rebuilt. And I think its likely that any impact this might have 
would be more as a result of the fact that the property has suffered from structural 
damage, rather than how this damage was put right. 
Its worth noting here that any reduction in the value of the property, as a result of a 
claim, is specifically excluded under the terms of the policy.
In addition, there are many factors which can impact the price a property might sell 
for at any given time. And ultimately, I havent seen any persuasive evidence to 
suggest that Mr Rs property value would definitely be reduced because of the 
proposed repair works. Any potential reduction in value suggested by Mr R, his 
estate agent and his surveyor are purely theoretical. 
Taking everything into account, Im not currently persuaded that the proposed repairs 
will cause Mr R any detriment. So, it follows that I dont think Fairmead needs to 
increase the settlement it paid to cover the cost of rebuilding the wall, or to pay any 
further amount for the theoretical reduction in the value of the property.
Project management
Mr R says that this is a complex case which has required the involvement of 
numerous experts. He says Fairmeads chartered surveyor told him early on that she 
would personally project manage the claim. He has provided a quote from a firm of 
consultants which included costs for project management, as well as party wall costs 
and lead design costs. Mr R says that its unfair for him to be penalised for accepting 
a cash settlement, so he feels Fairmead ought to cover the reasonable costs of 
project management.
Fairmead says the complexity in this case surrounds the party wall element of the 
claim, not the scope of works or the required repairs. So, it suggests that the party 
wall surveyor, which Mr R says is required, will be able to ensure that the scope of 
works is correctly adhered to by Mr Rs appointed contractor.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence and arguments put forward by both sides. I 
can see that Mr R has been quoted for project management costs by one of the firms 
he approached. But this doesnt confirm that project management is strictly required 
for the works to be completed, just that this particular surveyor provided his costs for 
project management to Mr R. I havent seen any persuasive expert evidence to 
explain why the works at Mr Rs property would require a project manager.Mr R argues that when Fairmead intended to complete the works, one of its agents 
told him that she would personally project manage the works. I asked Fairmead 
about this and it explained that it would not have appointed a project manager but 
rather a contract lead. Fairmead says this would not come at an increased cost. It 
also reiterated that the works required at Mr Rs property do not require a project 
manager.
Fairmead did however accept that the cash settlement paid was likely missing the 
costs for adherence to the CDM regulations (Construction (Design and Management) 
Regulations 2015) and health and safety that is required on all jobs. It says this 
usually amounts to £100 per job. Based on this, Im currently intending to direct 
Fairmead to pay Mr R this additional £100.
In terms of the fees for project management, Im not currently persuaded that the 
works required at Mr Rs property will require a project manager. I say this because 
although the works are structural in nature, I agree that from what Ive seen, they 
dont seem to be particularly complex  based on the scope of works and the cost. I 
agree with Fairmead that the complexity in this case seems to stem from the party 
wall dispute, rather than the repairs to be completed. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to direct 
Fairmead to pay for project management costs. But Ill consider any further evidence 
which is provided in response to this provisional decision, before I reach my final 
decision.
Potential additional costs
Mr R has provided information from his surveyor which suggests that the scope of 
works Fairmead based its cash settlement on wasnt completely developed into a full 
remedial design. Based on this, Mr Rs surveyor suggested that a further engineer 
would need to be involved, to finalise a design, before a new party wall notice could 
be issued or any works could commence.
I note that the costs for the additional engineer were included in the cash settlement 
Fairmead paid.
In my correspondence with Fairmead it has stated that once a further engineer has 
assessed the works required to the wall and produced a final design, its possible that 
they could discover additional works which are required. Fairmead says it discussed 
this with Mr R at the time and confirmed that it is prepared to consider these potential 
additional costs, should additional works be required. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable position to take.
I asked both sides to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision. 
Fairmead confirmed it had nothing further it wanted to add.
Mr R explained that Fairmeads court case against his neighbour was still ongoing and that 
the outcome could impact what works needed to be done at his property. He said a further 
surveyor is to be instructed by the court to assess both properties and the works required. 
He asked that our service hold any further progress on his complaint until this surveyors 
report is completed.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision. I should explain here 
that my decision on this case focuses only on the complaint brought to our service. And 
thats me determining the dispute between Mr R and Fairmead, rather than between 
Fairmead and Mr Rs neighbour. Namely, whether the settlement paid to Mr R by Fairmead 
included all necessary professional fees and whether Fairmead should cover the alleged 
loss of value to Mr Rs home or rebuild the wall in its entirety. This complaint is separate to 
the action being taken by Fairmeads solicitors against Mr Rs neighbour. Im aware that 
matters have moved on. But my decision has only considered matters up to the point of this 
complaint.
In this case, Mr R has already accepted a cash settlement, from Fairmead, for the repairs 
required at his property. And as explained in my provisional decision, this was prepared with 
the input of several experts, who all suggested that the wall could be satisfactorily repaired 
using reinforcement ties. So, based on the information it had at the time, Im satisfied that 
Fairmeads offer to Mr R was fair. 
Should further issues or disputes materialise, as matters continue to progress, Mr R should 
first take these up with Fairmead. Then, if he remains dissatisfied with Fairmeads response, 
he may be able to bring his concerns to our service as a new complaint.
In terms of the issues Im considering under this complaint, I explained in my provisional 
decision why I didnt think it was reasonable to direct Fairmead to cover the cost of 
rebuilding Mr Rs wall in its entirety. I also explained why I didnt think it would be fair for it to 
pay for a theoretical loss of value to Mr Rs property. As no further comments or arguments 
have been provided on these points, my decision remains the same for the reasons outlined 
in my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision, I also explained that I thought Fairmead needed to pay Mr R 
some further professional fees (party wall surveyor, building regulation sign-off and 
CDM/health and safety compliance). I explained that if it later became necessary for Mr R to 
cover the cost of additional party wall surveyors for his neighbour, that Fairmead should 
consider whether those costs would be covered under the terms of Mr Rs policy  at that 
stage. Again, no further evidence, comments or arguments were provided on these points. 
So, for these, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision  and 
for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Rs 
complaint in part.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the following additional costs to Mr R:
£750 for a party wall surveyor
£500 for building regulation signoff
£100 for CDM regulation and health and safety adherence
Fairmead should also be prepared to consider the potential additional costs for further party 
wall surveyors or further works which might be required, should these become due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman