DRN-2217253
The complaint
Mr P complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined part of his 
claim for his dogs treatment.
What happened
Mr P purchased pet insurance for his dog with Red Sands online. When taking out his cover 
Mr P was asked if his dog had been taken to the vet for anything other than routine 
vaccinations. His cover started on 1 January 2020. He was sent the policy documentation 
which included the policy terms and conditions. These confirm that there is no cover for any 
pre-existing condition.
The dog has a long history of problems with his ears which Mr P has said is quite common 
for his breed. The dog also suffers from Addisons disease and has ongoing treatment for 
this.
Between 17 April 2020 and 5 May 2020 Mr Ps dog was taken to the vet several times for 
problems with his skin and ears. Mr P submitted a claim to Red Sands to cover the cost of 
the dogs treatment and medication. This claim was initially declined by Red Sands.
In assessing the claim Red Sands requested copies of the dogs veterinary records. These 
showed that Mr Ps dog had a long history of ear problems, and that hed been treated in 
January 2018, for a suspected interdigital infection on his left foreleg. These conditions 
hadnt been declared when Mr P took out the policy. And had they been, Reds Sands said 
theyd have added exclusions to the policy in respect of treatment relating to the dogs ears 
and skin. So the claim was declined and these exclusions were added to the policy, 
backdated to 1 January 2020.
Mr P complained to Red Sands and provided a letter from his vet, confirming that the skin 
condition his dog was treated for in April 2020, was unrelated to the problem hed had in 
January 2018.  
In light of this further evidence Red Sands reviewed Mr Ps claim. They accepted the skin 
condition his dog was treated for in January 2018, was due to a foreign body in his paw. And 
that in April 2020 hed developed sarcoptic mange, following contact with a fox. So they 
agreed to pay the part of the claim they said was related to treatment of mange, but not for 
the medication used to treat the dogs ears. And they removed the exclusion relating to skin 
conditions from the policy.
While Mr P was happy that Red Sands had accepted his claim, he didnt agree with their 
decision not to pay for the cost of two drugs, Suralan and Epotic. Reds Sand said these had 
been prescribed to treat the dogs ears, so werent covered. But Mr P said theyre drugs 
which can treat a number of conditions, and even though theyd been used in the past to 
treat his dogs ear infections, on this occasion theyd been prescribed to treat mange. Mr P 
raised a further complaint, but Reds Sands maintained his claim for these drugs had been 
correctly declined.
Mr P then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but felt Red 
Sands hadnt done anything wrong. As he was satisfied that the medication they werent 
prepared to cover, was prescribed to treat the dogs ears. And as this was a pre-existing 
condition it wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion, as he maintains that the medication Reds 
Sands wouldnt agree to cover, is used to treat multiple conditions. And even though it had 
previously been prescribed to treat his dogs ears, on this occasion it was prescribed to treat 
mange, so it should be covered by his policy. Mr P also told our investigator that he feels he 
should receive compensation for the way Red Sands had dealt with his claim.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr P took out his policy with Red Sands, in January 2020, he was asked if his dog 
had seen a vet for anything other than routine vaccinations. He didnt declare that his dog 
was having ongoing treatment for Addisons disease, that hed been treated for multiple ear 
infections, or that hed required treatment for an infected paw in January 2018.  
Mr P should have declared the conditions his dog had received treatment for, when taking 
out the policy. Hes said that he didnt intend to claim for any pre-existing condition. But the 
information he was asked to provide, was to allow Red Sands to assess the risk they were 
being asked to take on, and the cover they were prepared to offer. 
So when Red Sands considered his dogs records, after hed submitted his claim in May 
2020, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to initially decline his claim, on the basis that 
these disclosed conditions he hadnt declared, and it appeared his claim was related to 
these pre-existing conditions. 
But once Mr P provided confirmation from his vet, thats his dogs skin condition wasnt 
related to the treatment hed had in January 2018, Red Sands reviewed their decision, and 
agreed to cover most of his claim. So Im not persuaded that Reds Sands treated Mr P 
unfairly when they considered his claim.
What remains in dispute is the cost of two drugs, Suralan and Epotic, which Mr P says on 
this occasion were prescribed to treat his dogs sarcoptic mange, rather than his ears. 
Looking at the dogs veterinary records he attended the vets on 17 April 2020 for an injection 
to treat his Addisons disease. Mr P also collected Suralan and Epotic. This visit to the vet 
was during the first lockdown, and Mr P spoke to a Nurse Practitioner in the car park. During 
this conversation he mentioned that his dogs ears and skin had flared up, and it was 
arranged that the vet would call him to discuss treatment.
He spoke to the vet who prescribed Clavaseptin and Prednidale, which are both used to 
treat skin conditions. Mr P confirmed to the vet that he had Malasab, an antibacterial and 
anti-fungal shampoo at home, and was advised to use this twice a week. He spoke to the vet 
a week later, on 24 April 2020, when he said the dogs ears had improved but his skin 
appeared worse. On this occasion the vet prescribed further Calavaseptin, Apoquel, in place 
of Prednidale, as the dog hadnt been getting on well with this, and MFV Vetpro Healthy 
Skin/Glossy Coat Capsules. On 28 April 2020 Mr P spoke to the vet again and the possibility of sarcoptic mange was 
discussed, as his dog had been in contact with foxes. The vet prescribed Marcobyl and 
Bravecto for the dogs skin condition and told Mr P to continue with the Malasab shampoo 
twice a week. As well as the ongoing problem with his skin, Mr P said the dogs ears had 
flared up again. The vet suggested having ear swaps done, but Mr P said he preferred to 
start the dog on Suralan and Epotic again.
Having considered the dogs veterinary records Im satisfied that he was prescribed Suralan 
and Epotic to treat a ear infection. And as hed suffered from ear infections before Mr P took 
out his policy with Red Sands, this was a pre-existing condition which wasnt covered. So I 
dont think Red Sands did anything wrong in declining to cover the cost of these drugs. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint 
against Reds Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman