DRN-3133806
The complaint
Mr S complains that the two options he has been given for repairing a car he has, via a hire 
purchase agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), are 
unreasonable and unacceptable. He says that other solutions would be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances such as replacing the car or handing it back..
What happened
In March 2018, Mr S entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a new car with 
VWFS and, at the end of the four years, Mr S can either pay the optional final payment of 
around £12,500 and keep the car, or choose to return it.
In March 2021, Mr Ss car went for its service and he was informed that a recall notice had 
been issued by the manufacturer in May 2020, regarding the cars roof spoiler. The recall 
notice set out that there was a risk that the roof spoiler could partially or completely detach. 
Mr S was advised there were two options available to him. He could either have the spoiler 
secured by two bolts/screws being drilled into the spoiler to secure it to the car or, if he didnt 
wish to have this repair carried out, waive the manufacturers warranty and accept the risk 
that the spoiler could come off.
Mr S was concerned about the proposed repair and says that he contacted the manufacturer 
who confirmed that he had been given the correct advice about his options with regard to the 
roof spoiler. Mr S was unhappy that the repair would cause damage to the car and lead to 
the risk of corrosion. He also felt that the use of two bolts would change the appearance of 
the car and reduce its value, which wasnt acceptable to him. 
Mr S declined the recall repair and complained to VWFS. VWFS said that it had confirmed 
with the manufacturer that the recall notice had been issued for Mr Ss car and that a repair 
was available, as had been set out to him. VWFS upheld his complaint regarding the car 
needing a repair but didnt offer another solution to the proposed solution.
Mr S was disappointed by VWFSs response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. She said that, although she 
was satisfied the car had a fault under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the retailer had a right 
to offer to carry out a repair. Our investigator also said that, while Mr S had raised his 
concerns about the repair that was being offered, there wasnt any evidence that damage 
would be caused to the car or that it would result in a loss of value. 
Our investigator had seen a photo of a car after the proposed repair had been carried out 
and said the use of the bolts/screws appeared to have little impact on its appearance. She 
said that returning the car and cancelling the agreement or being provided with an 
alternative car wasnt a proportionate alternative to the proposed repair.
VWFS said it agreed with our investigators view, but Mr S disagreed. He said hed chosen 
the car because he liked its appearance and it wasnt fair to be forced to accept a repair that 
would change that appearance. He said he wouldnt be able to sell the car without the repair 
being carried out and that corrosion would be a consequence. Mr S said newer models of 
the car wouldnt have these bolts and the presence of these two bolts in the spoiler would 
affect its value. 
As the parties couldnt reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr Ss car was subject to a safety recall from the manufacturer that was 
issued around two years after hed entered into the hire purchase agreement. Mr S has 
raised his concern that he didnt receive this recall notice until around a year after it had 
been issued, but ensuring he received a copy wasnt the responsibility of VWFS but of the 
manufacturer.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (The CRA) the car must be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would 
expect taking into account all the relevant circumstances such as age, condition, 
mileage and price paid for the car.
The type of finance agreement supplied by VWFS to Mr S for the car means that it also 
holds the position of supplier of the car. This means its responsible for ensuring the car 
meets the Acts requirements for satisfactory quality.
Here, as the car was brand new, there would be an expectation that it would be fault free 
and that it wouldnt require repairs for a reasonable period of time. So, Im satisfied that the 
car was faulty due to the recall notice. The CRA sets out the options open to consumers 
when products dont fulfil the terms about goods being of satisfactory quality. There is a 
short-term right to reject, there is the right to repair or replace and finally the right to a price 
reduction or a final right to reject. 
Of these options, the ones that apply here are the right to replace or repair the car. Thats 
because the short-term right has been lost due to the amount of time that has passed 
since the inception of the agreement. And the right to a price reduction or final right to 
reject applies once a repair has been undertaken but failed or when repair or replacement 
isnt possible.
Where there is right to repair or replace, Mr S doesnt have the right to request one 
solution over the other if this would be disproportionate when compared to the other 
remedy. That is, he cant request replacement if that is disproportionate to having the car 
repaired. VWFS says that a manufacturer approved repair has been offered.
Mr S says that the repair thats being offered is totally unsatisfactory due to the impact he 
believes it will have on the cars appearance and on its bodywork, potentially leading to 
corrosion and rust. He also says that, had he been aware of this fault and the proposed 
repair, he wouldnt have agreed to purchase it. 
I appreciate that the risk of the spoiler becoming detached raises a potential serious safety 
issue. However, the repair appears to be relatively straight forward by using bolts or 
screws to secure the spoiler to the body of the car.
While I appreciate Mr Ss concerns about the possible impact on the bodywork I think its 
reasonable to take into account that this repair is approved by the manufacturer and so I 
dont think I can assume that damage will be inevitable. I think its fair to say that if the 
repair is carried out to the appropriate standard that future issues with the bodywork are unlikely. This means it would be unreasonable for Mr S to seek replacement over repair as 
replacement would be disproportionate. 
Ive seen that Mr Ss strongest objection to the repair is the impact he considers it will have 
on the way car looks and that this, in turn, will have an impact on the value and saleability of 
the car in the future. Mr S says he will be unable to sell the car if he doesnt have it repaired 
and that being forced to do so is unfair.
Mr S says that other makes and models of car with spoilers dont have bolts securing them 
to the body of the car and has provided a number of photos to illustrate this point. Mr S says 
that the addition of the bolts will therefore change the way the car looks.
Ive seen a photo of a car that has had this repair carried out and, while I appreciate that 
views about this repair will be subjective, I dont think I can reasonably say that the use of 
the bolts/screws substantially changes the appearance of the car. The bolts/screws that are 
used appear to match the colour of the spoiler and arent particularly large. In my objective 
opinion this repair didnt really stand out when compared with photos of spoilers without 
them. Again, I also have to acknowledge that the manufacturer has approved this repair. I 
dont have any evidence that this repair would result in loss of value of the car.
Ive also seen that the hire purchase agreement for this car ends in March 2022 and, at that 
point, Mr S can return the car if he wishes. If, at that point, there has been any impact on the 
value of the car as a result of this repair then I would expect VWFS to take that into 
consideration.
So, looking at the evidence, I think the offer to repair is fair and reasonable and that to seek 
replacement of the car would be disproportionate. Im not therefore asking for VWFS to do 
more and Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman