DRN-2831257
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc recorded late payment markers on her credit file.
What happened
Toward the end of 2018, Ms P experienced a change in her financial circumstances, one
result of which was that she was unable to make the minimum payments required on her
Sainsburys credit card.
Ms P contacted Sainsburys and explained her situation. Sainsburys agreed to temporary
repayment plan which would include freezing any interest and charges on the account.
However, Ms P wasnt informed that because the payment plan would involve paying less
that the standard minimum monthly repayment amount, that this would mean that late
payment markers would be recorded on her credit file.
Sometime later, when Ms P had recovered her financial position, she became aware of the
late payment markers recorded by Sainsburys on her credit file. So, she made a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Ms Ps complaint. They acknowledged that they could have been
clearer in their communication with Ms P about the late payment markers, and they made a
payment to Ms P of £125 to apologise for this and to compensate her for the upset and
inconvenience the matter had caused.
However, Sainsburys also confirmed that they felt that the late payment markers had been
applied to Ms Ps credit file correctly, and that because of this they would be unwilling to
remove them from her credit file, as Ms P was wanting.
Ms P wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response, so she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel it was fair that
Sainsburys hadnt explained to Ms P that a consequence of accepting the payment plan
was that her credit file would be affected. So, they recommended that the complaint be
upheld in Ms Ps favour and that the late payment markers be removed from her credit file.
Sainsburys didnt agree that the late payment markers should be removed from Ms Ps
credit file, and they said that they were an accurate recording of what had taken place. So,
they matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 May 2021 as follows:
Its natural to sympathise with Ms Ps position here, and its heartening to learn that 
she was able to overcome the financial difficulties that she was in and recover the 
balance of her financial affairs.
When a customer informs a business that they are experiencing financial difficulties, 
what this service would expect would be that the business would respond to that 
customer with a degree of sympathy and positivity to help that customer, where 
reasonably possible, to recover their financial position.
I think that Sainsburys did that here. They agree to freeze interest and charges on 
Ms Ps account and agreed a temporary payment plan where they accepted lower 
payments than were required as minimum payments under the contractual terms of 
the account.
But clarity of communication would also be expected by this service. And by 
Sainsburys own admission, they didnt explain the full ramifications of the temporary 
payment plan to Ms P, including that it would entail the recording of late payment 
markers on Ms Ps credit file.
Sainsburys have apologised to Ms P because of this, and Sainsburys made a 
payment of £125 to Ms P by way of compensation. And this feels fair to me.
But it doesnt necessarily follow from this that its fair and reasonable, in 
consideration of everything that happened, for me to instruct Sainsburys to remove 
the late payment markers from Ms Ps credit file.
Its important here to understand what a credit file is and isnt. For instance, a credit 
file isnt a record of fault  and by this I mean that the function of a credit file isnt to 
record instances where an individual has, through some action or omission of their 
own for which they can be considered to be solely responsible for, missed a payment 
on a credit account, or something similar.
Rather, the purpose of a credit file is to provide an accurate reflection of an 
individuals credit history, including all instances of missed or late payments, 
regardless of the circumstances surrounding those missed or late payments.
As such, it would be expected that in circumstances such as this - where a customer 
was in a position where they couldnt afford to meet the agreed payments on an 
account such that they had to, for a period of time, make lower payments - that the 
customers credit file would record that lower payments were being made for that 
period of time.
In Ms Ps case, this should have been explained to her by Sainsburys at the time 
that she was agreeing to the repayment plan. But it doesnt follow that because it 
wasnt explained to Mrs P at that time, that the late payment markers recorded on her 
credit file as a consequence of accepting that plan should be removed from her credit 
file. Because ultimately, they do provide an accurate reflection of what took place.
Additionally, having reviewed all of the information available to me, Im satisfied that 
its more likely than not, on balance, that Ms P would still have gone ahead with the 
repayment plan even had she been told that it would entail the recording of late 
payment markers on her credit file. And I say this because Ms Ps circumstances 
were such at that time that she couldnt make the minimum payments needed on the 
account to avoid this.
So, while I accept that Sainsburys werent as clear in their communication with Ms P 
as they should have been, I feel that the appropriate response here is the payment of 
compensation  which Sainsburys have done  rather than the removal of the late payment markers from Ms Ps credit file. And this is because, as explained above, 
these late payment markers provide an accurate reflection of what took place.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Sainsburys have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably toward Ms P by not removing the late payment markers from 
her credit file, and Im satisfied that the response that Sainsburys have already made 
to Ms Ps complaint, including the payment of £125 compensation, is fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms P was wanting here, but it follows 
from this that my provisional decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or asking Sainsburys to take any further action at this time. I hope that Ms P can 
understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the 
provisional decision that I have, although I welcome any comments and further 
information she may wish to provide.
In my provisional decision I gave both Ms P and Sainsburys the opportunity to provide any 
comments of further information they wished me to consider before moving to a final 
decision. 
Both Ms P and Sainsburys confirmed that they accepted my provisional decision. As such, 
my final decision will be a confirmation of my provisional decision and will be that I do not 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman