DRN-3043062
The complaint
Mr P has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has unfairly declined 
his claim made under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974).
What happened
In March 2017 Mr P, alongside his wife, took out an accommodation contract with a holiday 
company. Under the agreement, they were entitled to several things, including:
One week of accommodation in a named hotel.
Once the first week at the hotel was taken, Mr and Mrs P were entitled to seven 
weeks of accommodation in an apartment, to be taken over a twelve month period.
A cruise (this was described as being a gift).
Membership of a scheme that offered a holiday booking service, concierge service 
and discounted entertainment offers.
The cost of the agreement was €6,940 and Mr P paid for this with his credit card, including a 
deposit taken on the day he entered the agreement.
Mr and Mrs P said that when they went on the first holiday to the hotel, they were pressured 
into taking out a new timeshare membership. Mr P described this as an upgrade from the 
accommodation contract, which then came to an end. Mr P did not use his NatWest credit 
card to pay for this membership.
In October 2017, Mr P made a claim to NatWest under s.75 CCA 1974  this was made 
using a professional representative (B). B argued that, as payments were taken on the day 
Mr P signed up to the agreements, that was a breach of timeshare legislation as he should 
have been given a fourteen day cooling off period. B argues that there was a further breach 
by taking payment within that fourteen day period. Although the agreement was taken out in 
Mr and Mrs Ps names, as the credit card was in Mr Ps name, only he was able to make that 
claim.
NatWest responded to the claim to say it did not think Mr P had demonstrated there was any 
claim it needed to answer under s.75 CCA 1974.
Mr P referred a complaint to our service that his claim had been unfairly turned down. That 
was considered by an investigator, who thought the concerns raised by B could not be 
considered under s.75 CCA 1974. But Mr P disagreed and asked the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision. 
I will also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not 
address every point that has been raised.
Mr P has made a claim under s.75(1) CCA 1974. That legislation reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
Here Mr P used his NatWest credit card to pay for the accommodation contract, so NatWest 
could be jointly liable for any misrepresentations made by the supplier of the accommodation 
contract or for any breaches of that contract.
B has argued that the accommodation contract should have contained a fourteen day 
cooling off period and no payment should have been taken in that period, following 
timeshare legislation. I make no finding on whether that is correct as I do not need to do so 
for the purposes of this decision. That is because neither failing to put a cooling off period in 
the contract nor taking payment within a cooling off period amounts to a misrepresentation or 
breach of the accommodation contract. So I cannot see how Mr Ps allegations give rise to 
any claim under s.75 CCA 1974.
Further, as the later timeshare membership was not paid for using Mr Ps NatWest credit 
card, I do not think NatWest needs to answer any claim about that membership under s.75 
CCA 1974 as it did not finance that membership purchase.
Finally, B has asked me to take into account another complaint that this service has 
considered about the purchase of a similar accommodation contract from the same supplier, 
again using credit. However, every complaint that is brought to our service is determined on 
its own facts and circumstances. And for the reasons I have given, I do not think NatWest 
needs to do anything further to answer Mr Ps claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman