DRN-2317510
The complaint
Mr S complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to the deposit of a cheque to 
his account which was later debited and his attempts to find out the reasons why.
What happened
Mr S paid a cheque into his account on 24 September. The cheque was subsequently 
debited on 25 September and appeared on his statement with the narrative Returned 
Cheque. Mr S logged into his online banking on 26 September.
Mr S asked Santander to provide the reason for the unpaid cheque and also an explanation 
for why they had not notified him of it. He said he needed to know the reason why the 
cheque had been returned before he took it up with the cheque issuer.
Santander accepted a letter wasnt sent to Mr S to notify him the cheque had been returned 
unpaid. It also said that it hadnt conveyed the reason for the returned cheque because the 
paying bank hadnt advised of any reason. It went on to say that Mr S would have known 
whom the cheque had come from and therefore could have contacted them for a 
replacement or an alternative payment and to identify the reason why.  Santander also said 
that their internal audit system provided a particular code which describes the reason as 
Stop - Duplicate Cheque.
Mr S was unhappy with Santanders final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had poor service 
by Santander by not providing him with the reason for the cheque being returned as 
described by the code. He thought £50 compensation would be a fair and reasonable 
resolution.
Santander didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. Mr S had previously accepted the investigators view but withdrew his 
acceptance on learning of Santanders response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted that the cheque was returned and debited from Mr S account on 25 
September. Mr S would have known that because he logged into his account on 26 
September. Santander accept they did not send Mr S a letter notifying him. So, in relation to 
the first part of this complaint, which concerns Mr S not being advised the cheque was 
returned, I agree that such a notification would have made no difference as to his knowledge 
that the cheque had been returned. That is because he knew on 26 September which is 
likely to have been before he would have received any letter Santander could have sent to 
him. 
The second part to this complaint is Mr S wish to know why the cheque was returned. The 
documents provided by Santander include a string of emails. An analysis of this evidence 
shows that Mr S initially asked Santander for the reason on 1 October. The reply on 7 
October does not provide one. 
Mr S pressed Santander further, adding further complaints regarding the delay in providing 
the original cheque and the delay in responding to his messages. Santander replied on 9 
October to say it still didnt know the reason why and that Mr S should contact the cheque 
issuer. It said they would provide a copy of the cheque as it no longer held the original. It 
noted that Mr S asked for a written response. 
Mr S raised the matter again on 11 October as he had not received the copy cheque nor a 
written response. Santander responded the same day saying that if Mr S hadnt received a 
copy of the cheque it could arrange for one to be sent to him.
On 12 October Santander provided a reply to Mr S stating it still didnt know the reason, but 
after further pressure from Mr S Santander eventually found it, and told him on 18 October, 
that being that it was a Duplicate Cheque.
Dealing first with Mr S request to Santander to provide him with the reason for the stopped 
cheque, my first observation is that is an entirely reasonable request. I appreciate that with 
the declining use of cheques the methods of dealing with such matters have changed and 
Santanders procedure is that it no longer retains the original cheque nor annotates it. That is 
a matter for them, and I cant say that in operating that way they are being unfair. They keep 
a digital copy of the cheque and provide it to their customers. In this case, Santander did 
provide a copy of the digital cheque which took just over two weeks to get to Mr S. In the 
meantime, they had been unable to provide him with the reason why the cheque had been 
stopped. It is clear they actually knew the reason, but for a reason which remains unclear, 
whomever was dealing with the matter prior to the 18 October had been unable to find that 
out.
Santanders response has been that it was always open to Mr S to simply ask the cheque 
issuer why the cheque had been returned, and that to do so was a simple step to take. That 
is true, but it was also a simple step for Santander to tell him the reason as they had that 
information. Santanders view however omits that it could be embarrassing or otherwise 
awkward for Mr S to have to ask that question of the cheque issuer. There may have been 
other issues at stake. Asking his bank was therefore not only reasonable, but in my view a 
sensible step for him to take and one to which he was entitled to receive a swift reply.
Turning to the delay in providing him with the digital cheque I dont find there to have been 
any great delay here, and in my view it was provided within a reasonable time frame. As to 
the delay in responding to Mr S messages, again I can find no significant delay. I accept that 
replies were not instant, but they were responded to within a few days, which I think is 
reasonable. 
Mr S final part of his complaint concerns not being provided with a written response when 
he asked for one. In responding to any complaint Santander must provide a final response 
letter within 8 weeks, which they did. What Mr S complains of is that on 9 October he asked 
for a written response and had received a telephone call in reply. I cant say that Santander 
acted unfairly in choosing to contact Mr S by telephone on that occasion as they were 
entitled to. That call didnt impact upon the provision of the final response letter which was in 
writing.
Putting things rightSo, I do agree that Santander ought to have provided Mr S with the reason why the cheque 
was stopped much sooner than it did and that it was not fair to expect him to contact the 
cheque issuer. But I dont find beyond that, that Santander have acted unfairly. 
Ive thought about the level of compensation our investigator suggested, and I think that is 
fair in all the circumstances and that is what I shall say Santander must pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc shall pay Mr S £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman