DRN-3619661
The complaint
Mr A, who was a sole trader, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt close his Business 
Bank Account at his request.
What happened
Mr A asked Lloyds to close his Business Bank Account as his business was no longer 
trading. However, Lloyds explained that because Mr A had taken a Bounce Back Loan which 
remained outstanding, they were unable to close the Business Bank Account. This was 
because some form of business account was needed for Mr A to be able to service the 
Bounce Back Loan that Mr A held. Mr A wasnt happy about this, especially as he was 
paying monthly fees on the Business Bank Account. So, he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr As complaint. They confirmed that they were presently unable to close 
the Business Bank Account because if they did so there would no longer be a business 
account available to allow Mr A to service the Bounce Back Loan. 
However, Lloyds also explained to Mr A that he could apply for a new Loan Servicing 
Account, which would be a fee free account, and that when this new account was opened 
and set up to enable the servicing of the Bounce Back Loan that the fee-paying Business 
Bank Account that Mr A was complaining about could be closed. Mr A wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly towards Mr A in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by confirming that Mr A has brought this complaint to this service solely on 
the basis that Lloyds havent closed the Business Bank Account as he would like. Lloyds 
have explained that this is because of the Bounce Back Loan that Mr A applied and was 
approved for, and which requires a business account to be open to allow it to be serviced.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr A has explained that he has no intention of 
repaying the Bounce Back Loan and feels that it should be written off, given that his 
business is no longer trading. However, as explained, this complaint was brought to this 
service solely in regard to Lloyds not closing the Business Bank Account, and it wasnt 
brought to this service as a complaint about the Bounce Back Loan, including that it hadnt 
been written off by Lloyds. 
Furthermore, Lloyds response to Mr As complaint, which included providing Mr A with the 
right to refer his complaint to this, was again solely in reference to Mr As complaint about 
the Business Bank Account not being closed, and didnt make any reference to any 
complaint that Mr A might have about the Bounce Back Loan itself.
This service can only consider a complaint after the respondent business has themselves 
had the opportunity to consider and respond to it. As such, given that Mr A appears not to 
have raised a complaint about the Bounce Back Loan with Lloyds, and also that Lloyds 
havent considered and responded to a complaint about the Bounce Back Loan, as well as 
that Mr A has brought his complaint to this service solely about the Business Bank Account 
not being closed as he would like, Im satisfied that its not within the scope of this complaint 
for this service to consider the merits of the Bounce Back Loan at this time. As such, If Mr A 
wishes to complain about the Bounce Back Loan, I can only refer him to Lloyds to raise such 
a complaint with them in the first instance.
In consideration of the Business Bank Account, I dont feel that Lloyds did act unfairly 
towards Mr A by declining to close that account. And this is essentially for the reasons 
already explained by Lloyds  specifically, that some form of business account is required to 
be open to enable the servicing of the Bounce Back Loan that remains liable for repayment.
Additionally, I note that Lloyds did explain to Mr A that he could apply to open a Loan 
Servicing Account, which would be a fee-free account and the opening of which would then 
enable the fee-incurring Business Bank Account to be closed. And I note that Lloyds also 
attempted to call Mr A by telephone about the option to open the Loan Servicing Account 
and have sent Mr A numerous letters about his business account.
It's difficult to conclude that Lloyds have acted unreasonably here. This is because theyve 
proposed a solution to Mr A that would have enabled him to close the Business Bank 
Account as he was wanting, but they havent been able to implement that solution because 
Mr A hasnt engaged with them about it.
And so, given the lack of engagement from Mr A about this matter, I dont feel that Lloyds 
have acted unreasonably by taking the later actions that they did here, including continuing 
to charge the monthly fees that became due on the Business Bank Account or in 
subsequently transferring that account to their recoveries department.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I trust that Mr A will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman