DRN-3164771
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt provide him with the service it should have 
when his debit card was blocked.
What happened
Mr P complains that his account was blocked for online transactions and even though he 
spoke with the fraud department the block wasnt lifted. He says this has caused him stress 
and inconvenience as he has tried to resolve the issue and that he has needed to use 
another account for online transactions.
Lloyds issued a final response letter dated 9 April 2021 upholding Mr Ps complaint. It said 
that a transaction resulted in a fraud alert and that due to delays in Mr P being able to speak 
to the fraud team he was awarded £40 compensation. Further information was then provided 
which showed the block on Mr Ps debit card hadnt been correctly lifted. It awarded him £75 
because of the inconvenience this caused and told him he would need to call the fraud team 
for this to be resolved.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He understood the frustration Mr P had been 
caused and noted the compensation Lloyds had paid for this. He said that Lloyds had 
provided Mr P with a contact number to call to resolve the issue with the ongoing block on 
online payments. He thought this was sufficient.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he made a purchase that was flagged 
by the banks fraud department. He then contacted the fraud department as requested and 
was told the block would be lifted but this didnt happen. He said he was then told to call 
another number which wasnt answered. He says that Lloyds made the mistake by not lifting 
the block on his account and it shouldnt have been up to him to rectify this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr P is upset by the service he has received from Lloyds regarding the 
block on his debit card. While I accept that there was no fraud on Mr Ps account, Lloyds is 
required to have security systems in place and so I do not find I can say it did anything 
wrong by placing a block on Mr Ps account when there was a fraud alert on a transaction.
However, after this happened, Mr P wasnt provided with service he should have been. He 
contacted the fraud team and experienced delays while trying to speak to an adviser. 
Because of this he was awarded £40 compensation. I find this reasonable. 
Mr P was told the block on his card had been lifted. He then tried to make an online 
transaction and found the block was still in place. I can understand that this would have been 
frustrating and caused him inconvenience. Mr P contacted Lloyds and it looked into the issue 
and found that the block hadnt been correctly removed from Mr Ps debit card and so while 
he was still able to use his debit card for CHIP and PIN and contactless transactions it was 
blocked for online transactions. He was given a number to call to resolve this and paid a 
further £75 compensation.
I appreciate that Mr P doesnt think it right that he had to take action by making a call to 
Lloyds following its mistake of not lifting the block on his card correctly. However, I do not 
think that Lloyds was making an unreasonable request or treating Mr P unfairly by explaining 
the process that needed to be taken to have the issue corrected. I note Mr Ps comment 
about struggling to get through to the number, and I agree this issue did cause him stress 
and inconvenience. However, in this case, as Mr P was paid a total of £115 compensation I 
think this is reasonable for the issues he experienced. 
In conclusion, Lloyds didnt provide Mr P with the service it should have after he made 
contact with its fraud team. However, I think it did then take reasonable steps to rectify this 
by providing Mr P with the relevant number to call and paying him compensation for the 
issues he had experienced. Therefore, I do not require it to do anything further in resolution 
of this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman