DRN-4443119
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with what Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited did after she made a 
claim on her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2022 Mrs W contacted RSA to make a claim on her policy for assistance with 
employment related claims. She subsequently provided additional information in support of 
her claim. RSA asked one of its panel solicitors to assess whether the claim would have 
reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy) and its advice was received at 
the end of May. 
RSA told Mrs W in early June her claims for victimisation, discrimination and harassment 
didnt have reasonable prospects of success. And it said further information was required to 
decide if a claim for constructive dismissal was proportionate to pursue. RSA said it would 
be happy to reconsider the position on this if Mrs W was able to provide further information. 
Mrs W raised concerns about the assessment with RSA and provided a schedule of loss in 
relation to the constructive dismissal claim. The panel firm advised the claim was arguably 
proportionate to pursue but the other side had already made an offer which exceeded the 
value of this. So their advice was this should be accepted. RSA therefore said it wouldnt be 
taking further action in relation to this. 
Our investigator thought RSA were entitled to rely on the assessment and advice provided 
by the panel firm. And she thought it had provided relevant information to that firm so it could 
carry out that assessment. It also shared Mrs Ws subsequent concerns with the firm but that 
hadnt caused it to change its assessment. She thought RSA had acted fairly and reasonably 
when considering the claim. There had been some confusion over whether documents had 
been received by RSA but she didnt think that had caused significant delay to the 
assessment of the claim. 
Mrs W didnt agree. She thought there had been delays by RSA in responding to her. And 
she highlighted in particular a request for more information the panel firm had sent to RSA 
on 13 April (asking about the quantum of her claim) which she wasnt made aware of until it 
wrote to her in June. She also said there had been a delay in letting her know what the panel 
firms prospects assessment was. And she said further information she then sent to RSA in 
relation to her constructive dismissal claim wasnt considered by the panel firm and she 
wasnt satisfied it had reviewed the other information she provided. So I need to reach a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We can only consider the covered activities set out in our rules (the Dispute Resolution 
Rules or DISP). Those activities include regulated activities. Carrying out a contract of 
insurance is a regulated activity. Thats why we can consider what RSA did here. 
But while I appreciate Mrs W also has concerns about the actions of the panel solicitors that 
isnt something I can look at. When acting in their legal capacity that firm isnt carrying out a 
regulated activity (and their actions arent covered by any of the other activities we can 
consider). So her concerns about their actions arent something I can consider. 
Turning to the actions of RSA the relevant rules and industry guidelines say it has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws policy. This does provide cover for 
employment disputes but thats on condition it has prospects of success. And the policy says 
that means at least a 51% chance of you achieving a favourable outcome. The policy also 
contains a general exclusion for costs where the likely settlement is disproportionate to the 
time and costs incurred in dealing with the claim. And it excludes costs where the 
policyholder fails to follow the advice of the solicitor acting for them. 
As an insurer isnt a legal expert we dont think its in a position to carry out the prospects 
assessment and it should be carried out by a suitably qualified lawyer who has relevant 
experience. Where that has been done we think its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a 
properly written and reasoned legal opinion when deciding whether a claim has prospects of 
success or not. 
In this case RSA did refer the matter to one of its panel firms for assessment. I can see that 
assessment was carried out by a qualified lawyer whose area of expertise include 
discrimination and employment law. Ive read the assessment and I think it is properly written 
and reasoned; it addresses the claims made by Mrs W and gives reasons for why (with the 
exception of the constructive dismissal claim) they were unlikely to succeed. And it provided 
advice on next steps with the constructive dismissal claim.
I appreciate Mrs W disagrees with that assessment, but I think its one RSA was entitled to 
rely on. And while Mrs W feels not all of the information she provided was taken into account 
the evidence Ive seen shows RSA did provide that to the panel firm. That firm confirmed 
receipt of key documents and said on 19 May it would update its assessment based on the 
further information received. So I dont think there was further action RSA needed to take in 
relation to this.  
After the assessment had been completed Mrs W then provide further information (including 
a schedule of loss) in relation to her constructive dismissal claim. RSA provided that to the 
panel firm as Id expect. And on the basis of that information it concluded the claim was likely 
proportionate to pursue. However, as there was already an offer from the other side that 
exceeded the value of that claim its advice was this should be accepted. Again I think it was 
reasonable and in line with the policy terms for RSA to rely on that advice when deciding 
that, as a result, it wouldnt provide funding for this claim. 
I appreciate Mrs W says the panel firm had previously emailed RSA with questions about the 
value of her claims (in April) and this request hadnt been passed on to her. Ive reviewed the 
file and I can see RSA did respond to the panel solicitors on this and queried what evidence 
would be required. 
Its not clear any response was provided prior to the panel firms assessment being provided 
at the end of May. However, I accept it would have been sensible in any case to have 
passed this request on to Mrs W when it was made as she might have been able to address 
this issue earlier. But I dont think thats caused a significant issue with the progress of her 
claim; I think its reasonable to conclude the advice from the panel firm would always have been to accept the offer that had been made given this exceeded the total value of her 
constructive dismissal claim. And given that I dont think RSA needed to ask the panel firm to 
carry out any further review of the merits of Mrs Ws constructive dismissal claim. 
Mrs W also says there was a delay in the outcome of the prospects assessment being 
provided to her. This was received by RSA around the 26 May and was sent to her on 9 
June. But I think it was reasonable that RSA would need time to review and consider that 
assessment prior to communicating its claim decision to Mrs W. And looking at the 
correspondence between Mrs W and RSA in the round I dont think that, overall, the 
timeframes for its responses were unreasonable. I do accept that RSA gave Mrs W what it 
accepts was incorrect advice about whether she could make a complaint about the panel 
solicitor. But given this issue appears to have been resolved relatively quickly I dont think 
theres anything more it needs to do to put things right here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
15 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman