DRN-2009810
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt paid enough compensation for the mis-
sale of mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) to him. Mr S says that the offer is 
lower than it should be because Barclays didnt include the whole time he says he was 
paying for this cover when it calculated the offer. 
Mr S also says that Barclays should pay him an additional amount for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result of the unsatisfactory way in which Barclays dealt 
with his complaint. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr S complained to Barclays about the mis-sale to him of MPPI. Barclays 
investigated his complaint and agreed to pay compensation to him for the mis-sale of a 
MPPI policy taken out with a joint mortgage in 1994. 
Barclays says its records show that the start date of the MPPI was 31st October 1994 and it 
ended when it was cancelled with effect from 31 December 1995. Barclays calculated its 
offer based on the monthly premium payments deemed to have been made for the policy 
whilst it was in force during this time.
Mr S has said he has no recollection of having cancelled the policy in December 1995 and 
believes that he had MPPI cover on the mortgages he had with Barclays for the whole period 
from 1994 until this lending ended in 2003. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought that, taking 
account of all the available information, the compensation which had been paid to Mr S by 
Barclays for this mis-sale was fair. So she didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Barclays has provided a screenshot from its insurers computer system which shows the PPI 
it sold covering Mr S had a start date of 31 October 1994. And it shows that the policy ended 
on 30 December 1995, following its cancellation on 8 December 1995. The monthly premium 
which was paid for this policy is shown on this screenshot as £29.30. And it would appear 
from the screenshot that Barclays didnt sell any other PPI policies attached to mortgages 
Mr S held with it.
Using the information which it has obtained from its insurer, Barclays says it calculated its 
offer to Mr S on the basis that thirteen monthly premium payments would have been made 
between the recorded start date and end date of the policy. Having already paid 
compensation to the joint mortgagor of the lending to which this policy was attached, 
Barclays offer to Mr S was calculated using 50% of these premiums. And Barclays added 
8% simple interest to this amount for the period from when the premiums were paid until 
Mr S received his offer of compensation. 
Ive thought carefully about the reasons Mr S has given for thinking that he has paid more for 
PPI sold by Barclays than it has compensated him for. And I appreciate that he is clear in his 
own mind that he was paying for PPI cover for longer than Barclays records show. But I 
need to bear in mind that memories of such things do tend to fade with time and even the 
latest date which Mr S says he was paying for PPI is now some seventeen years ago. So I 
dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that Barclays has understated the amount he 
paid for the PPI based only on what Mr S thinks he recall now. 
In responding to our adjudicators view, Mr S has said that he disputes the fact that the PPI 
policy sold by Barclays was a joint one. But I think Mr S has misunderstood what has been 
said. Although the PPI policy may only have provided cover for Mr S, it was protecting the 
repayments on a joint mortgage, for which both mortgagors were responsible. So, in line with 
what I would have expected, the monthly premium payments made for the policy are 
deemed to have been made jointly by both mortgagors, even though the actual cover may 
have been for Mr S alone.
Mr S has also said that, even if the PPI policy was cancelled in 1995, that doesnt mean that 
he wasnt paying PPI premiums on other mortgages held with Barclays over the period from 
1994 to 2003. But Mr S hasnt provided me with any information or evidence which makes 
me think this is more likely than not to have been the case.
 
If Mr S had been paying for other PPI policies on his mortgages sold by Barclays during this 
period, I would have expected these to have been shown on the computer records held by 
Barclays insurer. And Ive no reason to think Barclays is wrong in saying that monthly PPI 
premiums would have been paid to the insurer through separate direct debits to those used 
to repay his mortgage. But Mr S hasnt been able to provide any copies of bank statements 
or other records which show additional PPI payments having been made to those already 
identified by Barclays.
Mr S says that the 2003 mortgage redemption document he has provided mentions that PPI 
will be automatically cancelled, but it is the mortgagors responsibility to ensure the direct 
debits relating to the PPI are cancelled. But Im satisfied with Barclays explanation that this 
is standard wording which it uses on all such documents and does not mean that there was 
an actual PPI policy attached to the mortgage at that time.
Having carefully considered all the information and evidence provided by both parties, I think 
its most likely the case that Barclays has calculated the compensation offer it made to Mr S 
taking account of all the PPI premium payments which were made. And Im satisfied that 
Barclays has correctly applied the methodology which this service would expect it to use in 
calculating its mis-sale offer to Mr S. So I think Barclays compensation offer - and 
subsequent payment - is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Ive also thought about what Mr S has said about the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered as a result of the way his complaint was handled by Barclays and that he thinks he 
should receive additional compensation for this. But, although I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr S, I havent seen anything which makes me think that Barclays should 
pay him anything extra for the way it handled his complaint.My final decision
It follows from what Ive already said that Im not upholding this complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, so I dont require them to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman