DRN-2140009
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as TSB) mis-sold her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1994 in 
connection with a credit card.
What happened
Mrs P complained to this service. She says she wasnt aware PPI had been added to her 
credit card account ending with the numbers 6044. She says she didnt need it because she 
had other resources to rely on  like good employee benefits, and her husbands savings. So 
she concludes it was mis-sold.
Lloyds Bank rejected Mrs Ps mis-sale complaint. Lloyds Bank added that although Mrs P 
did buy PPI, she had not paid any PPI premiums.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs P disagreed     
with our adjudicators view and asked for the whole matter to be looked at 
again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result for her, so Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds Bank nor Mrs P have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats 
surprising given that the sale took place around 26 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have happened, 
given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
However, Lloyds Bank did produce a copy of the type of credit card agreement it would have 
used in 1994. I can see there is a tick box on the form where the consumer can choose or 
decline to take Payments Insurance. As it is likely that Mrs P would have seen this form or 
something very close to it, I think it shows that PPI probably was presented to her as an 
optional product. Mrs P hasnt told me anything about the sale which makes me think Lloyds 
Bank didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its more likely Lloyds Bank 
made it clear to Mrs P she had a choice about the PPI, and she agreed to buy it although I 
can understand why she may not remember this now.
Lloyds Bank says it cant say whether the sale was advised or non-advised, so it has 
assumed it was an advised sale, so I will also continue on that basis as this is a higher test 
level for Lloyds Bank to satisfy.
 
For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for her needs and the PPI information had to 
be clear enough for Mrs P to make an informed decision. 
In this case, I think it was a suitable product for her. I say this because she was eligible 
to buy it, she wasnt affected by the things not covered in the policy (the exclusions). 
And it seems it was affordable for her at the time.
Mrs P said she would get good employee benefits and had savings. But the PPI could have 
been useful if she wasnt able to work or had lost her job. And it could have lasted for longer 
than and in addition to her employee benefits  leaving her savings for other expenses. So I
dont think her finances made the policy unsuitable.
Mrs P said she could rely on her husband to pay for her credit card if she couldnt 
afford the repayments. I understand the point she is making. But there was no 
guarantee she could rely on this help at some unknown point in the future. So I dont 
think this made the policy unsuitable at the time of the sale.
As I mentioned above, Lloyds Bank also had to give Mrs P enough information which 
was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed decision.
I dont know how Lloyds Bank told Mrs P about the cost and benefits of the policy. But 
having decided she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems it was affordable and would have been useful for her if something went wrong. So 
even if she had been given detailed information about the cost and benefits, I dont think it 
would have put her off from buying the PPI.
Lloyds Bank should also have pointed out the main exclusions. I dont know how it 
did this, but it does not appear that Mrs P was affected by the main exclusions. So 
- even if shed been given a full list of them - I dont think it would have put her off 
from buying the PPI.
So taking everything into account, I am not going to uphold this complaint. I realise 
that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs P. Its always difficult to 
decide a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought very carefully about 
what Mrs P has said and about what I know of Lloyds Banks sales processes. 
And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably uphold her complaint.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. Lloyds Bank has given me information that shows Mrs Ps credit card was taken out in 1994 
and ended in 2005. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So Lloyds Bank doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs P paid for the PPI they 
had with her credit card.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman