DRN-3740200
The complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice provided by AMG Wealth Solutions LLP 
(AMG) in February 2018 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative). 
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which he provided to both the Representative and AMG. I dont intend to repeat 
here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr H, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr H to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred 
to the PPF. The details of Mr Hs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as 
follows:
He had accrued 10 years and 8 months qualifying service between July 2006 and 
March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, qualifying service and 
benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his annual 
scheme pension was £7,016. The scheme pension would be revalued by a 
prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, 
once in payment, would also escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £151,165.10. 
In response to the announcement by Tata Steel, Mr H contacted AMG for advice. He met 
one of its advisers in January 2018. A fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire 
were completed which recorded the following information about Mr H:
He was aged 36 and his wife aged 33. They were both in good health. They had two 
financially dependent children aged between 2 and 8;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£44,000 (his base annual salary was about £32,000). His wife was employed part-
time by the NHS as a nurse and paid gross annual income of about £20,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £145,000 and cash savings of 
£10,000. They didnt have any other savings or investments;
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £80,000 on their marital home 
which was due to be repaid in 13 years time when he would be aged 49. They didnt 
have any other debts or liabilities; 
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income of several 
hundred pounds available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full State pension at age 68 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme provided by Aviva since April 2017. The 
total annual contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary. His 
wife had accrued 12 years pensionable service in the NHS Pension Scheme by that 
point; and
He was a first time investor. On a scale of 1 to 10 where 1 was lowest risk and 10 
was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 3 which was defined as Low 
Risk.
Following the fact find meeting, AMG issued its suitability report to Mr H in February 2018. 
The report confirmed Mr Hs financial goals, objectives and priorities related to his 
safeguarded benefits, as follows:
You wanted me to review your deferred defined benefit scheme accrued from your 
pensionable service within the British Steel Pension Scheme. The Scheme closed on 
March 2017.
You are not trusting of your employer as you have said things have changed so 
considerably over the last 24 months. The ongoing stability of your pension is 
causing you concern and therefore want it reviewed.You ideally would not want to work at TATA past age 60 and if possible retire at that 
point.
You are looking to invest for potential growth whilst remaining within your acceptable 
levels of risk and you would like flexibility with regards to how your funds can be 
accessed at retirement via a personal pension as opposed to the way that benefits 
are to be paid by the new scheme currently on, which on indication is likely to be 
BSPS2.
You wish to access your pension fund when you stop working to provide a variable 
income. You wish to have the ability to access the fund as fits with your income 
needs and the flexibility to reduce or increase your benefits with due consideration for 
your Aviva pension plan and your state pension.
You would like to ensure that your funds are an inheritable asset for [Mr Hs wife] 
upon your death with the ability to include provision for [Mr Hs children] as well.
Your initial wish is to invest for the long term (20 years +) although you may wish to 
access your funds prior to age 65 if your employment situation changes in the future.
You are unsure at this stage what this may mean in reality but likely to be closer to 
60 than your state pension age.
You also realise that any investment may become considerably longer depending on 
how you access your funds into retirement.
We had a conversation at our meetings with regards to the potential way that you 
could invest to obtain your desired pension requirements and you have asked that for 
now to limit the risk and volatility you are subject to. As you have stated you are 
coming out of a guaranteed environment and would like control over volatility as your 
perception is stock markets are very high.
We discussed inflation proofing and you agreed that the fund being invested with 
exposure to some equities was important to achieve that.
Your beneficiaries will also receive a payment of 4 x your salary upon death whilst a 
member of the TATA Aviva scheme, although a further lump sum from this pension 
would be helpful it is not the main priority.
The costs associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability report. The 
initial advice charge for recommending the transfer was 2.00% (or £3,023.30). The total 
ongoing charge was 1.28% - this included product, investment and ongoing advice charges. 
It was agreed that all charges would be deducted from Mr Hs PPP fund value. 
Mr H accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
AMG recommended that, after the deduction of its initial adviser charge, the transfer value 
be invested across a range of funds to align with Mr Hs Low Risk profile.
This complaint
During 2021, the Representative, on behalf of Mr H, complained to AMG about the suitability 
of its pension transfer advice. In summary, it stated that Mr H was concerned the advice 
wasnt in his best interests and had caused him to suffer a financial loss. AMG didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that it had considered all three 
options available to Mr H (the PPF, BSPS2 or pension transfer) and that a pension transfer 
was the only viable option to enable him to achieve his recorded objectives. In its view, 
neither the BPS2 nor PPF wouldve enabled Mr H to achieve his objectives. It was satisfied 
that it had adhered to and considered relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing 
Mr H with all the necessary information and risk warnings in good time to be able to make an 
informed decision.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in his view, AMG failed to demonstrate that transferring to the PPP was clearly in 
Mr Hs best interests. He thought suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To 
put things right, our investigator recommended that AMG carry out a redress calculation in 
line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that Mr H transferred for the BSPS2 and would 
be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that AMG pay Mr H 
£300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
AMG disagreed with our investigators assessment and provided additional comments in 
response. Our investigator considered those comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
view and recommendation that this complaint should be upheld. Since agreement couldnt 
be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to review and decide. This is the last 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Im satisfied that Ive been provided 
with sufficient evidence to decide this complaint.
To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under separate headings below.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of AMGs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)The provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as 
follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other  pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail 
client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interestsCOBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of AMGs advice to Mr H, its necessary for me to have due 
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Hs situation
The situation for Mr H wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr H. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr H had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, AMG.Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr H to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr H, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued 
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if then deemed suitable.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr H still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Based on his age, circumstances and uncertainty about 
when he would retire (which Ill come on to later), its my view that he wouldve been better 
off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF because of the higher level of income it would 
pay at age 65.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that AMG shouldve started its advice process 
by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr H and to only 
recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best interests, 
as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Transfer analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction.
The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time AMG advised Mr H. 
This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable 
to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on 
the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits 
offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the alternative 
pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age (or other 
selected age)  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will 
achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension payable by the DB 
pension scheme.
AMG calculated the following estimated benefits and critical yield figures for the BSPS and 
PPF: 
Scheme At age 65 based on taking 
a full pensionAt age 65 based on 
taking a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-free 
cash Critical yield
BSPS £14,403 6.54%
BSPS Not calculated Not calculated
PPF £11,213 5.10%
PPF £8,978 plus tax-free cash 
of £59,8524.88%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time AMG 
advised Mr H that the BSPS2 would, at age 65, pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF 
but lower than the BSPS, so the benefit and critical yield figures for the BSPS2 likely fell 
somewhere in between the figures above.In its suitability report AMG stated the critical yield figures but didnt express its view on 
whether it thought they were achievable. But it did state, in reference to Mr H, You are 
comfortable with these growth rates but understand it will be dependent upon on the 
investment risk you take with regards to the funds and the level of return is not guaranteed. 
In the fact find document it was noted that Mr H was a first-time investor. And he was also 
determined to have a Low Risk profile. So Im not convinced he had the necessary 
expertise to be able to form a view on the achievability of the critical yield figures and, 
therefore, how he was apparently comfortable with this.
AMGs recommendation to Mr H was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. 
In response to our investigators assessment, AMG expressed concern about this Service 
referring to discount rates when deciding complaints about pension transfers because there 
wasnt any regulatory requirement for it to refer to these when it advised Mr H. In its view, 
the discount rates dont have any relevance in assessing the suitability of its advice.
I agree with AMG that businesses weren't required to refer to discount rates when giving 
pension transfer advice. But I consider that they provide a useful indication of what growth 
rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this 
case. The discount rates we refer to are based on a typical investment spread across shares 
and bonds. Over the last thirty years, the bond component in the discount rates has 
increased to reflect the more cautious approach typically being taken when members 
transfer a large number of years of DB qualifying service. The closest discount rate which 
I'm able to refer to and published by this Service for the period before October 2017 is 4.7% 
based on Mr H taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. Furthermore, the 
FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per 
year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr H's 
Low Risk attitude to risk and the investment timeframe to age 65. Based on these factors, I 
think the critical yield figures meant that there was limited scope to match the benefits likely 
payable by the BSPS2, let alone exceed them. There would usually be no point relinquishing 
safeguarded benefits in order to stand still, given the risk that the transfer might 
underperform. So, from an economic point of view, its questionable whether there was a 
reasonable prospect that Mr H would be financially better off by transferring on a like-for-like 
basis when compared to the scheme pension. I think the figures show that there was a 
strong possibility Mr H would be worse off at age 65 by transferring to the PPP.
Notwithstanding the above, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr H was seeking to 
take benefits earlier than age 65. Theres reference in the suitability report that he was 
looking to access benefits at age 60 at the latest. If that was the case then I wouldve 
expected AMG to also calculate the critical yield figures at age 60 to enable Mr H to make an 
informed decision. But it inexplicably only calculated and presented the figures at age 65 in 
the suitability report. I think this is a material oversight because the figures at age 60 
wouldve been higher (compared to at age 65) due to the shorter investment timeframe and 
impact of the initial advice charge on the required growth rate. This means that Mr H wasnt 
provided accurate information about the level of investment growth required to match the 
scheme pension if he took benefits at age 60. In my view, this oversight further undermines 
the case for a pension transfer at that time.Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B. A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Hs recorded 
objectives.
Mr Hs objectives
Based on the fact find document and suitability report, Mr H had several objectives regarding 
his safeguarded benefits, which I think can be distilled into three broad areas, summarised 
as follows:
Control: He was concerned about the longevity of Tata Steel and that the value of 
his safeguarded benefits could be transferred to the PPF, leading to a reduction in 
the level of benefits he would receive when he retired. Due to these concerns, he 
wanted control over his pension benefits by transferring away;
 
Flexibility and early retirement: He wanted the flexibility to retire early and 
preferably no later than age 60 and, at that point, be able to draw variable levels of 
income taking into account his retirement income from his Aviva DC pension plan 
and State pension; and
Death benefits: He wanted to ensure that, in the event of his earlier death, any 
unused pension benefits be passed on to his family, but this wasnt a priority because 
of the existing cover he already had in place.
I recognise that Mr Hs safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on AMG to provide expert, balanced information and advice, 
taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could then make 
an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial 
advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or 
DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, AMG was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options. 
In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to 
facilitate the transaction.
Control objective
Its clear that one of Mr Hs main motivations for considering a pension transfer was due to 
his concerns about the BSPS and the risk it might fall into the PPF. In its suitability report 
AMG referenced Mr Hs concerns about the BSPS as follows: You are not trusting of your 
employer as you have said things have changed so considerably over the last 24 months. 
The ongoing stability of your pension is causing you concern and therefore want it reviewed.
I accept that such concerns were common among steelworkers at the time, and that it 
wouldve been a major motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can understand 
why Mr H wanted to have control over his benefits by transferring to a PPP. 
That being said, AMGs advice was provided in February 2018, after the Time to Choose 
pack had been issued to members. I think that the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved and the BSPS2 was 
being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most situations that were 
higher than PPF benefits. AMG stated in the suitability report that the current indication is 
that the BSPS 2 scheme will be set up. So it seems it agrees that the risk of a transfer to the 
PPF had reduced by that point.
In any event, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an outcome for Mr H to avoid at all 
costs. Ill explain why. The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat 
scheme to protect members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a 
minimum level of benefits. The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending 
on his age on transfer to the PPF, Mr H could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his 
scheme pension, although this would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates 
under the PPF. This contrasted with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a 
minimum level of benefits payable. At the time of AMGs recommendation, the PPFs 
financial position remained robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the 
financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve removed any immediate concerns Mr H had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to an alternative 
scheme before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any 
immediate concern about options disappearing for Mr H or that there was an urgency to 
transfer to a PPP at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF. 
If Mr H was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why, as a Low Risk 
investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited 
downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt 
make sense to me and suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to 
understand the features, risks and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. 
In summary, I think that AMG failed to adequately allay Mr Hs misapprehensions and that 
he therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position regarding 
the security of his benefits under the BSPS2 and PPF options.
Flexibility and early retirement objective 
Mr Hs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 10 years and 8 months qualifying service, 
represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. His other savings 
and investments included cash savings of about £10,000 and benefits built up in his Aviva 
DC pension plan. Taking this into account, I think its fair to say that when Mr H came to 
retire, he would be reliant, in some part, on the value of his BSPS benefits to generate a 
minimum level of core retirement income to support his standard of living in retirement. 
It was recorded that Mr H wanted the flexibility to retire early and preferably no later than age 
60 and, at that point, be able to draw variable levels of income taking into account his 
retirement income from his Aviva DC pension plan and State pension. But flexibility isnt an 
objective in itself. The suitability report, for example, states that the PPP would give Mr H the 
flexibility to take a variable income instead of a fixed income but didnt explain why this was 
so important. And it wasnt explained why he didnt want a fixed or guaranteed retirement 
income stream. In my view, theres no real evidence that Mr H required irregular lump sums, 
variable income or staggered income during retirement. This is supported by the fact that 
AMG failed to establish Mr Hs target income figure and how this might change over the course of his retirement (such as more income in the early years and less in later years). 
Rather, the suitability report simply stated, You have stated that you would currently like to 
retire around age 60 but this is just your preference and will be dependent on income and 
expenditure at that time.
Im concerned that AMG didnt establish Mr Hs target retirement income need. In my view, 
where a client has a retirement income need  as Mr H did  the starting point is to establish 
a realistic target income based on the clients likely fixed outgoings, discretionary spending 
plans and excess income for saving. This information would then reveal the core income 
required to cover the expected expenditure from the target retirement age  and this would 
then provide a basis for the recommendation. But in Mr Hs case, AMG didnt do this. Rather, 
it seems that it thought it was reasonable to defer establishing Mr Hs income need until he 
retired. I dont think this approach was appropriate because without understanding Mr Hs 
retirement income need its difficult to conclude that the pension transfer was clearly 
demonstrated to be in his best interests.
Notwithstanding this point, I think its important to note that the further away from retirement 
an individual is, the harder it is to establish a realistic income figure and whether early 
retirement would in fact be possible. And in Mr Hs case, being 36 at the time of the advice, I 
think that even if AMG had attempted to establish Mr Hs retirement income need, it wouldve 
been difficult to calculate an accurate figure with such a substantial timeframe until age 60. 
With such a time horizon until pension benefits could be accessed, it makes the case for a 
pension transfer  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement  more difficult to 
justify. 
Had AMG advised Mr H to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable, 
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income 
and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 36. I think this is a key point. This 
approach wouldve entailed significantly less risk for Mr H compared to the pension transfer 
at that time. Mr H cannot access money in the PPP until age 55 at the earliest. So I dont 
think there was any need to transfer at that time, especially given the critical yield figures 
attached to the transaction. Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and 
longevity risks associated with providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension 
scheme to Mr H for the period until he retired. It also led to Mr H concentrating all his private 
retirement provision on a DC basis which offered no guarantees but was based entirely on 
investment performance and charges. I think the risks associated with the pension transfer 
were inconsistent with Mr Hs Low Risk profile.
If it was a genuine requirement that Mr H required access to flexible benefits from age 60 
then I make the following observation. He had been an active member of the Tata Steel DC 
pension scheme since April 2017. He and Tata Steel were, in total, contributing 16% of his 
gross annual income of about £44,000 into his DC pension plan every year, which was about 
£7,000 in monetary terms. This would increase in line with increases in his salary. It appears 
that Mr H intended to continue working in the same role for Tata Steel until he retired at age 
60. And in the event he left that employment before then, I think its likely that hed find 
alternative employment and, with the legal requirements of auto-enrolment, would join a 
different DC pension scheme and pay a minimum of 8% of his earnings into it. 
So over the 24-year period to age 60, its likely that Mr H would build up significant DC 
pension savings. Based on contributions alone, I estimate that about £170,000 would be 
invested in his DC pension plan over that timeframe if he continued to be employed by Tata 
Steel. This ignores likely increases in his salary (and therefore higher pension contributions) 
and investment growth.So if Mr H did have a need for flexible benefits from age 60, I think this couldve been met in 
the first instance by using his likely significant DC pension savings. This course of action 
wouldve enabled Mr H to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 to provide 
guaranteed, escalating income to meet his core income need in retirement from age 65. The 
estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable at age 65 was £14,403 for the BSPS 
and £11,213 for the PPF. I think its likely that the revalued pension payable by the BSPS2 at 
age 65 likely fell somewhere in between these figures. And if it turned out the DC pension 
savings didnt provide adequate income for the full five-year period between age 60 and 65, 
Mr H could take his benefits from BSPS2 at some point in between, meaning the early 
retirement factor wouldnt be as great as at age 60.
The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested above may have enabled Mr H to achieve 
his flexibility objective from age 60 but with significantly less risk. I havent seen any 
evidence that AMG adequately considered, presented and discounted this alternative 
blended approach to Mr H to enable him to make an informed decision.
In summary, the contemporaneous evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for 
Mr H at age 36 to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time by transferring to a 
PPP. I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr H 
gaining any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to 
the BSPS2.
Death benefits objective
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course, when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. However, while death benefits might be 
important for members such as Mr H, there generally shouldnt be a disproportionate 
emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
AMG recorded that, in the event of his earlier death, Mr H wanted any unused pension 
benefits to be passed on to his family. The suitability report stated, You would like to ensure 
that your funds are an inheritable asset for [Mr Hs wife] upon your death with the ability to 
include provision for [Mr Hs children] as well. But it then went on to note that the provision 
of death benefits wasnt a priority because of the existing life cover Mr H already had in 
place.
That existing cover was mainly through Mr Hs employment. He had death in service life 
cover based on a multiple of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £128,000 
would be paid in the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable 
regardless of whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. 
The value of Mr Hs Aviva DC plan would also be payable to his nominated beneficiaries, the 
value of which would increase over time with 16% of his earnings being invested into that 
scheme annually. In addition, Mr H and his wife had joint life and critical illness designed to 
repay their mortgage in the event either of them died before the end of the term. So I agree 
that he had a reasonable level of existing life cover in place relative to his earnings and 
liabilities.
While the provision of death benefits wasnt a primary motivating factor for the pension 
transfer, I think its important to highlight the following. 
The existing death benefits shouldnt be underestimated. In the event of Mr Hs earlier death,                  
the BSPS2 wouldve paid his wife a guaranteed spouses pension based on 50% of his 
revalued pension which escalated annually.The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under age 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after age 75 the 
benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that 
immediately following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr H withdrew 
retirement benefits, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value until at 
least age 55. But Mr H was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life 
expectancy into his 80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a 
pension transfer was a suitable course of action at that time. Withdrawing money from the 
PPP to meet his income and lump sum needs possibly from age 60 onwards would likely 
mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could 
be much smaller than expected. 
If Mr H wanted to provide a lump sum to his family on his death, then life cover couldve 
achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling him to maintain 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that Mr H had disposable income available every 
month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay for life cover to achieve the death 
lump sum objective. Pure life cover for a defined term is generally cheap and some cover 
may have been affordable for Mr H given he was then aged 36 and recorded as being in 
good health. But, in any case, as noted above, Mr H already had some cover in place.
While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr H about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr H had no health 
issues at the time AMG advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him 
transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit.
If properly informed, would Mr H have transferred anyway?
For the reasons explained above, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was clearly 
demonstrated to be in Mr Hs best interests. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of AMGs advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr H, if placed in a 
fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr H, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on AMG, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. 
Mr H might have chosen to transfer against advice on the basis of his concerns. However, 
bearing in mind that many other members transferred to the BSPS2 even though such 
concerns were widely held, and bearing in mind also his lack of investment experience and 
Low Risk attitude to risk, I dont think, on balance, that he wouldve insisted on transferring. 
Given Mr Hs reliance on AMG, I think its likely he wouldve accepted a recommendation for 
the BSPS2 had it advised him to take that course of action.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for AMG to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr H wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. While some information on the 
benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by February 2018 the risk 
of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent. I think AMG shouldve 
considered the BSPS2 as a viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think its fair to 
consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Given the timeframe, Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2018 
that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr H. And so I think, given the lack of clarity 
surrounding when Mr H would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based 
on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of 
benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should 
be carried out. For clarity, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement 
age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
AMG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
AMG should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress rather 
than using third party actuarial software. This is because in its  Dear CEO letter of                            
19 May 2023, the FCA expressed its concerns about businesses using such software. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr Hs Representative and this Service 
upon completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, AMG should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;if Mr H accepts AMGs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, AMG may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, AMG should pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
its unsuitable recommendation.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AMG Wealth Solutions 
LLP to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would additionally 
require AMG Wealth Solutions LLP to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
AMG Wealth Solutions LLP to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
AMG Wealth Solutions LLP pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H. 
If Mr H accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on AMG Wealth 
Solutions LLP. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can 
accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman