DRN-3657269
The complaint and what happened
Mr A complains Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse over £14,000 he lost when he fell victim to 
a scam. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied Monzo ought to have intervened on 
the fifth payment towards the scam, as it was unusual and uncharacteristic for the account. 
She asked it to reimburse losses from that point. However, she also found that Mr A was 
partly responsible for his losses, particularly as he taken out a loan to fund the investment 
but hadnt been honest about its purpose, so she reduced compensation by 50%. 
Mr A agreed the outcome, but Monzo didnt. It said Mr A didnt have any chargeback rights 
and it doesnt think it was the point of loss, as funds had been transferred to Mr As own 
wallets. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background above, I have read and considered whats 
been provided. Having done so, and recognising this is a finely balanced case, I broadly 
agree with the investigators conclusions for the following reasons:
Mr A authorised the transactions. Whilst he didnt intend for his money to go to 
scammers, he is initially presumed liable for the loss. There also doesnt appear to be 
any dispute he has been scammed, there were scam warnings about the businesses 
he was investing through in the months following these transactions. 
Monzo is correct that there are no chargeback rights for the situation in which Mr A 
found himself, and so I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable when not attempting 
a chargeback. 
Monzo is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments or declined them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams. And payments going to 
a customers own wallet  if Monzo actually knew that at the time  doesnt mean a 
customer isnt at risk of financial harm. The regulator and Action Fraud have been 
reporting on this type of scam since mid-2018, intelligence Id expect Monzo to take 
account of when carrying out transactions.
I have looked at the operation of Mr As account, recognising it was only opened a 
short time before the transactions in question. That means identifying Mr As usual 
spending patterns would have been difficult. I can see that he predominately used 
the account for investment trading and buying crypto assets from various different 
providers, which arent subject to this complaint. And its this which makes the case 
finely balanced.  However, the amount Mr A was paying to crypto assets increased in 
a very short space of time, often an indicator of a scam. I therefore agree with the 
investigator that Monzos systems ought to have triggered when making the first 
payment for £5,000. Indeed, it appears Monzo was concerned as Mr A was provided 
with a screen at this juncture asking him what the payment was for and was shown a 
warning about investment scams. But the warning was very general in nature and 
pointed to issues not apparent in this scam. And there was no mention of crypto 
assets at all. So I dont think it went far enough as an intervention or a scam warning, 
in these particular circumstances. 
Had Monzo gone further and asked Mr A about the payments, I have no reason to 
doubt he would have explained what he was doing. In saying that, Im aware he 
wasnt honest when taking out the loan, but Im mindful that investment wont have 
been an option offered for lending (and Ill be taking that into account below). Monzo 
could have drawn on its knowledge about the high-risk associated with crypto assets, 
the potential for fraud and provided a scam warning, particularly as being contacted 
out of the blue and downloading screen sharing software are hallmarks of a scam. 
Had it done so more meaningfully, Im satisfied Mr A would have looked into the 
opportunity further, and likely would have come across the negative/scam reviews 
about the merchants. Im therefore satisfied a more relevant and meaningful warning 
from Monzo would likely have exposed the scam and caused him to stop investing, 
thereby preventing further loss of £11,030. 
I agree Mr A is also responsible for his loss. It doesnt appear he carried out much 
due diligence, if any, before deciding to invest, even when investing higher amounts.  
Its reasonable for independent research to carried to out to be satisfied an 
investment opportunity is genuine. And when taking out the loan he wasnt honest, or 
at the very least, didnt pause or question when finding investment wasnt a lending 
purpose.  I agree a reduction of 50% is reasonable as Im satisfied both parties are 
responsible for the loss.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to reimburse Mr 
A £5,515, representing 50% of his losses from the fifth disputed payment. I also require it to 
add 8% simple interest per year to that sum from the date of the payments to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman