DRN-2982760
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr H. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 and which covered a store credit 
account. The PPI started a few months after the account was opened, and AXA says it was 
sold by phone.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr H has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr H says he wasnt aware that he had PPI and he never asked for it. So Ive thought about 
whether its likely the PPI was added without Mr Hs consent. 
From what we know of AXAs processes at the time, the records suggest that it was added 
during a phone call. Given that this was so long ago,  I wouldnt expect AXA to have more 
detailed records of what happened and what was said. But I can see also its possible that 
the PPI was added without any such a phone call, either by mistake or deliberately.  
The main problem is that this all happened about 20 years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember everything that happened that long ago. So it may 
not be fair for me to rely just on what they now remember as happening  it might be that 
Mr H did have a conversation and agree to the PPI, but has simply forgotten.
It wouldnt be fair to make AXA prove it didnt act wrongly  its a long-standing principle 
that someone doesnt usually have to prove they are innocent. Instead, fairly, I would 
need reasonable evidence to show that AXA probably did do something wrong. And I 
cant say that there is that kind of evidence. 
So I dont have strong enough evidence to uphold the complaint on that point. 
Assuming a call did take place, its unlikely AXA recommended the PPI as being suitable for 
Mr Hs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It would have been for Mr H to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mr H clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  I dont know what 
would have been said on the phone call.
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But in 
Mr Hs circumstances at the time, even if hed been given all the necessary information, I 
dont think its likely to have made a difference to his decision. I say this because its fairly 
likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than his full employer sick pay lasted. And it 
would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also it would have 
put off the time hed have had to fall back on any other means he had to pay his ongoing 
living costs, as well as this credit bill. And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any 
of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, and better information 
probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Mr H took the PPI.
Overall, I havent found that the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman