DRN-1851918
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and the way they managed credit card his 
account.
What happened
Mr R took out a credit card with Barclays in 2009. Throughout the time Mr R had this credit 
card, hes had several credit limit increases and decreases.
In January 2014, Mr Rs limit was raised from £15,000 to £16,600. This was then reduced to 
£4,200 in January 2017 after Mr R made a large bulk payment to reduce the amount he 
owed. In February 2019, this limit was increased again to £6,300. 
Mr R was unhappy with Barclays decision to increase his credit limit in both 2014 and 2019, 
so he raised a complaint. He thought Barclays had acted irresponsibly as he thought it was 
clear he was struggling financially at the time. He explained hed missed a number of 
payments and had been over his limit regularly, so didnt think Barclays had acted fairly 
when providing him with the opportunity to put himself in further debt. He was also unhappy 
Barclays had failed to recognise he was suffering with his mental health at the same time 
and felt it was their responsibility to notice this and provide him with additional support. 
Because of this, he wanted the interest charged on his account to be refunded and to be 
compensated for the stress hed been caused by debts he thought Barclays actions had 
contributed towards.
Barclays didnt agree. They thought theyd increased Mr Rs limits fairly, and in line with their 
terms and conditions. They explained theyd conducted credit checks as well as considering 
the way Mr R managed his account in the months prior to the increase. As theyd wrote to Mr 
R before increasing his limit, giving him the opportunity to decline it, they didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. They also explained they hadnt been provided with any evidence to 
show that Mr R was struggling with his mental health and so they werent able implement 
suitable reasonable adjustments. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr 
R was unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained that we were 
only able to look at events that had happened within six years of them happening, or within 
three years of when Mr R was aware there was a cause for complaint. So, he explained only 
the increases in 2014 and 2019 were able to be considered by our service. And having 
considered these, he thought Barclays had acted responsibly. He thought theyd conducted 
the relevant checks wed expect to see. And as theyd wrote to Mr R before the increase 
giving him the chance to opt out, he thought theyd acted in line with their terms and 
conditions.
He also didnt think it would be fair to expect Barclays to assume Mr R was suffering with his 
mental health without being told this was the case. So, he didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further. Mr R didnt agree with this view, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Im aware that Mr R is unhappy with Barclays decision to provide him with a credit card in 
the first place. And the way Barclays have managed his account from then on. But Im only 
able to consider events that happened up to six years from the date Mr R brought his 
complaint to us, or three years from when he wouldve been reasonably aware he had cause 
to complaint. Mr R opened this credit card account in 2009, so more than six years from 
when he brought his complaint to us. And as he is complaining about limit increased from 
2012, I think he was reasonably aware he was unhappy about being giving the card from 
this date. So, this decision has focused on the limit increases Barclays applied, and the 
actions they took managing his account, from the start of 2014.
First, I want to recognise the impact that Mr R has suffered, arising from this complaint. Ive 
no doubt that Mr R was struggling financially at times during the period hes held his credit 
card account with Barclays. And I appreciate this was due to, and made worse by, his 
mental health at the time. So, I understand why Mr R attributes some of his suffering to the 
actions taken by Barclays and why he thinks they couldve done more to support him. But for 
me to agree that Barclays have done something wrong, Id need to be sure the actions they 
took when increasing Mr Rs credit limits had failed to adhere to their terms and conditions or 
were unfair and unreasonable. And, in this situation I dont think they were.
In January 2014, Barclays increased Mr Rs credit limit from £15,000 to £16,600. In the 
months leading up to this increase, Ive seen that Mr R had stayed within his credit limit. Mr 
R had also regularly made monthly payments above the calculated minimum payment and 
just two months previously had brought his credit balance down to £75.47. Although I can 
understand Mr Rs point raised about his spending levels in November and December 2013, 
these payments still ensured Mr R stayed within his credit limit. And the reason for a credit 
card account is to allow customers the opportunity to spend up to that limit should they wish 
to do so. So, I dont think the spending in these two months meant that Barclays shouldve 
been aware of any financial difficulty Mr R had, or that he was suffering with his mental 
health.
Ive seen Barclays completed a credit check before increasing Mr Rs limit and compared 
this against the way he managed his account to create an internal score on Mr Rs likelihood 
to default. In doing so, Barclays determined Mr R would be able to have an increase in limit 
with minimal risk. Its not my role to criticise Barclays for their internal processes or how they 
calculate their decision to lend to customers. Its my role to decide whether they completed 
checks that I think were proportionate to the level of the increase and that their decision was 
made fairly. And at this time, I think they were so I dont think it would be fair for me to say 
they did anything wrong.
In February 2019, Barclays increased Mr Rs credit limit from £4,200 to £6,300. Im aware Mr 
Rs credit limit was reduced significantly in 2017 after hed struggle to bring his credit 
amount below the limit for a period of time. But, crucially, in the six months prior to Mr Rs 
limit increase in February 2019, Ive seen he managed his account well. Ive seen he made 
several payments that were way above the minimum payment calculated that month. And 
hed remained under his credit limit throughout that time. Ive seen Barclays also completed 
another credit check to decide whether a limit increase would be reasonable. So, when considering this together, I think Barclays acted fairly and completed the relevant checks I 
wouldve expected. I dont think there were any signs to suggest that Mr Rs limit shouldnt 
be increased, so I cant say that Barclays acted unfairly by doing so. 
Ive also seen a template letter that was sent to Mr R on 9 January 2019, before his limit was 
increased. This gave Mr R the opportunity to decline the increase. Ive seen no evidence 
that Mr R did so. But I can see Mr R utilised the additional credit he had available, so I think 
its likely he was aware of the increase and wanted to use it. Although I understand Mr R 
was suffering with his mental health at the time, I dont think Barclays couldve been aware 
of this so were fair to continue with the increase when they had no rejection from Mr R.
Although I understand Mr R believes Barclays shouldve factored in the way he managed his 
account over the previous years, where hed missed payments and had been over his credit 
limit regularly, I dont think this is the case. A customers financial situation can change 
drastically depending on their circumstances and it would be unfair to deem a customer 
ineligible for lending if it was reasonably clear they were now able to afford the amount. In 
this situation, I think the way Mr R managed his account in the previous six months 
suggested a significant change in his ability to afford his credit card payments. So, although 
I appreciate Mr Rs comments, I dont agree that the way he managed his account two years 
before the limit increase in 2019 meant Barclays shouldve took the decision not to offer a 
limit at that time. So, I cant say they acted unfairly.
Ive also considered Mr Rs belief that Barclays shouldve been able to identify his mental 
health struggles from the way he managed his account and offered him the relevant support. 
But I dont think Barclays were able to do this fairly without being made aware by Mr R 
himself. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook states that "A firm should 
assume a consumer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to be made, unless 
the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should know, or reasonably 
suspects, that the consumer lacks capacity". 
I can understand why Mr R feels the way he managed account suggested there was an 
underlying problem. There were times where his spending was erratic, and he struggled to 
stay within his credit limit. But there were also times where Mr R was able to make larger 
payments to reduce his credit limit significantly and crucially, Mr R remained engaged with 
his account throughout the time hes held it. So, I dont think Barclays had enough 
information from Mr Rs account management alone to suggest he had a vulnerability that 
needed addressing. 
That being said, I understand it would also have been difficult for Mr R to have made 
Barclays aware of the problems he was facing at the time due to the nature of the mental 
health difficulties he faced. But for the purpose of this decision, I must consider whether 
Barclays couldve reasonably done anything more to assist Mr R with the information they 
had available. And I dont think they couldve.
So, although I do appreciate the difficulties Mr R has faced personally and financially, I dont 
think Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably when increasing his credit limits. And I dont 
think they had enough information that wouldve allowed them to recognise Mr R as a 
vulnerable customer and offer any additional support. So, I dont think they need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman