DRN-1422189
 
complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. For simplicity Ill refer to the business as Halifax for the majority of 
the rest of this decision. 
background
Mr L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1988. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents available 
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party has been able to 
provide any documentation as these events happened over 31 years ago. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr L has said, including that he was told us the mortgage 
was conditional upon him taking out the PPI policy. On the other hand, Halifax has defended 
its sale of the policy in this regard. Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Halifax didnt 
make Mr L aware the PPI was optional. Whilst acknowledging that things could have 
happened just as Mr L said, considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So having 
considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that Halifax 
wouldve made Mr L aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even 
though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
Ive not been provided a policy document from the time of the sale. But Halifax has given us 
a policy document from soon after the time of sale. Having thought carefully about this, I think its most likely that the terms and conditions described in that document are broadly 
similar to the one sold to Mr L. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr L. This meant Halifax needed to take reasonable 
steps to find out about his needs and make sure the policy was suitable for him. 
I think Halifaxs recommendation was right for Mr L based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr L wasnt eligible for the policy. And it doesnt 
look like he wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, 
for example, any unusual employment terms or pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr L said he wouldve got some sick pay from his employer if he was unwell. But 
whilst his initial sick pay was good it dropped significantly after six months. Mr L has 
told us he had some savings at that time. But Ive considered that he chose to protect 
those savings at that time by not taking a smaller mortgage. The PPI policy wouldve 
covered Mr L for up to 24 months if he couldnt work through accident or sickness or 
for up to 12 months if he lost his job. And it wouldve paid out in addition to any sick 
pay or redundancy payment he mightve got, and for longer than his employer would 
have paid him at his full rate of pay, and would have further protected any savings he 
had at that time. So, considering all of this, and the potentially serious consequences 
of defaulting on a loan secured on his home, I think he couldve found the policy 
useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have been affordable. 
 
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr L.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr L, Halifax also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy, so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Halifax gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But for the 
same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
I know Mr L feels strongly and has put time and effort into his complaint. I realise hell be 
disappointed by the outcome. I know that Mr L will also feel disappointed because he has 
had other separate complaint upheld for him. I need to say that each case is decided on its 
own merits. 
Its difficult to decide a complaint when I know so little about the sale. But on balance, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr L has lost out because of anything Halifax mayve 
done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman