DRN-1472897
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2009 in connection with 
her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs H took out a PPI policy called Mortgage Repayments Cover alongside a further 
advance which was added to her mortgage. The policy was for Mrs H and she paid a 
monthly amount for the policy. She took this policy out as part of a package called Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) which offered accident, sickness, unemployment, 
critical illness and life cover. Mrs H only bought life cover and unemployment cover. In 
this decision Im only considering the Mortgage Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the 
TMPP as thats what Mrs H has complained about.
Mrs H complained that she didnt know the policy was optional; she says she was told she 
had to have it to get the further advance. She said it did not provide life cover for her 
husband. So she concludes the policy was mis-sold.
BOS said the further advance was taken out in her sole name, so the PPI policy only 
covered her. It rejected her complaint.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like she was 
offered an optional policy and it was suitable for her needs when it was taken out. Our 
adjudicator said the information might have been clearer but concludes Mrs H probably 
would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mrs H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether BOS made Mrs H aware the policy was optional. She said she 
didnt know it was an optional product and she thought she had to have PPI to get the 
mortgage. I looked at the PPI application form which BOS said Mrs H completed. I could 
see it was a separate form which dealt only with PPI. As it was a separate form, I can 
reasonably assume she didnt have to complete it at all and so could have declined PPI. So 
I think the policy was presented as an optional product.
I also noted that Mrs H did not buy all the elements of the TMPP  so she most likely 
decided to opt only for the unemployment and life cover. This would suggest Mrs H was 
more likely aware the policy was optional as it was tailored to her needs. Mrs H also 
mentioned she was concerned that the policy did not cover her husband for life cover. 
However, the mortgage was only in Mrs Hs name, so as she was solely liable for it, it is not 
surprising that the policy would only cover Mrs H.
BOS said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for Mrs 
Hs needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for Mrs H because she was eligible for the 
PPI policy, it seems the policy was affordable for her at the time and, it doesnt look like 
she was affected by the main exclusions and limitations in the policy.
I looked into her financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy was 
still suitable for her.
Mrs H said she was in full time employment and could get employee benefits if she was 
off sick or couldnt work due to an accident; she told us she had no savings. 
However, having decided she wanted PPI and most likely chose to have it, I think Mrs H 
probably thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to her in addition to her employee 
benefits. I say this because the PPI could have paid out for longer than her employee 
benefits at a time when she might have needed it most. So I dont think her employee 
benefits made the policy unsuitable.
Mrs H said she could rely on her family and friends to pay her mortgage repayments. I do 
understand the point she is making, but there was no guarantee she could still rely on this 
support at some unknown point in the future of the mortgage term.
I also looked at whether BOS gave Mrs H enough clear information about the policy. In 
respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set these out. But 
having said that, I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to her in 
the meeting. So as Ive decided she chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and 
affordable for her, I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and 
benefits would have put her off from taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions and limitations were brought to Mrs Hs attention. But as 
she wasnt affected by the main exclusions and limitations to the policy, I dont think she 
would have decided not to buy PPI even if shed been given a full list of the exclusions.
Ive also thought about whether BOS needs to give Mrs H some of the commission she paid 
back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Hs mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008, they dont apply. So BOS doesnt need to refund 
any of the commission Mrs H paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including what she said about the policy not 
being shown as optional and her finances being enough at the time. But, taking everything 
into account, I think she probably was aware PPI was optional. I think that it was suitable 
for her financial circumstances and I think she had enough information to make a decision 
about it. So as her points dont change my decision, Im not going to uphold this complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman