DRN-2434141
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs M hold with Barclays Bank UK Plc. Theyre 
unhappy that an application for a further advance was cancelled after an offer had been 
issued, and then refused on affordability grounds when the application was re-submitted.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr and Mrs M have a repayment mortgage, and a connected mortgage current account 
(MCA). At the time of the events giving rise to the complaint, the mortgage was on a fixed 
rate of 1.99% that was due to end on 30 September 2018, whilst the MCA was on Barclays 
standard variable rate (SVR), which was 5.24% at the time.
In July 2018, Mr and Mrs M, after speaking with a mortgage advisor, applied for:
a new fixed rate of 1.93% and a change of term on the main mortgage, and 
a further advance (also on the 1.93% fixed rate) to pay off the MCA. 
Barclays approved both and offers were issued for each transaction. The term change and 
new rate went through on the main mortgage on 1 October 2018 as planned, but the further 
advance didnt, leaving the MCA open and attracting interest at the SVR. 
When Mr and Mrs M queried this, Barclays told them the further advance application had 
been cancelled in August 2018 after a phone call from Mr M. Mr and Mrs M said that in the 
call in August, Mr M had simply told the bank he was delaying making an interest payment to 
the MCA until nearer October 2018, not cancel the further advance to repay the MCA 
altogether. 
Barclays agreed to reconsider the application afresh, but in the meantime, Mr and Mrs M 
had taken out another credit commitment to finance a new car. The application was deemed 
unaffordable and refused; the MCA remains in existence, attracting interest at the SVR 
instead of the fixed rate of 1.93% that would have been charged on the further advance if it 
had gone ahead. That is the gist of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint
Barclays offered Mr and Mrs M £750 compensation, but didnt agree that cancelling the 
further advance had been an error. It stood by its advisors recollection that Mr M had 
cancelled the further advance application in August 2018. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its not the role of the ombudsman service to interfere in decisions lenders make on whether 
and how much theyre willing to lend to people; even where, as here, the further advance is 
intended to repay an existing secured debt to the same creditor. 
If Barclays considered the re-submitted application for the further advance unaffordable 
because of the new car finance Mr and Mrs M had taken out in the interim, theres no proper 
basis for me to second guess that judgement. 
But in any event, thats not what the complaint turns on. The second further advance 
application was only necessary because the first had been cancelled after an offer had been 
issued. The complaint turns on whether Barclays cancelled the first application in error, so 
its all about what was said during Mr Ms phone conversation with Barclays in August 2018.
What I have here is two very different versions of what was discussed during that call, and 
the call itself wasnt recorded.  The difficulty I have is that without being able to listen to it to 
determine whose recollection is the more reliable, I cant find either version to be more 
persuasive than the other. 
The problem there is that as Mr and Mrs M are the party bringing the complaint, their version 
of events has to be more likely than Barclays if Im to uphold the complaint. All I can say 
from what both parties have said and provided is that Mr and Mrs Ms version is, at best, no 
more than equally as likely as Barclays and that isnt enough for me to find in their favour, 
however much they think I should.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs M to decide if, on further 
reflection, they wish to accept the offer of £750 that Barclays made in its final response. 
If they do, they can contact Barclays directly so that it can send them the payment. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman