DRN-3158885
The complaint
Miss U complains about a decision by American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) 
not to uphold a claim under the chargeback scheme or section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (section 75). 
What happened
Miss U made a restaurant booking on 4 December 2020 for 6 December 2020 and the
restaurant required a £240 payment up front, for the cost of the meal. Miss U advised
our service that she booked for 6pm but received no confirmation that the booking had gone
through, so she booked again, this time for 8:30pm. Miss U advised that this time she
received confirmation of the booking.
When Miss U found out that she had been charged twice, she contacted the restaurant
who declined to refund the first £240 charge. Miss U contacted Amex for assistance, and
they processed a chargeback request on 11 December 2020. Amex closed the chargeback
on 22 January 2021 in the restaurants favour, which led to Miss U complaining.
AMEX sent out their final response dated 9 February 2021, in which they didnt uphold Miss
Us complaint. AMEX confirmed that the chargeback they had processed had been
unsuccessful and had been performed fairly.
Our investigator didnt think it AMEX had done anything wrong, but Miss U remained 
unhappy and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss U, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
chargeback or a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that 
in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss U made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
In order for a claim to succeed under chargeback or section 75 there would have to be 
evidence of either a misrepresentation or a breach of contract. Im not persuaded there is.
The restaurants terms and conditions said that refunds couldnt be provided if the consumer 
didnt show up. Miss U didnt show up for the 6pm booking and didnt tell the restaurant she 
wasnt attending at that time. As Miss U booked the restaurant only a couple of days before 
she was due to attend she would never have been entitled to cancel the booking as there 
was a 72-hour cancellation policy.
Miss U says she thought the 6pm booking hadnt been confirmed. She says she received a 
booking confirmation for the 8.30pm booking but not for the 6pm booking and she says the 
reservation site states, the Restaurant may provide confirmation of the reservation to 
you.
But there was no obligation for the restaurant to provide a confirmation and the reservation 
site doesnt promise a confirmation, it only says the restaurant may send one. So, whilst I 
can understand Miss Us frustration I dont think it would be fair to suggest the restaurant 
breached its contract. And, in those circumstances, I dont think AMEX were wrong not to 
progress the chargeback claim or raise one under section 75 as I dont think either had a 
reasonable prospect of success.
Miss U has referred us to AMEXs website in which she says they say, The second we spot 
anything unusual in your spending patterns, you'll receive an instant alert. Miss U says 
that AMEX should have identified potential fraud on the account and have sent her an alert. 
There wasnt any fraud on this account as both transactions were made by Miss U and I 
think the algorithms AMEX use to identify unusual spending patterns are for them to decide. 
So, I dont think this means theyve done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman