DRN-4003250
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) caused delay in her taking a new 
interest rate on her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs M has a mortgage with BoI. Sadly her property was very badly damaged in a fire. It was 
then rebuilt following an insurance claim.
Meanwhile, Mrs Ms fixed interest rate came to an end. She asked BoI about a new rate. BoI 
initially refused a new rate, until the property works had been completed. It then agreed a 
new interest rate, and agreed to backdate the rate to June 2022.
Mrs M wasnt happy with that. She felt she should have been allowed to take a rate sooner. 
She said that BoI had caused significant delay, because it hadnt made clear what it would 
need before agreeing a new rate. In particular, it had delayed in sending a valuer to value 
the rebuilt property, and hadnt told Mrs M what documents it would need to see. Mrs M said 
that it had taken a long time, and a lot of stress and effort on her part, to sort things out. She 
wanted the rate backdated further than June 2022, and didnt think the compensation BoI 
offered of £150 was enough.
BoI said that the first time it was aware that the rebuild had been completed and Mrs M had 
moved back into the property was when she called on 21 April 2022  days before her fixed 
rate ended at the end of the month. It said that Mrs M hadnt been able to apply for a rate 
switch online before that, as it had put a hold on the account pending confirmation that the 
property had been satisfactorily repaired. BoI said that before it would allow a rate switch it 
needed a valuation to be carried out, to confirm that the rebuild had been completed 
appropriately and the property was now good security for the lending. 
BoI accepted it didnt tell Mrs M this until 10 May 2022, and that even then its communication 
wasnt as good as it could have been. This was why it had offered £150 compensation, and 
to backdate the new rate to June 2022. But it didnt think it should backdate the rate further 
than that, because it would always have taken some time from April 2022 for its 
requirements to be met and Mrs Ms application to go through. 
Our investigator thought that the offer to backdate the rate to June 2022  but no further  
was fair in all the circumstances. But he thought BoI should increase the compensation to 
£300 to reflect the impact of the delays on Mrs M. BoI didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mrs M had with her property. It must have been a very 
distressing experience and Im glad to hear its now been fully repaired.
When Mrs M told BoI of the fire in 2020, it acknowledged what shed said and asked to be 
kept updated. It appears Mrs M didnt get back in touch with BoI until April 2022, when her 
fixed rate was about to expire.
It was reasonable for BoI to want further information before agreeing a new rate. It wanted to 
confirm that the property had been rebuilt and was again good security for the mortgage. 
This means that BoI could be reassured that it still had security for its lending  and protects 
Mrs M too, since BoI wouldnt tie her into a new rate (including an early repayment charge) 
until it was sure she was able to live in the property and the mortgage would continue.
As Mrs M didnt contact BoI until just before the end of her existing rate, there would never 
have been enough time for her to move from the old rate straight on to a new one. I think 
both parties are responsible for this; BoI should have made clearer to Mrs M when it wrote to 
her in 2020 that until the rebuild was completed she wouldnt be able to apply for a new rate. 
And Mrs M should have kept BoI updated between 2020 and 2022, as it had asked  and 
she could have asked about a new rate more than a few days before the old one expired.
So I dont think it would be fair to backdate the rate beyond June 2022. From the point at 
which Mrs M did contact BoI, in late April, it would always have taken a few weeks to satisfy 
BoI that it could now offer a new rate and to put one in place. 
Putting things right
That means that BoIs offer to ensure that Mrs M was able to take a rate from the range 
available in April, and have the implementation of that rate backdated to June, puts her back 
in the position she would have been in had BoI made clearer in April 2022 what needed to 
happen next.
But it didnt make that clear, as it acknowledges. That led to delay in Mrs Ms application 
being completed. Ive taken into account what both parties have said about this. And Ive 
thought about the impact of the delay on Mrs M in her particular circumstances. The failures 
in communication meant Mrs Ms new rate wasnt in fact implemented for several months. In 
the meantime she spent a lot of time trying to resolve things with BoI, and had to find much 
higher mortgage payments than she otherwise would have done. This was a stressful and 
difficult time, in addition to the inconvenience of spending time trying to resolve matters. 
Implementing a rate that was available in April 2022, backdating its start to June 2022 and 
refunded the extra interest Mrs M paid in the meantime, fairly compensates Mrs M for her 
financial loss. In addition to that, I agree £300 compensation is fair to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In addition to the backdated rate and interest 
refund it has already implemented, Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should increase its offer of 
compensation to £300.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman