DRN-3998559
The complaint
Ms S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited misled her about her cover for existing 
conditions when taking out a private medical insurance policy.
Ms S is represented in this complaint by her husband.
What happened
Ms S was covered under her husbands group private medical insurance policy with AXA 
through his employer. When her husband changed jobs, Ms S wanted to carry on her cover 
with AXA through an individual policy. She took out the new policy in July 2022. 
Ms S later made a claim under the policy as she needed surgery to remove a fibroid. 
Based on the details Ms S gave AXA about her health during the claim, AXA thought Ms S 
had misrepresented information when taking out the policy. It applied a retrospective 
exclusion for fibroids, and turned down Ms Ss claim. Unhappy with this, Ms S brought a 
complaint to this service. She said AXA had made it seem that it would cover her existing 
conditions, so long as she took out the policy within 120 days of her husbands group cover 
ending.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for AXA to conclude that Ms S had misrepresented information about her health, 
and found that AXA had been entitled to apply the exclusion and turn down the claim. Our 
investigator didnt agree with Ms S that AXA had misled her about the cover for existing 
conditions. 
Ms S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ss complaint is that AXA misled her about her cover for existing conditions. However, as 
AXA has alleged misrepresentation, Ive also considered this to see if AXA treated Ms S 
fairly in declining her claim. I also want to consider whether AXAs correspondence would 
have led Ms S to understand that she didnt need to answer AXAs questions accurately. Ive 
therefore considered both points below.
Ive considered the misrepresentation aspect in accordance with the principles set out under 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract.
On 1 June 2022, Ms Ss husband called AXA to obtain a quote on her behalf. He was asked:
Has [Ms S] had treatment in hospital, or consulted with a specialist in the last 12 months?
And
Does she [Ms S] have any ongoing treatment, consultations, investigations or diagnostic 
tests either planned or pending?
Ms Ss husband answered no to the above two questions. This was correct at the time. 
Though AXA advised him that if the answers changed before the policy started, he should let 
it know. Ms S didnt take out the policy at this time.
Later that month, Ms S went abroad. She saw a gynaecologist and was diagnosed with a 
fibroid that required treatment. 
When Ms S returned to the UK, she decided to go ahead with the policy. AXA called Ms S 
on 6 July 2022 and asked:
Can I just confirm, have there been any changes to the way in which you answered any of 
the medical questions when I went through the quotation with you initially?
Ms S said there had been no changes. However, that wasnt correct, as Ms S had since 
seen a specialist and had been diagnosed with a fibroid which needed treatment. 
As our investigator has pointed out, when AXA initially went through the medical questions, 
this was with Ms Ss husband. But he answered those questions on her behalf, and was 
aware they needed to let AXA know of any changes to the answers before the policy started. 
Also, Ms S knew that her health had very recently changed, and if she wasnt sure what 
questions had been asked initially, I think its reasonable to have expected her to tell AXA 
this so it could repeat the questions, rather than say there had been no changes to the 
answers. I therefore agree with our investigator that Ms S didnt take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. 
Ms S accepts that she should have told AXA about the changes to her health. However, she 
says that AXA had previously made assurances that it would provide cover for existing 
conditions when moving from a group scheme to an individual policy, so long as this was 
done within 120 days. Ms Ss husband also says they understood she would get up to 120 
days free insurance so long as she took out the cover before the deadline.
Ive read the information on AXAs website that Ms S has referred to, as well as a message 
and email sent to Ms Ss husband by AXA. 
The information provided by AXA was that someone with existing cover taking out a new 
policy could (my emphasis) have cover for previous and existing medical conditions. 
However, AXA didnt give any guarantee that it would cover all previous and existing medical 
conditions. 
I dont think this information would have led Ms S to believe that she would definitely be 
covered for existing conditions, so long as she took out the policy before the end of the 120 
days, or that she wouldnt need to answer AXAs questions accurately. The information 
doesnt suggest that Ms S would get free cover for the 120 days. I therefore dont agree that 
AXA misled Ms S. 
AXA has confirmed that, if it had known Ms S had recently been diagnosed with a fibroid and 
needed treatment for this, then it would have applied the following exclusion:No benefit is payable for any investigations and treatment related to uterine fibroids and 
associated conditions. By this we mean menstrual problems and obstructed labour.
That means the misrepresentation was qualifying, for the purposes of CIDRA. 
It seems AXA has categorised the misrepresentation as careless. That means, under 
CIDRA, AXA was entitled to apply the above exclusion retrospectively, which it has done. As 
Ms Ss claim falls under the exclusion, Im satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to turn down 
her claim.
Ms Ss husband thinks the information from AXA about covering previous and existing 
conditions was misleading, because the terms and conditions say that any existing condition 
will be excluded. So he thinks AXA would not cover any pre-existing conditions. 
It may be helpful if I explain that cover for pre-existing conditions will depend on the type of 
underwriting that is in place. Continuous cover from another policy (known as continuous 
medical exclusion underwriting) is where an insurer allows someone to continue their 
previous private medical insurance cover without the need for fresh underwriting. This 
means that pre-existing conditions covered under the previous policy can potentially still be 
covered under the new policy. 
However, before agreeing to offer continuous cover, an insurer will ask a few medical 
questions in order to assess the risk of doing so. An insurer will usually want to know about 
any recent health problems or planned treatment. It may then decide to apply exclusions to 
any recent or ongoing medical problems, depending on the likelihood of a claim being made. 
The reason for that is because the very nature of insurance is that it provides cover for 
unexpected events. 
Ms Ss membership certificate confirmed that her cover for existing medical conditions was 
on continuing medical exclusion terms, and that the policy had been issued as a continuation 
option from the previous group policy. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Ms S, but I dont find that AXA did anything wrong 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman