DRN-4276139
The complaint
Ms S complains about Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) poor service, delays and closing her 
claim regarding her commercial property insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms S made a claim following a storm for a leak at her tenanted property. She contacted 
Zurich to make a claim. But said she experienced severe delays, miscommunication and that 
the claim hasnt been resolved. 
Ms S said that internal renovations that Zurich completed, were completed to a very poor 
standard and that Zurich should repair them. So, Ms S complained to Zurich. She said that 
she felt as if Zurich took no responsibility and passed her off to its contractors. 
In its final response, Zurich explained that the complaint hadnt been considered but it 
accepted that there had been avoidable delays and apologised for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. It said that it wasnt responsible for the internal damage caused to 
Ms S property, since it completed its schedule of works. Further, Zurich said that this new 
damage, wasnt as a result of an insured peril, unlike the initial claim. 
Zurich said that it had investigated the additional damage and found that the cause was due 
to water getting through the external walls and not as a result of the original storm. It said the 
responsibility for repairing this damage was for the freeholder of the property. And as Ms S 
had no accidental damage cover on the policy, this wasnt covered. Zurich accepted that it 
had failed to tell Ms S this sooner.
It further recognised all the poor service errors and offered Ms S compensation of £500, for 
the trouble and upset caused. It also said that it wouldnt re-open Ms S claim, unless she 
provided evidence to refute its conclusions.  Ms S was given her referral rights and referred 
a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her 
view was that the water was emanating from the external walls, roof tests conducted showed 
no leaks. So, she agreed that this claim wasnt related to the initial claim. She felt that the 
£500 compensation offered was fair and in line with our services guidelines. 
Finally, she said that as Ms S was the eligible complainant, that is Zurichs policyholder, she 
was unable to award compensation to anyone else who wasnt an eligible consumer, such 
as Ms S tenants. 
Zurich accepted the view, Ms S did not. Ms S said that Zurich had carried out poor 
renovations at her property, there were many outstanding works that were not completed. 
She had to instruct another independent contractor to carry out the works at a cost of £840. 
Zurich failed to inspect the property. And all of this event caused her stress, emotional and 
financial inconvenience. She also mentioned that the freeholder of the property wrote a 
report that said that the internal decoration was appalling. So, she asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Ms S, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision and why I think it is fair. 
Ive read all the evidence and taken into consideration the comments made by both parties. 
Essentially, Ms S is complaining that Zurich has failed in its obligations to carry out (to an 
acceptable standard) the repairs on her property following a storm.
Because of the number of complaints that Ms S raised, I asked Zurich for its comments. It 
said that Ms S had made a previous claim for water damage in 2017 where a cash 
settlement was made. The current claim was reported on 16 April 2021, for an incident that 
had happened in July 2019, which had been the same month that the previous repairs had 
been cash settled by Zurich. 
Zurich further explained that following its investigations into the current claim, it had found 
that the water wasnt coming through the roof but through the walls. And as such, the claim 
wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Zurich also confirmed that it was aware of the £840 that Ms S paid but said that as the 
damage that it related to wasnt covered under the policy, then it wouldnt be responsible for 
covering that invoice. 
Zurich reiterated that there were no reinstatement works that have been completed by any of 
its contractors in relation to this current claim and the previous one. So, there were no 
outstanding works which would ultimately be covered. 
Ms S obtained a report from the freeholder who carried out an inspection in April 2023. That 
report which I have read explains that the source of the water damage wasnt from the walls. 
It said that the walls had readings taken from them and the result of those readings were 
within acceptable levels. And there was no evidence of damp staining to suggest that there 
was penetrating damp. The report further went on to conclude that the chimney was vented 
which was good as this would allow air through the stacks. There was no evidence to 
suggest that water was penetrating through the fabric of the building. 
As this evidence was conflicting to the reason why Zurich declined the claim, namely that 
water penetrating through the walls wasnt covered under the policy, I asked Zurich for its 
comments on the report. 
Zurich said that the claim that the report mentioned appeared to be unrelated to the original 
claim. It reiterated that its final decision stated that the claim remain closed as damage was 
evidenced as coming from the external walls, and not the roof. It didnt think the comments 
from the landlord could be considered as evidence. In any event, as Ms S didnt have 
accidental cover on her policy, the external walls wouldnt be covered. In addition, Zurich sent further evidence and in particular a detailed chronology of the claim. 
Briefly the original claim commenced in April 2019, where following a storm, Ms S made a 
claim for a leak. It appears that she was dual insured, but for the claim relating to her cover 
with Zurich, it settled the claim with a cash payment of £3,666.74. In addition, it paid Ms S 
£300 compensation for the delays that occurred during the claim. Ms S accepted the 
settlement.
On 23 February 2022, Ms S raised a complaint as she said that works were still outstanding 
and needed to be completed. These works didnt form part of the original claim. And Zurich 
told Ms S that the additional damage wouldnt be covered. 
On 11 March 2022 Ms S complained again. Zurich asked her to provide her own surveyors 
report against the decline decision. Then in December 2022, Zurich issued its final response 
maintaining the decline.  Ms S was advised by our service to make a new complaint. 
On 8 July 2022, the new complaint was raised as Ms S was still unhappy with the delays. 
Zurich carried out further inspections including a hose pipe test and found no water leaking 
from the roof. However, it offered Ms S a further £500 compensation due to the delays and 
service issues. 
Having reviewed this and the evidence that Ms S provided, Im satisfied that additional 
damage wasnt as a result of the original claim. As it was most likely caused by a separate 
external water ingress. And as Ms S didnt have accidental damage cover on her policy, then 
I think that Zurich were fair to decline the claim.
I understand that Ms S has provided a report from the landlord, and I note that the landlord 
states that there is no water coming through the roof. Which accords with what Zurich has 
said. Consequently, as there was no water leaking through the roof and the external wall 
damage wasnt covered under the policy, Im persuaded that these are additional reasons 
why Zurich were fair to decline the claim. 
I acknowledge Ms S strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that Zurich acted unfairly. And I think it was reasonable to offer 
£500 compensation for the poor service issues. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman