DRN-4002520
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd mis-sold her a Free-Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution pension policy (FSAVC), and shes lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mrs H was employed as a teacher, and in 1993 approached a business (now operated by 
Aviva) about her pension arrangements. She wanted to increase her pension provision at 
retirement. After discussions with one of Avivas agents, in March 1993 she took out an 
FSAVC, with a policy term of just under 29 years and at a cost of £25 per month.  
Following a further meeting with the same sales agent in 1995, who by this time no longer 
worked for Aviva  he was now an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA)  Mrs H increased 
her premiums to £95 per month. She continued paying into this policy until about 2000.
In 2021 Mrs H, assisted by a representative, complained to Aviva about the sale of this 
FSAVC policy to her. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. Aviva acknowledged there was no 
evidence that applicable guidance at the time  that their agent should have made Mrs H 
aware of alternative in-house AVC arrangements  was followed. 
Notwithstanding, Aviva were satisfied their agent had recommended a suitable product for 
Mrs Hs needs in 1993  pointing to a review meeting that took place in 1996 during which 
she confirmed she was aware of the costs and charges of her FSAVC, and that other 
options had been discussed at the time the FSAVC policy was sold. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs H brought her complaint to this Service. One of our Investigators 
initially felt Mrs Hs complaint had been brought to us too late, and we didnt have the 
jurisdiction to consider it. But one of our Ombudsmen disagreed  he thought there was 
nothing in the notes of the 1996 review meeting to suggest Mrs H had been made aware of 
any potential problems with the advice shed received in 1993. He concluded Mrs H only 
became aware of a cause for complaint recently, and that it had been brought to us within 
the required timescales for us to consider it. 
Our Investigator then looked at the merits of Mrs Hs complaint. He thought Avivas agent 
should have provided Mrs H with a comparison of the relative benefits of an FSAVC and an 
in-house AVC plan, and there was no evidence this was provided, or discussion had  both 
during the 1993 sale and 1996 review. He felt the agent hadnt fulfilled his obligations as an 
adviser tied to Aviva  and set out what he felt Aviva should do to put things right. 
Aviva responded, and questioned why our Investigator hadnt considered that the agent was 
no longer working for Aviva in 1995, when the increase premium meeting took place  
stating they would no longer have been liable for any advice provided at that time. Aviva 
highlighted the adviser, at the time of the premium increase in 1995, was an IFA and subject 
to additional duties in terms of what information he needed to tell Mrs H. 
Further, Aviva remained of the view there was no obligation on their agent (when the FSAVC 
policy was recommended in 1993) to record any discussion that involved the alternative 
options available, and that Mrs Hs subsequent 1996 review answers showed shed been 
made aware  and this was enough at the time. Our Investigator disagreed, and so Aviva 
asked for Mrs Hs complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman for further consideration. 
Having considered the facts here, I reached a different conclusion to our Investigator, and 
issued a Provisional Decision (PD) setting out my reasons, which said as follows:
What I provisionally decided  and why
I need to begin by looking at what the regulations said about the sale of FSAVC policies at 
the time of the 1993 sale. The advisor who met with Mrs H in 1993 was known as a tied 
advisor, which means they could only recommend Aviva products. 
Notwithstanding, tied advisors were still required to follow certain rules in place at the time. 
These were set out by the regulator at that time  LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit 
Trust Regulatory Organisation). 
To summarise, the LAUTRO Code said tied advisors should maintain high standards of 
integrity and fair dealing, must exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing their 
services, and generally take proper account of the interests of investors. The Code added 
that businesses (and by extension their tied advisors) should:
-Have regard to the consumers financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupations scheme, and 
-Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question
What this means, in practical terms, is that in addition to highlighting the benefits of the 
FSAVC policy, the tied advisor should also have known it was highly likely that in-house 
options would have been available to Mrs H (she was a local authority employed teacher)  
and would have needed to mention the generic benefits of those in-house options. Those 
benefits included an in-house AVC potentially offering lower charges than an FSAVC, or that 
added years might have been available under a defined benefit OPS.
But this didnt mean the advisor needed to know anything specific about Mrs Hs OPS. 
Instead, we would expect him to have recommended that Mrs H explored those other 
options with her OPS scheme herself before considering whether to take out the FSAVC. 
So, the first question is  did the advisor do this as part of the 1993 FSAVC sale process? 
Aviva have provided some documents from the time of the 1993 sale. Aviva accepts these 
documents make no reference to the alternative options, or their advisor alerting Mrs H to 
these at the time. Put simply, there is no evidence from the 1993 sales process Mrs H was 
made aware of the in-house options, which the LAUTRO rules required. 
The later 1996 review documents do make a passing reference to the other options having 
been discussed in 1993, but Im not persuaded these provide sufficient evidence that the 
advisor did everything the LAUTRO rules required him to do at the time. 
The notes from that 1996 meeting record the purpose of the visit was to discuss Mr Hs 
FSAVC. Mrs H is mentioned only towards the end of the note, where it confirms the Aviva 
representative helped her to complete the review questionnaire in respect of her FSAVC, 
and that the (1993) sales agent had fully explained about charges, in-house AVCs etc. And the questionnaire itself simply consists of a handful of basic personal circumstances 
questions, plus a few product specific ones  including asking if Mrs H understood the policy 
she took out, were the premiums affordable, was she satisfied with the policy, was the policy 
clearly explained by the advisor, was Mrs H satisfied with the advisors conduct and that she 
wasnt put under any pressure. Mrs H answered Yes to all of these and signed the form. 
Two things strike me here. The first is that the form  which clearly states to be an FSAVC 
review form  asks no questions about whether Mrs H was made aware of the other options, 
and Mrs H also makes no separate comment on that subject on the form. Secondly, despite 
signing it, Mrs H doesnt print her name under the signature, and nor does she add the date 
it was completed either. Whilst Ive no doubt it was completed during the review meeting in 
July 1996, I think this suggests little importance or thought was attached to the form by her 
at the time. 
Accordingly, Im not persuaded these 1996 documents provide sufficient evidence that 
Avivas tied advisor most likely provided Mrs H with all of the information he was required to 
provide, as per the 1988 LAUTRO code in force at the time, during the 1993 sale process. I 
also havent seen anything showing the likely more expensive FSAVC option was in Mrs Hs 
best interests. Accordingly, I conclude the FSAVC plan was mis-sold. 
Its highly likely an AVC plan was cheaper than the FSAVC plan, and based on the limited 
information available, I think its likely Mrs H would have chosen this cheaper option at the 
time, had she been made aware  and which she has since confirmed in her complaint form 
to this service that she would have chosen.
The 1995 advice
Aviva has said their liability only extends to the period when the new advice was provided in 
April 1995 that resulted in Mrs H increasing her premiums. I agree, and Ill explain why.
When the advisor met with Mrs H in 1995, he was no longer employed by, or tied to Aviva. 
He was instead practicing as an IFA, acting on behalf of the firm he then worked for. As an 
IFA, he was required to follow a different set of rules, set out by a different organisation  the 
Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). These 
placed an extra burden on the advisor  hed have needed to find out more detail about all of 
the options, then explicitly compare what the in-house and FSAVC options had to offer, and 
positively recommend the most suitable option that was in Mrs Hs best interests.
I dont know whether the advisor did any/all the above. Mrs H has confirmed she has almost 
no recollection of the events at the time. Mrs H (via her representative) has also previously 
complained to the firm responsible for the advisor about the 1995 increase premium advice, 
but that firm also argued that Mrs H brought her complaint too late under the FCAs rules. 
I considered this separate complaint, and for reasons completely unconnected to the facts 
here, I agreed Mrs Hs complaint wasnt one this Service could consider and issued a 
Decision confirming that. What this means practically, for the purposes of this complaint, is I 
havent been provided with any evidence about the 1995 premium increase sale. 
Regardless, I dont think that matters here. Im satisfied there was an advisor meeting in 
1995, which resulted in Mrs H increasing her premiums. And its likely that was done, or at 
the very least the amount to be increased was chosen, on the advisors recommendation. There was a material change to the existing policy arrangement. If Mrs H was unhappy with 
the conduct of what happened in that new advice process, that was a complaint properly 
addressed to the advisors new firm. So, I dont think Aviva can be held responsible for any 
loss experienced following that April 1995 advice. 
I then set out a proposed redress methodology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my PD. Mrs H (via her representative) doesnt agree with the 
proposed outcome calculation. She doesnt believe there should be a liability cap placed on 
the redress calculation in 1995, when she took further advice from the advisor when he was 
no longer tied to Aviva. 
Mrs H advises she hasnt seen any sales documents from the time of the 1995 sale, but 
strongly believe that the [premium increase] advice was also non-compliant. She refers to 
the FSAs FSAVC Review model guidance which states that firms are likely liable for all 
losses arising from non-compliant advice, where the loss was caused by non-compliance in 
circumstances where the client continued to rely on that advice. 
Mrs H also refers to the causal link  the link between a firms advice and the loss it 
subsequently caused. She believes this link remains intact  and wasnt broken when she 
received the increase advice in 1995. She points to the fact it was the same individual who 
advised her in 1993 and 1995, and the 1995 advice was only in relation to the £70 increase 
in premium. Mrs H doesnt believe the initial £25 premium was at the forefront of any advice 
given in 1995, hence no break in causal link in relation to that initial advice.  
Mrs H goes on to say there was no mention of any capped liability when Aviva carried out 
their internal review in 1996, even though they knew about the premium increase by then. 
She concludes by suggesting Avivas redress calculation should be based on the £25 per 
month 1993 premium, continuing up to 21 February 2020 when the policy was transferred. 
Ill respond to her points shortly. 
Aviva raised a question about whether we have jurisdiction to review this (1993) complaint. 
They questioned the rationale for considering the 1995 sales process as separate  
pointing out it was the same agent who sold the increase, relating to the same FSAVC. They 
suggest, as the 1995 sale was essentially a continuation of the 1993 one, albeit one where 
the agent was no longer tied, any decision the 1995 advice was time-barred must mean the 
1993 advice would also be time-barred  essentially requiring a reversal of the decision that 
was made by a previous Ombudsman that this 1993 advice was a case we could consider. 
On this point, Ive explained to Aviva the 1995 advice complaint was time-barred because it 
had been brought to this service too late, and not because Id concluded it had been made to 
the advisors new firm (who Ill call T here) too late. Whilst Mrs H had complained to T, 
whod responded by saying they believed it had been made to them too late (so, outside of 
the 6&3 year time limits set out in the DISP Rules), she only then brought it to our service 
ten months after T had issued their final response letter (so, outside our six-month referral 
period set out in the DISP Rules). Id concluded there were no mitigating circumstances for 
this delay, and decided it was a complaint this Service could not consider. I hadnt considered the facts or chronology of the 1995 advice complaint, and so hadnt 
reached a conclusion about Mrs Hs reasonable knowledge of a cause for complaint about 
that 1995 advice. Further, because of the reasons for my decision in that case, T hadnt 
provided their business file, and there was no reason for it to have been requested. 
What this means, in practical terms, is that Ive had no sight of any documents relating to the 
1995 sale, and Ive had to consider this case based on the limited evidence I have. Which 
brings me on to the points Mrs H, via her representative, has raised  which I acknowledge, 
particularly around the issue of Avivas liability period. 
The FSAVC Review Model Guidance sets out, at Section 8.2, guidance for Firms to consider 
where there may have been other firms involved in the advice journey. Section 8.2.1 says:
Where a firm concludes that it may be jointly liable along with one or more other 
forms for the investors loss then the firm that gave the first advice should review the 
whole period (including the period after the other firm(s) became involved) and then 
seek to obtain redress form the other firm(s).
Section 8.2.2 then says:
Where a firm believes that the causal link between the advice it gave and any 
ongoing loss has been broken, perhaps because a second firm gave advice at the 
same time as a change of employment, then the first firm need only consider the 
period up to the second advice. 
Ive considered the above and thought very carefully again about the facts and evidence 
here. And having done so, I still think Avivas liability period should be limited to the time 
between the 1993 and 1995 advice. 
Its not in dispute the advisor was no longer an Aviva tied agent when he advised Mrs H in 
1995 to increase her premium to £95. He worked as an IFA for T, who were liable for his 
actions. So, advice given in 1995 in whatever form, compliant or otherwise, was clearly by a 
second firm, as per 8.2.2 above. That, in principle I think, breaks the causal link. 
I appreciate Mrs Hs rep thinks I should split the two elements of the post-1995 premium, 
and essentially treat the initial advice/£25 premium separately. He thinks the 1995 meeting 
would likely only have involved advice to pay an extra £70, with no meaningful 
consideration about the existing £25 premium. And if I was to agree with this, it would mean 
there was no break in the causal link, as the 1993 advice had never been reconsidered. 
Whilst I understand what Mrs Hs rep is saying here, I dont think the evidence I have 
available reasonably allows me to reach that conclusion  I dont have enough evidence 
about what happened during the 1995 advice process for me to do that. Neither Mrs H nor 
this Service has any record of precisely what was discussed in 1995. And Mrs H has 
previously advised she has no recollection of what was discussed either. 
What we do know is the 1995 increase advice was provided by the agent/IFA who was 
subject to stricter rules about what he should have said to Mrs H than when he provided the 
1993 advice. The adviser was not only required to consider the FSAVC policy but should 
also have reviewed the in-house options and recommended the product that they felt was 
most suitable for Mrs H.  
So, I think its probably more likely than not the advisor would have discussed and advised 
Mrs H on the total £95 premium rather than just the £70 increase (ignoring the existing £25 
premium entirely in the process). And of course by recommending the increase, the IFA was essentially satisfied that the FSAVC was a suitable product for Mrs H. Whether that advice 
was compliant or not with these stricter rules - to the extent Mrs H became fully aware of the 
differences between an FSAVC and in-house AVC, and made an informed choice to 
proceed in the process - isnt something for me to consider or comment on here.
In summary, I still think Aviva mis-sold the 1993 FSAVC policy to Mrs H. I think, had she 
known more about the other options available, shed have most likely chosen the cheaper in-
house AVC option. And I think Aviva must now calculate the loss Mrs H experienced as a 
result of that mis-sale in the way Ive set out in the following section. Further, that calculation, 
and Avivas liability, should be limited to the contributions paid between the sale of the 
FSAVC, and the date Mrs H increased her premiums in April 1995.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd should undertake a redress calculation for the contributions 
paid between 1993 and 1995 in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, 
incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with 
property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 
January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% here overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd, and require it to pay her 
redress as set out and calculated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman