DRN-3678604
The complaint
G complain that MD Insurance Services Limited unfairly withdrew an offer to provide a 
buildings warranty for a new build property they had developed.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
In short, in 2013, G applied to MDIS for 10 year building warranties for two flats they were 
building. They gave a timescale for the development to be completed and estimated the 
value of the flats at a total of £5.2 million.
MDIS accepted the application and G paid the required premium. In 2015, as anticipated, 
the development was completed and signed off by the surveyor. 
G asked MDIS to issue the two certificates of insurance and advised theyd sold one of the 
flats for £4.7 million.
It appears only one of the certificates was issued at that point  the one relating to the flat 
that had been sold. G tell us they thought MDIS were waiting for a sale price from them for 
the other flat. But that flat wasnt sold at the time and was, in fact, rented out.
There appears to have been no communication between the parties about the second flat 
until 2019, when MDIS sent a letter to G saying that they needed more information 
(specifically the sale price) to issue the certificate of insurance for the second flat. They said 
that if they didnt get this information, theyd withdraw the warranty offer.
Unfortunately, this letter was sent to the wrong postal address. MDIS didnt then try to 
contact G by any other means and went ahead and cancelled the warranty offer.
G were unaware of this until 2022, when they contacted MIDIS, advised that they had an 
offer for purchase of the flat and asked MDIS to issue the Certificate of Insurance. MDIS told 
them the warranty offer had in fact been cancelled back in 2019.
G complained to MDIS and asked them to reinstate the warranty and issue the Certificate of 
Insurance. 
MDIS didnt uphold the complaint. They apologised for sending the cancellation letter to the 
wrong address but said it had been Gs responsibility to request the Certificate of Insurance 
in good time after completion of the development.
They said they couldnt now issue a Certificate of Insurance because that would mean the 
cover would be extended for another 10 years, making 17 years in total, when the policy was 
designed to cover defects in the building in the first 10 years after completion.
And they said the underwriter was no longer offering cover of this type, so it was impossible 
for them to effectively begin a new policy in 2022.
G werent happy with this response and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think MDIS had treated G fairly and reasonably. He thought MDIS 
had made an error in sending the cancellation letter to the wrong address and this had led to 
unfair consequences for G. 
He said MDIS should pay for equivalent cover for the property for the three years which 
would have remained on the policy after 2022. And he thought MDIS should pay G £200 for 
the inconvenience theyd suffered as a result of MDISs error.
MDIS disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point in looking at this case is that G bought and paid for warranties for both flats 
in 2013. And given the completion date of the build, they had a right to expect that cover 
would be in place for 10 years after completion in 2015.
Theres a complication here in that the premium G paid in 2013 is very likely to have been 
too low given the value of the two flats in 2015. But Ill come back to that point later.
There was undoubtedly some confusion in 2015 when G asked for the Certificates of 
Insurance for both flats. G sent an email to MDIS in April 2015 which very clearly asked 
them to issue both certificates.
MDIS issued only one certificate. G say they assumed that was because the second flat 
wasnt yet sold. So, they left it until theyd had an offer to purchase the flat  which turned 
out to be seven years later.
Theres an MDIS document entitled Rules of Registration which sets out how the 
warranties work. This (in Section 9) clearly envisages a situation in which a property is 
completed and signed off but rented out rather than sold. Section 9(d) says that if the home 
is rented out before being sold: 
 the period of cover shall commence (or be deemed to commence) on the date of 
the issue of the Certificate of Approval and the balance of cover will be as noted on 
the Certificate of Insurance
On the basis of that text, Im satisfied that the period of cover for Gs second flat  given that 
it was rented out - should have begun in April 2015, when the flat was completed and 
approved by the surveyor. 
The paragraph also appears to suggest (see particularly the text inside the brackets) that the 
Certificate of Insurance might nonetheless be issued some time later. 
So, I dont think G made an unreasonable assumption in thinking that theyd ask for a 
Certificate of Insurance (which would run from the date of approval rather than for a further 
10 years) only when they were in the process of selling the property.
Theres no evidence weve seen to suggest MDIS went back to G in 2015 and asked them 
whether the flat was to be rented out or asked them for a valuation of the flat. And theres no evidence MDIS attempted to clarify the situation for G or explain that the Certificate of 
Insurance should be issued (and the warranty period begun) before the flat had been sold.
So, I dont think much blame can be assigned to G for the failed  or to be more accurate, 
entirely stalled  communication between the parties in 2015. G clearly requested 
Certificates of Insurance for both flats  and had paid a premium two years before that to 
obtain cover for both flats.
I think MDIS should have gone back to G at that point and sought more information  and 
made Gs options clear.
Even if I did think G were at fault in 2015, that wouldnt affect my view of this case, because 
the much more significant issue is what happened in 2019. 
Ill leave aside the question of why MDIS waited for four years after completion of the build to 
suddenly concern themselves about the lack of a Certificate of Insurance for the second flat. 
The more significant question is what the 2019 letter actually says.
It begins by noting that four years after completion, the Certificate of Insurance has still not 
been issued. It asks for the sale price of the second flat  and notes that an additional 
premium may be required given that the first flat sold for £4.7 million  against a total sum 
insured of £5.2 million.
It asks for that information within seven days and warns that the warranty offer will be 
withdrawn if MDIS dont hear from G  with the requested information - by then.
Theres no dispute here that MDIS made an error when addressing the letter. And that, as a 
consequence, G didnt receive the letter. The important question for me in making this 
decision is what the consequences of that error were. 
If MDIS hadnt made that error  and/or had tried to contact G by other means as a 
safeguard  then G would have received the communication and would have responded 
within the seven days.
They would either have provided a sale price and/or advised that the property was rented. 
MDIS have confirmed  as their policy documents quoted above suggest  that the warranty 
would still have been provided if the property was rented out and not yet sold.
At that point, MDIS would presumably have considered whether the premium needed to be 
increased  given the sum insured had been mostly taken up by the first flats sale price. 
Thats what the letter says they will do. And when G had paid any required further premium, 
the Certificate of Insurance would have been issued. 
That Certificate - as the above-quoted policy document makes clear  would have set the 
period of cover to be deemed to have begun on the date the Certificate or Approval was 
issued by the surveyor (in April 2015).
I think MDIS entirely miss the point when they say it would be unreasonable to ask them to 
begin a 10-year warranty in 2022. Thats not what G  or our investigator  asked them to 
do. Their own policy documents are clear that in these kinds of circumstances, the warranty 
would run from April 2015  and so end in April 2025  whenever the Certificate of Insurance 
might in fact be issued.
So, in summary, Im satisfied that MDISs error  in failing to address the 2019 letter properly 
or try other means to contact G  meant that G had the offer of a policy (that theyd bought and paid for) unfairly withdrawn. 
This leaves them without an extant new build warranty  which affects their ability to sell the 
property given that many lenders wont provide funds for the purchase of a new build 
property without a warranty being in place. And it has caused them a degree of additional 
inconvenience.
Thats why Im going to uphold this complaint  and why I agree with our investigator as to 
what the outcome should be. 
Putting things right
G is a corporate body, rather than an individual person. So, it cant suffer distress or upset. 
But I agree with our investigator that G has suffered some inconvenience as a result of 
MDISs error and so I think it would be fair to ask them to pay the £200 in compensation that 
our investigator suggested.
MDIS have said the underwriter wont accept new business in this area of cover. I dont have 
any reason to doubt that and I accept that it makes things difficult to resolve very easily.
Nonetheless, the fact that its difficult doesnt mean MDIS can or should escape their 
obligation to put things right for their customer given that their error has caused the problem.
Nothing I say in this decision  which concerns only this complaint about MDIS  can require 
the underwriter to do anything at all. But I would suggest MDIS ask the underwriter to cover 
the remaining period of the policy (to April 2025) on the basis that this is not new business 
but simply the final stage in the fulfilment of an agreement made in 2013. 
I assume in all this that whilst the underwriters book is closed for this type of warranty, they 
still have customers with warranties agreed before they withdrew from this particular market. 
But for MDISs errors, G would be one of those existing customers and could presumably 
now be treated as such by the underwriter, if they wished to do so.
All of that said, if MDIS cant convince the underwriter to do that, they will have to find an 
alternative means to put G in the position they would have been in if MDIS hadnt made the 
error. That would likely mean buying equivalent cover for G over the period to the end of 
April 2025.
To be clear, MDIS must either cause the warranty originally agreed to be brought into effect 
and provide cover until April 2025 or they must pay for equivalent cover for G over that same 
period.
As a final note, Im satisfied its very likely that if the Certificate of Insurance had been issued 
in 2015, or indeed in 2019, MDIS would have asked G for an additional premium payment. 
The total value insured was £5.2 million. The first flat sold for £4.7 million. That would leave 
only £0.5 million of cover for the second flat  which had a sale price in 2022 of £3.8m. 
G have said they accept that the premium would very likely increase. And Im not now going 
to ask MDIS to provide cover without collecting a fair and reasonable premium overall.
So, MDIS may now recalculate the premium based on the value of the two flats in 2015  
when one Certificate of Insurance was issued and when the other likely would have been 
had communications between the parties been clearer at the time.
Its not entirely clear to me what the original premium was  for £5.2 million of cover. But suffice to say the second flat appears significantly less valuable than the first, given that it 
had a price of £0.7m less that the first flat sold for, despite it being on the market seven 
years later. 
I dont intend to do the calculations in detail here, but suffice to say that if the premium 
increased by much more than 50% of the original price, that might appear very odd given the 
values of the two flats and the fact that the original sum insured still had £0.5 million left after 
the first flat was covered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Gs complaint.
MD Insurance Services Limited must:
ensure G have the original warranty or equivalent cover for the second flat up until 
the end of April 2025; 
re-calculate the premium based only on the values of the two flats in May 2015;
pay G £200 compensation for the inconvenience G experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman