DRN-3781009
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold membership of a long-term holiday programme. 
Because he paid for the membership in part with his credit card, issued by American 
Express Services Europe Limited , he says that he has a claim against it in the same way as 
against the seller.  
What happened
In August 2015 Mr C and his wife were on holiday in Mexico. In the course of that holiday, 
they agreed to buy membership of the Bahia Principe Privilege Club (the Club) for 
US$13,500. Mr C used his American Express credit card to pay that, along with a completion 
fee of US$875  a total of more than £9,500. 
Ill discuss the relevant terms of the sale agreement later in this decision, but the 
membership entitled Mr and Mrs C to a junior suite in the Clubs hotels for one or two weeks 
a year for 30 years, up to a total of 45 weeks. Also included was membership of RCI, a 
timeshare exchange business, for two years. 
Mr and Mrs C used their membership in 2017 for a stay at one of the Clubs resorts, but they 
say that their experience was not what they had been led to believe it would be. They used 
their Club points in 2019 for a trip to the USA, but they had to use more of their points than 
they had expected. They have not used their Club or their RCI membership since then.
In August 2021 Mr C contacted American Express to make a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. He said that he and his wife had bought the Club membership 
following a lengthy presentation. In the course of that presentation, they had been told 
several things about the membership which were untrue. He said the following statements  
had turned out to be incorrect:
They could dine in any of the restaurants, but it was very difficult to get a booking, since 
they were open to all the guests at the resort.  
They could call private transport to take them around the resort, but that was not true.
They could use the privilege lounge at the resort. 
They would have free use of a safety deposit box in their room. 
The Club would be able to find cheap flights, but in fact cheaper flights are available if 
they book independently.
Accommodation would be free; they would only have to pay for food and drink at the 
Clubs resorts. 
They would have access to a designated area of the beach. 
They would receive the platinum season for the same price as gold season 
membership. This was important, because the platinum season covered the school 
holidays.
They were told that buying Club membership would save them around £2,500 a year.   
Mr C said that he and his wife had agreed to buy Club membership on the basis of these 
statements. However, they later found out that they could buy equivalent holidays  even at 
the Clubs resorts  for less than the cost of membership. The RCI membership they bought 
is a US membership, which is of little use to them as UK residents. The accommodation is 
not of the standard they expected, and the yearly charges have increased each year (except 
when held at existing levels because of Covid-19). 
American Express did not agree to meet Mr Cs claim. It was not persuaded that he had 
shown that there had been any misrepresentation, pointing to the lack of supporting 
evidence. 
Mr C therefore referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators considered what 
had happened but took a similar view to American Express  there was not enough evidence 
to uphold the section 75 claim, and American Express had not therefore treated Mr C 
unfairly by declining it. 
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr C instructed a claims management 
company, which Ill call S, to represent him. S did not accept the investigators 
recommendations and made further submissions on behalf of Mr C. Those submissions 
largely consisted of arguments that the seller was in breach of relevant UK timeshare laws 
and regulations. S also suggested that the facts of the case meant that there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr C and American Express under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act. 
I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr C says that he has a claim for misrepresentation against the seller of the Club 
membership and that he therefore has a similar claim against American Express. His 
primary complaint is that American Express wrongly declined to meet that claim.
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take American Express credit card payments are sufficient to constitute 
pre-existing arrangements. 
The supplier in this case was a Panamanian company, White Bay Trading Corp (White 
Bay); that was the company which sold the Club membership. The card payments appear 
on Mr Cs statement as being made to Bahia Principe Mex. DP Las Vegas. It is not clear 
whether that is merely a trading style of the Panamanian company, a different company 
altogether, or a company linked to White Bay. Because of that, there is some doubt as to 
whether Mr Cs card payment was made under pre-existing arrangements between 
American Express and White Bay and, therefore, whether section 75 applies at all. American 
Express may be able to provide further information on the point. 
Section 75 can however apply where the supplier and the business which takes payment are 
associates of each other (defined in section 184 of the Consumer Credit Act). A company is an associate of another if one controls the other or if they are both controlled by the same 
people or by associates of those people.. 
The information available about companies registered in Panama is very limited. I have not 
identified any clear link between White Bay and Grupo Piero (the group which runs Bahia 
Principe) and which would lead me to conclude that they are associates. I have nevertheless 
approached this case on the basis that the payment was made under arrangements which 
mean that section 75 could apply and considered what Mr C has said about the sale and 
subsequent events.
The membership agreement
The August 2015 agreement comprised a Membership Acquisition Agreement and a 
Confirmation Document for the Vacation Club Program. It was made between Mr and Mrs 
C on the one hand and White Bay on the other. 
The Acquisition Agreement included the following:
Mr and Mrs Cs membership included  the use of 45 weeks, Gold season, in Unit 
Type Junior Suite which may be utilized 1-2 week(s) each year, during thirty (30) 
consecutive years (clause 1). 
The Annual Fee was US$136.00 for 2017, which could increase from the previous 
years fees. The Club would use its best efforts to ensure any increase would be less 
than 10%. The fee was payable, whether or not the member uses any Club services. 
(clause 3)
Members could accelerate the use of Membership Weeks, subject to availability. 
(clause 5) 
Mr and Mrs C could only cancel the agreement if they could prove that White Bay had 
not fulfilled its obligations under it (clause 10).
The Acquisition Agreement, Confirmation Document and Promissory Notes (which did 
not apply here, since Mr C paid with his credit card) were the only valid agreements 
between the parties. The Club would not recognise any other agreement, written or oral 
(clause 11).
The agreement would be subject to the laws of Panama (clause 12).  
The Confirmation Document included the following provisions which are relevant to the 
complaint:
An annual service fee would be payable (paragraph 1). 
The Club could modify products, services or hotels forming part of the vacation 
programme (paragraph 2).
The first use of the programme would be 6 months after the acquisition date (paragraph 
3).
The decision to join the Club was not made as a result of coercion (paragraph 4).
The Club may offer land transportation at a preferential rate (paragraph 6). 
The Club would pay affiliation fees to RCI for two years (clause 7).
The Member understood the term Buyers Remorse (clause 10).
All questions had been answered to the Members satisfaction (clause 12).Copies of the Acquisition Agreement, the Confirmation Document and the Promissory 
Note had been provided (clause 13).
The Club would not recognise the validity of any document signed without the authority 
of the Club (clause 14).   
Gold Season membership entitled the member to use weeks in May, June, September, 
October, November and up to 20 December (Paragraph 22). 
A master suite comprised two adjoining rooms, with two beds in one and one bed in the 
other; a junior suite comprised one room with one or two beds and a sitting area. 
The Club brochure
Whilst it has not been submitted in evidence in this case, I am aware that the Club had 
previously produced a brochure about its resorts and membership benefits. I think it likely 
that it, or something very similar, was available to Mr and Mrs C. 
The brochure I have seen included a page headed Key Terms  meaning definitions used. 
They included:
Club Suite: A club Suite is available when using a Membership Week. Members have the 
right to use Junior Suites or Master Suites , as outlined in the contract. Check-in time is 
3:00pm and check-out time is noon, however, the Privilege Club will do its best to 
accommodate early check-ins and late check-outs.
RCI: Resort Condominiums International (RCI) is the worldwide leader in vacation 
exchange, as well as providing other leisure travel services to its members. The first two 
calendar years of RCI are complimentary to Bahia Principe Privilege Club members. After 
that time period, it is up to our members to choose if they would like to continue with their 
RCI membership.     
The brochure also included a description of a Master Suite and a Junior Suite. A Junior Suite 
would have: a TV; minibar; terrace; bathroom; safety deposit box; a radio alarm with iPod 
docking; and a PlayStation 3.
Another page of the brochure was headed Member Benefits. As well as various discounts, 
the list of benefits included: early check-in and late check-out, subject to availability; access 
to beaches reserved for members only; private airport transfers, subject to a fee; and 
complimentary internet and long-distance phone calls. 
Misrepresentation claim
Mr Cs primary case is that he has a claim for misrepresentation against the seller of the 
Club membership, White Bay, and that she therefore has a like claim against American 
Express under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act. As I have indicated, the contract 
with White Bay was governed by the laws of Panama. Whether Mr C has a claim against 
White Bay would therefore fall to be determined under Panamanian law. For the purposes of 
this decision, however, I have assumed that Panama recognises claims akin to those for 
misrepresentation under English law.   
In English law, a misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, 
made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other 
party into the contract. 
In considering whether Mr C is likely to have a claim in misrepresentation, I must consider 
not only what he says he was told about the Club Membership but also the contract itself and other evidence of what happened at the time of sale. 
I have no doubt that the Club was marketed as a luxury brand and that Mr and Mrs C were 
led to believe that their holiday experiences would reflect that. I accept that their 
expectations have not been met. It does not follow however that a claim in misrepresentation 
is likely to succeed. I agree with American Express that there is likely to be insufficient 
evidence to support such a claim here.
Some of the representations which Mr C says were made are directly contradicted by the 
contractual documents themselves. For example, airport transfers  whilst available  were 
not free of charge to members. Gold membership did not cover the month of August.  
Be that as it may, I think that the contract itself makes it very difficult for customers such as 
Mr C to bring a claim for misrepresentation. Clause 11 of the Acquisition Agreement is, in my 
view, an attempt to ensure that anything agreed is included in the written contract itself. That 
does not include oral statements. Clause 14 of the Confirmation Document is a similar 
attempt to avoid such claims. 
In addition, by paragraph 2 of the Confirmation Document, White Bay gave itself a wide 
discretion to change the services provided. Assuming that provision is valid, I think it would 
allow White Bay to modify the facilities provided. That is likely to include how the suites were 
equipped and, for example, offers and excursions at resorts. 
It is likely that Mr and Mrs C would have had greater protection if they had signed up to 
similar arrangements in the European Union or if the contract had been subject to, say, 
English or Spanish law. For instance, they would have had the benefit of a cooling-off period, 
and a provision entitling a supplier to make changes to the services offered might not be 
enforceable. 
In the circumstances, however, I do not think it was unreasonable of American Express to 
turn down Mr Cs claim under section 75.
Section 140A claims
In response to the investigators assessment, S submitted that the circumstances of the sale 
of the Club membership meant that the credit agreement created an unfair relationship 
between Mr C and American Express.  
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In considering whether an agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, a court can consider any linked agreement; that might include Mr Cs 
agreement with White Bay, since it was funded by a credit card payment.  
The credit agreement in this case was Mr Cs agreement under which American Express 
provided him with a credit card. That agreement did not come about because of the 
agreement with White Bay. The account was opened in May 2015, so it was already in 
existence, and Mr C continued to use it to make other payments after the purchase of the 
Club membership. 
I have explained why I dont believe a claim for misrepresentation against White Bay is likely 
to have been successful and therefore why a claim under section 75 would not succeed 
either. Even if I were to reach a different conclusion on that point, however, it would not 
follow that the credit card agreement created an unfair relationship. It might be a factor to take into account, but other remedies are available where a successful claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation is made.
Ss submissions included arguments that White Bay was in breach, in particular, of The 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
Timeshare Regulations). Again, a breach of regulations does not necessarily give rise to a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation; nor would it necessarily make a connected 
credit agreement unfair under section 140A. 
Be that as it may, the Timeshare Regulations (along with the other legislation referred to by 
S) has no application here, since the timeshare contract was governed by the laws of 
Panama.     
Only a court can decide if an agreement creates an unfair relationship under section 140A, 
and only a court can make an order under section 140B. I must however take those 
provisions into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable. I have done that but believe 
it is unlikely that a court would be minded to uphold a claim under section 140A in this case.       
I concluded that I was unlikely to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Neither American Express nor S 
had anything to add in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion from that which I set out 
in it.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and I do not 
require American Express Services Europe Limited to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman