DRN-3915566
The complaint
Mr H complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) cancelled his insurance 
policy without his knowledge.
What happened
To summarise, in February 2020 Mr H bought a ring. At the same time he took out insurance 
to protect his purchase.
In July 2021 Mr H used a thank you benefit available to him, going to the retailer to have his 
ring rhodium plated. 
In May 2022 Mr H noticed that the direct debit for his insurance was no longer being taken. 
He contacted D&G to find out what had happened. Initially, he was told the policy had been 
cancelled after hed claimed and was told to contact the retailer. Mr H explained hed not 
made a claim on his policy, but had simply used one of the thank you benefits.
The retailer told Mr H his issue might be part of a wider problem and directed him to D&G. 
Mr H complained to D&G. His complaint was upheld and D&G paid him £10 to reflect the 
situation. D&G confirmed it was asked to cancel the policy by the retailer. It also told Mr H it 
couldnt set up a new policy or reinstate one in these circumstances. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so brought his complaint to the financial ombudsman. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint. He thought D&G shouldve notified Mr H in writing that his 
policy had been cancelled. He said D&G should pay Mr H a further £50 compensation, to 
better reflect the overall situation. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators outcome, so asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
After reviewing the complaint I issued a provisional decision to both parties. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This complaint arises from a miscommunication between the retailer and D&G. Ive seen 
evidence of an electronic instruction sent from the retailer to D&G, stating the ring was 
beyond economic repair. This prompted D&G to cancel the policy, as this instruction usually 
means the retailer had offered a replacement, resulting in a cessation of cover, in line with 
the policy terms. Mr H wasnt notified that his policy had been cancelled. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions, particularly the sections entitled 
replacements and our right to cancel your policy or bring it to an end. Our right to cancel 
sets out scenarios in which D&G may or will cancel a policy. Bullet points one and four of 
that section are relevant here: 
1. If at any time we replace your product, your policy will automatically end and no 
refund will be due (see Replacements above) 
4. In each case, well confirm any such ending or cancellation of the policy in writing 
to the last address you gave us. 
Its accepted confirmation wasnt sent to Mr H and I think D&G made a mistake here in 
failing to follow its own terms. Unfortunately, this failure meant that Mr H wasnt aware his 
policy had been cancelled and was denied the opportunity to take prompt action to 
investigate the situation. Given that Mr H contacted D&G when he realised his direct debit 
was no longer being taken, Im satisfied he wouldve taken similarly prompt action upon 
receipt of a cancellation notice. So I think D&G has something to put right. 
My role is, as far as possible, to put the customer back in the position he would have been 
in, but for any errors. D&G cancelled Mr Hs policy without his knowledge and didnt send a 
cancellation notice. Had it not done so, his cover wouldve continued uninterrupted. But, Mr 
H would also have continued to pay his premiums. 
D&G has said that as this was a point-of-sale policy, it cannot write a new policy or reinstate 
the cancelled cover. It says it doesnt sell the insurance. I accept D&G did not sell the 
original policy. I dont intend to ask D&G to sell a new policy. However, I do not find D&Gs 
assertion that it can do nothing plausible or acceptable. From time-to-time things go wrong. I 
would expect an insurer to have systems in place to be able to rectify errors, so that 
customers dont lose out. So, D&G should reinstate Mr Hs cover from the date of 
cancellation, or arrange for him to be provided with a policy of the same duration, terms and 
premium, so that hes not at a detriment as a result of the mistake. If D&G needs to liaise 
with the retailer to reinstate of arrange cover, it should do so. 
Im aware D&G has paid Mr H £10 to reflect the situation. I think it needs to go further in 
compensating Mr H for the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused. Through no 
fault of his own Mr Hs policy was cancelled without his knowledge. When trying to resolve 
this situation Mr H had to deal both with the retailer and with his insurer. From what Ive seen 
there was no substantive acceptance of responsibility, with both parties directing Mr H to the 
other. Mr Hs policy covered an engagement ring, something of particular personal 
significance to him and an item for which he clearly wanted protection. I think D&G should 
pay Mr H a further £190 compensation to reflect the upset and inconvenience caused. 
In order to put things right Im intending to direct D&G to:
reinstate Mr Hs cover from the date it was cancelled, or arrange for Mr H to be 
provided with a like-for-like policy, as Ive set out above. If cover is reinstated as if it 
had never been cancelled, D&G would be entitled to deduct from the compensation 
award the cost of the premiums that would have been paid between the dates of 
cancellation and reinstatement.
pay Mr H £190 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this situation has 
caused. 
Mr H has also said hes lost out on additional benefits that wouldve been available to him 
under the policy. I can see from the policy terms that these are identified as non-insurance 
thank you benefits, so not an aspect of the contract I can make findings on. But I will say 
that if cover is reinstated, as if it had never been cancelled in the first place, I would also 
expect those benefits to be part of that reinstatement.Mr H accepted my provisional decision. D&G indicated it was looking at options to restore 
cover for Mr H. It later confirmed it was not possible to reinstate the cancelled policy, so a 
new policy was set up. Mr H confirmed hed received policy documents. He also inquired 
about his compensation and vouchers.
In light of these responses Im now able to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said D&G should reinstate Mr Hs original policy or arrange for 
like-for-like cover.  D&G has said reinstatement wasnt possible. So I think its reasonable to 
provide like-for-like cover instead. 
I also said that if the original policy were reinstated, as if it had never been cancelled, D&G 
would be entitled to deduct the premiums Mr H wouldve paid between the dates of 
cancellation and reinstatement from the compensation award. However, thats not whats 
happened here. As Mr H has been given a new policy, D&G is not entitled to offset the value 
of any premiums that wouldve been due, had the original policy not been cancelled. So it 
must pay the full compensation amount.
Finally, Mr H also inquired about his policy vouchers or thank you benefits. In my 
provisional decision I explained that I could not make findings about the vouchers as they 
were non-insurance benefits. I did indicate that if reinstatement were possible, I would 
expect vouchers to be part of that reinstatement. However, thats not the case here, as Mr H 
has been issued with a new product. And its only the insurance terms I can direct to be 
comparable.   
Putting things right
To put things right, D&G should:
provide replacement cover for Mr H, with terms comparable to the original policy.
pay Mr H £190 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this situation has 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Domestic & General Insurance PLC 
to put things right as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman