DRN-3918779
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited declined their claim for storm 
damage after first accepting it.
Mr and Mrs W held buildings insurance with esure in joint names. For ease of reading, Ill 
refer to Mr W throughout my decision. Any reference to esure includes its agents.
What happened
After a series of storms, during which debris and foliage was blown against Mr Ws 
conservatory, he noticed condensation had built up inside a number of the glazed window 
units. Mr W also noted some external damage to one window. He claimed under the storm 
damage section of his buildings insurance.
esure appointed a surveyor to assess the window units and external damage. The surveyor 
missed the agreed appointment, so Mr W contacted esure to arrange another. The surveyor 
attended the second appointment. During the visit, the surveyor told Mr W the damage was 
storm-related, and he sent confirmation of his opinion to esure along with photos of the 
windows.
Mr W chased up progress of the claim only to find esure had declined cover for the failed 
window units. esure said the internal condensation and misting was due to deterioration of 
the window unit seal as a result of wear and tear. It accepted the claim for the window with 
external damage but because the cost of repair was less than the policy excess, Mr W didnt 
proceed with that element of the claim.
Mr W complained to esure about the way it handled his claim. He said:
The surveyor accepted the claim, so it was wrong for esure to decline it later. 
esure didnt send him a copy of the surveyors report after he asked for it.
The surveyor esure sent was from a different area and wouldnt have knowledge of 
local window installations.
esure refused to arrange a second opinion.
esure looked into Mr Ws complaint and agreed its surveyor had given incorrect information 
about the claim outcome. In light of the delays and inconvenience caused, esure paid Mr W 
£100 compensation.
However, the payment didnt resolve matters, so Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr W asked for matters to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a full review of the evidence.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to assure Mr W that Ive looked at everything both he and esure provided, 
including the file of documents he sent in March 2023. My decision doesnt include Mr Ws 
complaint about the contractors esure used, or the contractors it wouldve used had it 
accepted his claim. Thats because esure is entitled to appoint whichever contractors it sees 
fit in the circumstances and its not within my remit to decide whether it shouldve appointed 
local contractors. That said, I have looked at the way esure handled Mr Ws concerns about 
its contractors.
Storm damage claim
When considering a complaint about a claim for storm damage, I look at three things:
Was there a storm?
Is the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
To uphold Mr Ws complaint that esure unfairly declined his claim, Id need to see sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the answer is yes to each of the questions above.
Was there a storm?
This is not in dispute, so Im satisfied the answer is yes.
Is the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Theres no dispute that the storm caused damage to the external part of one window and 
esure accepted that part of Mr Ws claim. I realise it wasnt beneficial for Mr W to continue 
with that part of the claim alone because the repair cost was less than the policy excess. 
Nevertheless, it was accepted, so I wont address this part of the claim any further.
The cause of damage to the glazed window units is in dispute.
Mr W said the storm mustve caused the damage because the windows were fine before, but 
misted over and full of condensation after the storms. esures in-house surveyor said a storm 
wouldnt cause the seals to fail.
So, to answer this question, I must rely on the only expert report available to me for 
consideration, which is that provided by esures surveyor. The report itself is a brief 
confirmation of findings and a series of photos rather than a lengthy documented account 
that Mr W mightve expected. Nevertheless, esure concluded that the glazed unit seals 
wouldnt fail because of vibrations or strong winds. And I note that reliable online sources 
describing typical storm damage do not include failure of glazed unit seals. 
Looking at the photos, I can see the damage Mr W refers to which is misting and 
condensation within the glazed units. The photos dont show any evidence of external 
damage to the window seals which could be expected if debris blown around during strong 
winds had struck them, causing the seals to fail. But the photos do show some evidence of 
what esure describes as wear and tear. The policy doesnt provide cover for wear and tear 
or gradual deterioration. Therefore, the evidence available doesnt persuade me that failed glazed unit seals is 
damage typically caused by a storm. In light of the evidence, Im satisfied that esure fairly 
concluded the most likely cause of damage was gradual deterioration of the seals.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
As Ive not answered yes to the second question, I can reasonably conclude that esure fairly 
declined Mr Ws claim. So, theres no reason for me to consider the third question.
Overall, Im satisfied that esure declined Mr Ws claim for storm damage fairly, based on 
expert evidence and in line with the terms of the policy. I wont be asking esure to reconsider 
the claim.
Moving on, Ill look at the complaints Mr W raised with esure about the way it handled his 
claim.
Missed appointment
Theres no dispute that esures surveyor missed the first planned appointment. I accept that 
wouldve caused Mr W some inconvenience and frustration, so Ive thought about this when 
deciding on the amount of compensation warranted.
Incorrect information
esures surveyor gave Mr W the wrong information about the outcome of his claim. I can 
understand he wouldve been upset to find out that his claim had been declined after the 
surveyor initially told him it was accepted. But for me to require any action of esure, Id have 
to see that Mr W suffered a significant loss because of the incorrect information. 
However, I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr W suffered financially because of 
esures mistake. He wouldve needed to carry out repairs at his own expense if esure had 
told him from the start that his claim was declined. Therefore, esures mistake didnt cause 
him any additional repair costs.
With that said, esures mistake was something that couldve been avoided, so I accept it 
caused Mr W inconvenience and frustration. Ive taken that into consideration when deciding 
on the compensation warranted.
Second opinion
Mr W complained that esure wouldnt arrange a second inspection after he disputed the 
outcome of the first surveyors report. esure said it would consider a second opinion if Mr W 
provided it with one.
esure appointed a surveyor to assess the damage, which is what I wouldve expected it to 
do. It declined Mr Ws claim because its expert concluded that the damage wasn't storm 
related. At this point, Im satisfied esure had fulfilled its responsibility under the policy. Its not 
unreasonable that Mr W wanted a second opinion, but I wouldnt expect esure to arrange 
and pay for that. If Mr W thought it had unfairly declined his claim, it was his responsibility to 
provide evidence to support his view. The only expectation Id have is that esure would 
consider any second opinion he provided fairly and in line with the policy. esure has already 
said it will consider anything Mr W provides.
I cant see that esure did anything wrong here.
Rebuttal
Mr W provided a copy of the documents originally considered by our investigator along with 
further comment about his complaint which he called his rebuttal. Having looked at the 
evidence, it relates to the cost of repairing or replacing his damaged windows using a company local to him. I note that the company refused to provide an investigation report on 
the cause of damage unless formally engaged to do so and after receipt of payment.
Having considered the evidence, Im afraid it doesnt persuade me that esure did anything 
wrong. Even if Mr W had provided an expert report giving a second opinion, which then 
changed the outcome of his claim, it wouldnt change the outcome of this complaint. Thats 
because I can only consider matters already brought to esures attention. esure told Mr W 
that it would consider a report if he provided one. But, regardless of whether its decision 
about Mr Ws claim changed as a result, it wouldnt change the fact that esure simply relied 
on the only expert evidence it had available when Mr W raised this complaint. Mr W would 
need to raise any new issues directly with esure.
Compensation
As Ive said, esure did make some mistakes when handling Mr Ws claim. It paid £100 
compensation in recognition of those service shortfalls. I accept that the missed appointment 
wouldve caused Mr W inconvenience and frustration, as would the surveyors mistake in 
providing incorrect information. I havent seen anything to indicate that either of these 
shortfalls caused Mr W any significant financial loss, so Im satisfied that the sum esure paid 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I wont be asking it to pay any more.
As an aside, Mr W said he couldnt find the payment in his account. I understand he has 
since received details of the account into which esure paid the compensation. My decision is 
based on the assumption that esure paid the compensation. Mr W hasnt come back to me 
to say he still couldnt find the payment, but if he remains concerned about receipt, he may 
wish to contact esure directly. 
In summary, while esure made some mistakes handling Mr Ws claim, Im satisfied that it 
paid appropriate compensation by way of apology. In terms of the claim itself, the evidence 
indicates that the damage wasn't typical of that caused by a storm, so Im satisfied esure 
declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy. I see no reason to require anything of 
esure in respect of Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman