DRN-3886279
The complaint
Mr D complains about the interest rate provided to him by HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as 
first direct, (first direct) following his application to it for a personal loan.
What happened
Mr D applied to first direct for a personal loan via its app in May 2022. He said that the app 
screen said "Total transparency at every stage. Our calculator will give you an accurate APR 
personalised to you." 
Mr D then went through the process of entering his personal details on the app screen and 
first directs loan quotation displayed an APR of 3.3%. Upon speaking to first directs 
underwriters some days afterwards, he was told the loan rate would be 5.49% and then 
5.9% within the space of one call. Mr D is concerned that the app promised a 'personalised' 
rate, yet the interest rate almost doubled after the point of application. Mr D is unhappy that 
first direct has refused to acknowledge that its wording was misleading, to accept any 
responsibility or to compensate him for the situation he is in.
first direct issued two final response letters. Its first letter said that with reference to any 
representative rates (such as 3.3% APR), it occasionally offered these to a percentage of 
eligible customers for a limited period of time. However, not all customers were eligible and, 
as such, the rate a customer ultimately received was subject to a formal credit assessment, 
their personal circumstances and other related factors. 
first direct said in its second final response letter that Mr D had provided it with a screen shot 
to evidence its loan offer of 3.3% APR. Having reviewed this, first direct said that the screen 
didn't confirm that it had offered Mr D the rate of 3.3%. It acknowledged that the quotation 
provided online was based on this rate, however the loan application was subject to 
assessment. After a full assessment of Mr Ds application, he was then eligible for a 
representative rate of 5.9% APR
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr D disagreed. He said that the crux of his complaint was the wording of the application 
information which appeared to offer an APR personalised for him and so was misleading if 
this wasnt the case. He also said that the investigators view referred to first directs website 
application whereas he had applied via first directs app. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ds strength of feeling about what happened. I may not mention 
everything Mr D has told us, but I have carefully considered everything hes said and 
provided us. No discourtesy is intended by that, it just reflects our role as a quick and 
informal service.
The starting point here is that first direct is entitled to decide on the rate of interest it offers 
customers. So, what Ive considered is whether first direct mislead Mr D or acted unfairly in 
any other way as a part of the application he made. As Mr D told us that the investigator had 
referred to first directs website application pages (and not the app screens), I asked the 
investigator to ask first direct for a copy of its app loan application screens from around the 
time Mr D had applied for the loan. I have reviewed these. I note the following from the 
screens:-
- On the section of the screen from the app headed Total transparency at every stage, I 
note under this it says Our calculator will give you an accurate APR, personalised to 
you. Remember, all credit is subject to status, Terms and Conditions apply. 
I dont think this screen was misleading as it refers to the credit being subject to status. I 
understand that this means that the success of the loan application will be subject to 
certain factors, for example the applicants income and credit history. And factors like 
these can affect not just the success of the loan application but also the interest rate to 
be charged by a lender.
- Under the heading Calculate your loan there is a link to find out more about your 
rates and then to *rates and then to loan rates. Under the listed minimum and 
maximum APRs for various loan amount bands, it says The rate we may offer could be 
higher than the advertised annual percentage rate (APR). An approved rate will be 
based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances, including a credit 
check should you choose to apply. The loan amount you request will also impact the 
rate offered.
I think this wording makes it clear to a consumer that the APR they receive may be 
higher than the advertised APR and will be based on the consumers financial 
circumstances.  
I also understand that there are rules governing how APRs must be displayed. And a 
representative APR is the rate 51% of successful applicants will be given. The other 
49% of applicants could get a different rate or be rejected. Whilst an advertised APR 
can help consumers compare loan products, it isnt necessarily the interest rate that a 
consumer will receive. So again, I dont think first direct has acted unfairly here.
- At the bottom of the screen on which the Representative Example box appears, it says 
Its worth bearing in mind the checks we carry out and the amount you want to borrow 
can affect the APR we offer.
I think this wording again should inform the consumer that first directs checks can affect 
the APR for a loan. 
- The consumer then provides their details on the screen. It says on the screen We need 
to check to make sure the loan is affordable. After you agree and submit well carry out 
our standard checks. 
Overall, I think there was sufficient information provided by first direct on several of the app 
screens to inform a consumer that the interest rate shown on the Representative Example and on the Calculate your Loan screen was not necessarily the interest rate he would 
receive.
first direct has also provided this Service with the screens it uses where it makes a counter-
offer to a consumer. These show the approved offer interest rate and the original quoted 
interest rate. I can see that Mr D received a similar screen from first direct when it offered 
him a loan with an APR of 5.9% as an approved offer. So, I dont think it was inappropriate of 
first direct to show both rates on that screen.
As Mr D might not have seen the screens first direct had sent this Service, I asked the 
investigator to send these to him for his comments before I made my decision. 
Mr D responded to say that he had been through the banks calculator which was supposed 
to be personal to him. I can see that first direct had commented that the application was 
subject to assessment and I have said above that there is wording which makes it clear to a 
consumer that all credit is subject to status.  
Mr D also referred to a screen hed obtained from first direct as part of a DSAR disclosure. 
This screen was dated 5 May 2022 and showed loan details including the loan amount, loan 
repayment amounts and a rate of 3.3%. Mr D said that this screen wasnt taken from a 
representative page and had been issued after hed answered all the questions as part of 
the application. I can see that the screen content appeared to be a memo and included a 
note that the memo description was a credit check consent. It refers to consent having been 
received. And I note from first directs case notes that it said that this screen looked like the 
memo from the application on 5 May 2022 which was then subject to assessment. I can also 
see from first directs contact notes that Mr D phoned it on 10 May 2022 to chase the 
outcome of his loan application and he was told it hadnt yet been assessed. So, I cant say 
that the banks internal memo dated 5 May 2022 was evidence that Mr D was guaranteed to 
receive an APR of 3.3% on his loan as his application was still subject to assessment at that 
date.
 
Mr D has recently told this Service that another lender (L) had failed to remove certain 
information from Mr Ds credit file. Mr D believes that information would have caused first 
direct to apply a higher interest rate than advertised following his loan application. He asked 
first direct to provide a letter to give to L to say that first directs decision was impacted solely 
due to information L had recorded against him. 
But first direct said it couldnt confirm if an issue at the credit reference agencies affected the 
rate it offered. Whilst it appreciated credit file information did have a bearing on an 
application, it wasnt possible to say for sure how this was generated as the application was 
run through an internal and external score card which was commercially sensitive and which 
generated the result of the application. It couldnt say for sure if information provided by a 
financial institution caused the result. I dont think in these circumstances that first direct 
acted inappropriately by not agreeing to Mr Ds request to provide a letter for L.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D. But overall, I dont think that first direct has acted unfairly here. 
So, Im not asking first direct to take any further action.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, and so I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman