DRN-3201155
The complaint
Mr G complains NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (NewDay) lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr G applied for a credit card with NewDay in May 2012. His application was approved with 
a credit limit of £400. Mr G requested a credit limit increase to £750 in October 2012, which 
was granted by NewDay.
In June 2014 NewDay wrote to Mr G to say it wanted to increase his credit limit to £1,500. It 
explained it had looked at how youve managed your credit card and believe that the new 
limit is suitable for you. It said would be increasing his credit limit to £1,500 unless he opted 
out. Mr G didnt opt out and the limit was therefore increased to £1,500.
Mr G had various problems with repayments over the next few years, and the account was 
terminated in November 2017, although it appears NewDay did not record it as having 
defaulted until early in 2019. The debt was sold to another company which took Mr G to 
court for the balance.
I issued a previous decision on this case in which I explained this service had the jurisdiction 
to consider Mr Gs complaint. The case was then returned to our investigator to look into the 
merits of Mr Gs complaint of irresponsible lending.
Our investigator thought NewDays decisions to agree the initial credit limit was not 
irresponsible. However, he didnt think it had been responsible to increase Mr Gs limit as the 
way the account had been managed at the lower credit limit didnt suggest he would be able 
to sustainably manage an increased limit.
NewDay disagreed. It said its credit checks hadnt shown any cause for concern, and 
although it accepted Mr G had incurred a lot of charges for going over his credit limit, this 
was because of how he was timing his repayments, not because he was struggling to 
maintain them. NewDay asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so the complaint has 
been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable or irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive considered this when deciding Mr Gs complaint.
The rules and regulations in place throughout NewDays lending relationship with Mr G 
required it to carry out an assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner. Any such assessment needed to be borrower focused, meaning it 
should focus on the affordability of repayments and the potential for adverse financial impact 
on the borrower, rather than on the likelihood the credit would be repaid. Any assessment 
needed to be proportionate to the circumstances.
The initial credit limit
NewDay hasnt been able to explain what information was considered at the point of Mr Gs 
original application. It appears a copy of the application is no longer available. Given how 
long ago this decision was made, this is perhaps not surprising. 
In any event, Id have expected NewDay to at least have asked Mr G about his income 
before lending to him. Mr G has told us he was earning £27,000 at the time. Given the 
relatively small credit limit granted of £400, and the absence of any other information to 
suggest it wouldnt have been responsible to grant this to Mr G, I conclude this lending 
decision was not irresponsible.
The increase to £750
At the time Mr G applied for an increase in his credit limit to £750, he had been running the 
credit card account for about five months, and this would have given a responsible lender 
some early insights into how he was managing the line of credit. This is something it could 
factor into its decision to increase the limit or not, perhaps by helping it to determine what 
manner of checks would be proportionate before making a decision. And depending on how 
the account had been managed, it might also be enough on its own to lead a responsible 
lender to decide that increasing the limit would likely be harmful.
So what had Mr Gs account management looked like in the five months hed had the 
account? By August 2012 he had exceeded his credit limit, incurring two overlimit fees that 
month. He went over his limit again in September 2012 before applying for the increase the 
following month. He was, however, making his minimum repayments. I dont think, on the 
face of it, that Mr Gs account management up to that point suggested he would be able to 
sustainably manage an increased limit of £750. I note NewDay did carry out checks with a 
credit reference agency at the time which it appears showed he had no credit card debts or 
arrears elsewhere. But I do think the way he was managing his account with NewDay should 
have been a cause for concern that he was struggling financially.
NewDay has said it was the interest being applied to the account which was causing Mr G to 
go over his limit, rather than (for example) him spending in excess of the limit. This appears 
to have been correct in some months. But I think the important point is that Mr G had maxed 
out the card in a short space of time, and he had gone over his limit three times in two 
months. Regardless of the reason for the account going over the limit, I think the way the 
account had been managed up to that point suggested increasing the limit could be harmful, 
and the payments Mr G was making were insufficient to prevent him from being over his limit 
once interest had been taken into account. I dont think NewDays decision to increase the 
limit to £750 was responsible.
The increase to £1,500
Immediately after Mr Gs limit increased to £750 in October 2012, he borrowed up to his new 
limit. Some of the new borrowing took the form of cash withdrawals. He went over his credit 
limit twice in November 2012, and then once in each of the following three months. He 
consistently only made his minimum repayments. 
The same pattern continued throughout 2013 and 2014, with occasional breaks where Mr G 
remained within his limit for three to four months. He didnt make any inroads into his 
balance, as any progress he made tended to be neutralised by overlimit fees and interest. 
NewDay offered to double Mr Gs limit to £1,500 in June 2014, after he had managed to 
avoid overlimit fees for a period of about four months, and his balance had begun to reduce 
slightly. By the time NewDay offered the £1,500 limit, it had the benefit of a longer period of time in 
which to have gained an understanding of how Mr G was managing the account. In my view, 
Mr G had managed the £750 limit in more or less the same way he had managed the £400 
limit. He had quickly used up the limit, and then spent significant periods of time over it. 
Once he had made enough repayments to go under his limit, he spent back up to it shortly 
after. He was making only the minimum repayments throughout. Unlike with his earlier credit 
limit, Mr G was also occasionally withdrawing cash. And while Mr G had spent four months 
under his limit when NewDay made the decision to offer the increase to £1,500, I dont think 
this was enough for an assumption to be made that his situation was improving or that he 
would find sustainable a credit limit twice as large as his current one. It follows that I dont 
find the decision to increase the limit to £1,500 was responsible either.
Putting things right
Just because NewDay increased Mr Gs credit limit when it shouldnt have, doesnt mean 
that he should not pay back the capital amounts hes borrowed. However, it wouldnt be fair 
for him to have to pay any interest, fees or charges on amounts hes borrowed above the 
initial limit of £400, or have this borrowing affect his credit file adversely.
I note Mr G says he was taken to court after NewDay sold his outstanding debt to another 
company, and he now has a county court judgment registered against him. I havent seen 
evidence of this judgment, or who obtained it, but it seems that it wasnt NewDay. I also dont 
have powers to set aside court judgments. Mr G would need to take separate advice about 
that if he is seeking to have the judgment set aside.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to take the 
following actions:
A) Refund all interest, fees and charges incurred on Mr Gs credit card account on any 
balance over £400, from the point of the first credit limit increase onwards. All refunds 
should be backdated to the date the interest, fees or charges were originally incurred.
B) If refunding the amount(s) in A would result in a credit balance on the account, 
NewDay must pay Mr G that credit balance along with 8% simple interest per year* 
calculated from the date a credit balance would have arisen, to the date it would have 
ceased to exist. If the credit balance would not have ceased to exist, the interest 
calculation should go up to the date Mr G receives any refunds he is due. If Mr G no 
longer owes a balance then he must no longer be pursued for the debt.
C) Remove any negative information it has recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to 
the account, from the time of the first credit limit increase onwards.
D) Work with any company it has sold the debt to, to achieve steps A to C. For example, 
NewDay will need to obtain up to date statements of the account to properly calculate 
the refund in A. It may also be necessary for NewDay to buy the debt back to ensure 
that no further collections activity takes place in the event of a credit balance, or that 
negative information is removed from Mr Gs credit file. 
*If NewDay considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman