DRN-3415088
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs M are being represented on this complaint. 
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a travel insurance policy which is underwritten by UKI. On 27 June 2020, 
they booked flights to their intended destination and they were due to travel on 19 July 2021 
and return on 2 August 2021.
The destination they were due to travel to was on the amber list of countries at the time of 
their departure. They were required to self-isolate upon their return to the UK, which they 
werent able to do so they decided to cancel their flights. They submitted a claim on their 
travel insurance policy to UKI for the cost of the flights.
UKI assessed the claim but declined it. It said there was advice in place from the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office (FCO)  known now as the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) against all but essential travel at the time Mr and Mrs M booked 
the flights in June 2020. It excluded the claim because it said the event that led to the 
cancellation was anticipated and there was no cover for this under their policy.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. He didnt think UKI had declined the claim unfairly. He said while 
there was cover for the FCDO advising against all but essential travel under Mr and Mrs Ms 
policy, this was only if the event that led to the cancellation was not anticipated. He also 
explained that the reason Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip was because they had to self-
isolate when they returned to the UK and this wasnt covered on the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy as this forms the 
basis of their contract with UKI. 
The cancellation section of the policy on page 13 sets out what cover is available and what 
isnt. This says:
Part 1  Covers For Your Trip
Section A Cancelling Your Trip (before you are due to start your trip)
What is covered
We will cover you for your:
 unused deposits;
 accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities); and
 unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your trip 
for one of the following reasons:
 One of the following people dies, is seriously injured or is seriously ill:
 any insured person;
 your travelling companion;
 a close relative;
 a close business associate; or
 anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with.
 One of the following people is quarantined, is called for jury service or is called as a 
witness in a court of law:
 any insured person;
 your travelling companion; or
 anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with.
 One of the following people is made redundant and registered for a Jobseekers 
Agreement with the Department for Work & Pensions, or is a member of the British 
armed forces or Emergency Services and authorised leave is cancelled due to an 
unexpected emergency:
 any insured person; or
 your travelling companion.
 One of the following people is required to stay at their home as a result of it being 
seriously damaged by fire, storm, flood or due to a burglary in the seven days before 
departure on your trip:
 any insured person; or
 your travelling companion.
 Your pet cat or dog requiring life saving treatment in the seven days before your 
departure on your trip.
 Your passport or visa being stolen in a burglary in the seven days before your 
departure on your trip and you being unable to arrange a replacement in time.
 The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into force 
after you opened your Silver account or booked your trip (whichever was the later) 
and was in the 28 days before your departure on your trip.
 You are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation because the 
accommodation or immediately surrounding area is adversely affected by natural 
disaster.
The most we will pay
The most we will pay for each insured person is £5,000.
[]
What is not covered
We will not cover: the excess amount. This is £75 for every claim for each insured person;
 any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere;
 an anticipated event;
 anything mentioned in the General Exclusions section of this policy; []
Mr and Mrs M cancelled their flights because they had to self-isolate when they returned to 
the UK. The country they were intending to travel to was on the amber list. So, although 
they decided to cancel their trip, they were still able to travel to the country and the FCDO 
hadnt advised against it. The flight they were due to take also went ahead. 
I can see that both cancellation due to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel and 
cancellation due to an area affected by a natural disaster such as a pandemic is covered on 
the policy. But neither of these were reasons why Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip. The 
reason Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip  that they had to self-isolate - isnt a listed, insured 
event under the cancellation section of their policy. They cancelled it because they didnt 
want to self-isolate when they returned to the UK. Travel to their intended destination was 
still permitted. And while I understand why they cancelled and the reasons for the choice 
they made, based on the above policy terms and conditions, there is no cover for the reason 
Mr and Mrs M decided to cancel their trip. 
UKI has said, additionally, that an anticipated event is not covered. Anticipated event is 
defined in the policy as:
Anticipated event  any event or occurrence which you or your immediate family 
knew would occur or could reasonably have expected to occur during your trip and 
which you or your immediate family were aware of at the time you became an 
insured person or the date when you booked your trip, whichever is later.
Mr and Mrs M booked the trip when the FCDO was advising against all but essential travel in 
June 2020. At this point, Mr and Mrs M would have had some awareness that they were 
unable to travel to their destination. So there would have been a reasonable expectation 
they might have to cancel the trip based on their awareness of what the FCDO was advising 
in June 2020. I dont think that UKI has excluded the claim unfairly on this basis. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M say they werent aware of the FCDO advice at the time of their 
booking. I understand, but, at the very least, during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, 
travellers were asked to refer to the FDCO website for the latest travel advice as it was 
changing all the time. I think it would be reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to anticipate that 
further travel restrictions might have come into place at the time of their departure. The 
FCDO was advising against all but essential travel in June 2020. And as the flights were 
booked at this point, this would be considered an anticipated event. 
But the key issue here is that the trip was cancelled because the country Mr and Mrs M were 
due to travel to was put on the amber list. This meant that self-isolation was required upon 
their return to the UK. So, travel was still allowed to their intended destination and there was 
no advice from the FCDO against this. As Mr and Mrs M werent able to self-isolate  for 
reasons which I completely understand  they cancelled their trip. And its this reason that 
isnt a listed, insured event under the cancellation section of their policy. As such theres no 
cover for what happened in Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, and I dont think therefore that 
the claim has been declined unfairly or unreasonably by UKI. 
Overall, taking everything into account, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I dont 
think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to accept the claim. 
It follows that I dont require UKI to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman