DRN-3985086
The complaint
The estate of Mr P is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt include the requested reference 
details when making a payment to its solicitors.
What happened
Following the death of Mr P, Lloyds transferred money from the late Mr Ps account to the 
solicitors appointed by the estate. The solicitors asked Lloyds to reference the payment with 
a specific reference number as well as with Lloyds. But when Lloyds sent the payment, they 
included the reference number only, and didnt identify themselves as a second part of the 
reference as requested. 
This caused the solicitors to have to take time to identify the received payment, the cost of 
which was then passed on to the estate. The estate of Mr P wasnt happy about this, so it 
authorised the solicitors to raise a complaint on its behalf. 
Lloyds looked at this complaint. But they felt that reference number theyd included should 
have reasonably been enough for the solicitors to have identified the payment, and so didnt 
uphold the complaint. The estate of Mr P wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so they 
referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their review, it was agreed by 
Lloyds that they should have included the exact reference requested by the solicitor when 
making the payment, and so they agreed to reimburse the requested costs to the estate. 
However, the estate of Mr P also wanted Lloyds to reimburse the further costs that had been 
incurred by the estate surrounding its bringing the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt feel it was reasonable to expect Lloyds to cover these further costs, 
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have agreed to reimburse the £177 plus VAT that the estate of Mr P was originally 
seeking. As such, I wont comment further on this aspect of the estates complaint, other 
than to confirm that I will be upholding this complaint in the estates favour on that basis.
However, I wont be instructing Lloyds to take any further action beyond this reimbursement, 
and this includes that I wont be instructing Lloyds to cover any further costs that the estate 
of Mr P may have incurred in bringing this complaint to this service. 
The main reason for my position here is that Im satisfied that any further costs the estate 
may have incurred in this regard were reasonably avoidable and could have been mitigated 
against. 
This is because this service is free service, and it doesnt seem either fair or reasonable to 
me to expect Lloyds to cover avoidable costs incurred by the estate resultant from its 
decision to instruct a fee-charging third-party to bring its complaint to this free service on its 
behalf. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that any costs the estate of Mr P may have incurred in this regard 
should fairly be incurred by the estate itself. 
I realise this wont be the outcome the estate of Mr P was wanting, but I hope it will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision here that I have.
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a payment of £177 plus VAT to the estate of Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman