DRN-1397526
complaint
Miss Hs complaint is about four loans she took with Gain Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream. Miss H says these loans were unaffordable and given to her irresponsibly. 
background
Lending Stream provided Miss H with four instalment loans between November 2015 and 
April 2016. Miss Hs borrowing history is detailed below:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
Combined 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 12/11/2015 Not Closed 6 £270.00 £115.92
2 09/01/2016 Not Closed 6 £100.00 £134.92
3 20/03/2016 Not Closed 6 £50.00 £119.80
4 09/04/2016 Not Closed 6 £200.00 £153.40
 
An adjudicator reviewed the case and wrote to Miss H and explained why she didnt think 
Lending Stream was wrong to give her the first three loans. The adjudicator explained that 
for all three loans Lending Stream had gathered an appropriate amount of information and 
the loans were affordable based on what Miss H told them. 
The adjudicator thought that Lending Stream needed to do more when it provided Miss H 
with loan 4 and she recommended Lending Stream make an offer on this loan. Lending 
Stream agreed with the adjudicators recommendations and made an offer to Miss H that 
was in line with her adjudication. 
Miss H did not agree with the adjudicators view and chose not to accept the offer. Miss H 
explained that she was in financial difficulties so the all loans shouldnt have been provided. 
She also explained she had multiple loans with other lenders and struggled to repay the 
loans Lending Stream provided to her. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about all of this, I think the recommendation the adjudicator made 
to Lending Stream about loan 4 is the appropriate way to resolve this complaint. And I dont 
think Lending Stream has treated Miss H unfairly or that it should pay her compensation for 
loans 1-3. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss H and Id like to explain why I 
think this is the case.
Miss H was provided with three high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So 
Lending Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether any lending was sustainable for Miss H before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders 
checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be 
less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify 
that information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In her complaint Miss H says she struggled from the outset to repay her loans and Lending 
Stream didnt consider the impact giving her the loans was having on her finances. She says 
had Lending Stream carried out checks it wouldve seen her financial situation was 
deteriorating. Lending Stream says that it carried out adequate checks  by gathering details 
of Miss Hs income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check. And based on this 
Lending Stream says it didnt see anything to alert it to any sustainability or affordability 
issues for the loans it gave Miss H.
Its important to note that when Miss H took out her first loan with Lending Stream it doesnt 
seem that he had an existing relationship with them. The first loan was to be repaid over 6 
instalments of £115.92. Miss H had told Lending Stream that her monthly income was 
around £900 and after expenses she had a disposable income of £536 a month. Based on 
this information it seems that loan 1 was affordable for Miss H. The credit check Lending 
Stream carried didnt show any recent defaults on Miss Hs record. So I cant see anything to 
suggest Lending Stream shouldve been aware of Miss Hs financial issues at this stage. 
Loan 2 was taken out just under two months after Miss Hs first and was for under half the 
amount Miss H had borrowed for loan 1. This loan was also due to be repaid over 6 months 
and Miss Hs declared income had significantly increased to £1,600 a month whilst her 
expenditure had remained broadly the same. Loan 1 was still running and Miss H had made 
a late payment. But this alone wouldnt be reason enough for Lending Stream to decline 
Miss Hs application, especially given the increase in her income and the fact the loan was 
for a much smaller amount. So based on this it seems reasonable for Lending Stream to 
have approved Miss Hs application. 
Loan 3 was also taken out a few months after loan 2 and was for £50. Mis Hs income and 
expenditure remained roughly the same as it was for loan 2. And although Miss H had loans 
1 and 2 still running the combined repayments for all three loans of £119.80 was still 
affordable for Miss H. At this stage Miss H had paid a late fee on loan 1, but the default markers for loan 1 and 2 were only entered onto Miss Hs credit report after this loan was 
applied for. 
So, looking at the monthly repayments in light of Miss Hs declared disposable income its 
difficult for me to conclude that Lending Stream was wrong to decide that the repayments for 
all three loans would be affordable sustainably for Miss H. I note what he says about having 
multiple other pay day loans and having financial issues. But Lending Stream carried out 
credit checks on Miss H when she took out the loans. And looking at the results of these 
there isnt anything on them that wouldve alerted Lending Stream to the extent of these 
issues. So, I dont think there were adequate signs which shouldve led Lending Stream to 
do more checks and Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that it acted 
irresponsibly in Miss Hs case for loans 1-3. 
By the time Miss H applied for loan 4 I think Lending Stream shouldve been looking to build 
up a clearer picture of Miss Hs finances. Miss H had three loans running concurrently and 
the amount she was requesting had increased. As the adjudicator explained, there was 
enough information at this stage to alert Lending Stream to the possibility that Miss H was 
having issues managing her finances. Especially as her credit check wouldve revealed the 
problems she was having with loans 1-3. 
Lending Stream made an offer in line with the adjudicators recommendations which Miss H 
did not accept. I think this offer is a fair way to resolve Miss Hs case and so Lending Stream 
should put things right as set out below. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream need to do
Lending Stream shouldnt have given Miss H loan 4.
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss H 
towards interest, fees and charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding 
balance, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Miss H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss 
H originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
any upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss H as though 
they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in 
Miss H having made overpayments then Lending Stream should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move 
to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss H. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss H..
E. Lending Stream should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Hs 
credit file in relation to loan 4. If Lending stream has sold the loan it should ask the 
debt purchaser to do the same. Lending Stream do not have to remove any outstanding loans from Miss Hs credit file until these have been repaid, but it should 
still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
 
*HMRC requires you to take off tax from this interest. If Miss H asks Lending Stream for a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, it should provide this. If Lending Stream use 
the refund to reduce an amount Miss H owes, it must do this after tax.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint against Gain Credit LLC and it 
should put things right for Miss H as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman