DRN-3774324
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc blocked her account.
What happened
Miss A had an account with Santander. 
On 17 November 2021, Miss A received two payments from a family member, who Ill call B. 
B sent Miss A £1,500 and £3,770. Miss A then immediately tried to send these funds to Bs 
sister, who Ill call C. Santander blocked Miss As account and contacted Miss A and asked 
her to provide further information about these two credits. 
Miss A said that B had sold a car and transferred the money to Miss A so she could pass 
this on to C. Santander asked Miss A for further details of the payment  and so Miss A 
provided some information. Santander then carried out its review, and on 14 December 2021 
unblocked the account.
While this had been happening Miss A complained to Santander and referred the complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and concluded Santander had been acting in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed the account. And while she 
accepted that Miss A found this all frustrating, she thought that Santander had carried out 
the review in a timely manner.
Miss A didnt agree with the investigator. In particular, she says that Santander gave her 
incorrect information about the time the review would take. She says she wasnt allowed to 
withdraw benefits during this period which caused her hardship and meant she had to set up 
a new account. And she says it meant she had to visit branch at a time when she had a 
injury that made this difficult.
As the investigator couldnt resolve matters informally, the complaint has been referred to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses, like Santander, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These require Santander to monitor its customers transactions and may mean 
it needs to review an account at any time. Where Santander does this it doesnt need to give 
reasons. And the same legal and regulatory requirements mean that Santander may need to 
block an account when it carried out an investigation.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Santander was acting in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it reviewed and blocked Miss As account. 
Santander then carried out its review. Id expect Santander to carry out any review in a 
timely manner. Ive thought about what Miss A has said about that. She says she was told 
reviews would be completed within a couple of days. Here the review took much longer  
almost a month. I appreciate the length of the review caused Miss A inconvenience. But 
looking at everything, Im not persuaded this delay was avoidable, or that the review should 
have been completed any quicker than it was. And so while I accept this would have been 
inconvenient to Miss A, this isnt something I can fairly award compensation for.
Finally, Miss A says the block to her account meant she couldnt access her benefits. Based 
on the statements, I can see that Miss A was able to withdraw her child benefit payments in 
branch. I note she was also able to arrange for her universal credit to be transferred to 
another account. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman