DRN-1242539
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about the valuation that esure Insurance Limited placed on her car under 
her motor insurance policy. Shes also unhappy that it said her car was uneconomical to 
repair. 
What happened
Miss Bs car was damaged in an incident and it was taken to esures approved garage for 
repair. But the engineer said it was beyond economical repair. esure offered Miss B £10,124, 
less the policy excess, as its pre-accident market value. It deducted £240 for pre-accident 
damage. But Miss B said she couldnt replace her car for less that £12,500 and shed just 
had new tyres fitted. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
had correctly valued the car using the motor trade guides according to our approach. She 
checked these and she thought esures valuation fell within the range they provided. So she 
thought this was fair and reasonable. She also thought esure could rely on its engineers 
assessment that the car was uneconomical to repair. She didnt think esure was responsible 
for other costs Miss B incurred. 
Miss B replied that the valuation didnt take into account the cars extras. She said the car 
didnt have any pre-accident damage. She said shed wanted her car repaired but esure had 
treated her unfairly and had exaggerated the cost of repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss B feels frustrated and disappointed with esures decisions. Shes 
said she valued her car and just wanted it to be repaired. I can see that the claim has 
caused her stress and upset on top of her injury in the incident. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Miss B said her car was valued at £12,500 when she took out her cover and she thought 
esure should honour this. But I can see that Miss Bs policy doesnt provide for an agreed 
value in the case of total loss. It provides for the cars market value. So I wouldnt expect 
esure to rely on the figure Miss B provided when she first took out the policy.  Our investigator thought esures valuation was fair and reasonable. Ive looked at how she 
came to this conclusion. I can see that she looked for valuations in the trade guides we use 
for cars of the same make, model, age, condition and mileage as Miss Bs car. I can see that 
esures valuations also took into account the cars extensive extras and these added little to 
the overall valuation. I dont think this is unusual. Also, having new tyres wouldnt increase 
the cars valuation as this would be regarded as essential maintenance. 
Miss B provided an ad for the replacement car she bought that shows it cost more than 
esures offer for her car. But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these 
are essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade 
guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
esures offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the motor trade guides. It 
had offered Miss B their average. So I think its valuation offer was fair and reasonable as it 
was made correctly according to our approach and the policy terms and conditions. And so I 
dont require it to increase this. 
esure deducted £240 for pre-accident damage. Its provided an engineers report with details 
of how this was calculated. The engineers report specifies repairs are needed to three alloy 
wheels and one scratch on the bodywork. These are costed at £480. Our approach is that a 
deduction for 50% of the repair costs for damage that isnt due to reasonable wear and tear 
is fair and reasonable. 
Miss B said the damage wasnt there beforehand and could have been caused by the 
recovery. But I havent seen evidence to show this. Miss B provided photographs of her car, 
but Ive seen more detailed ones from esures engineer that show the damage. So I cant 
say it was unfair for esure to deduct half the repair costs from its settlement. 
Miss B was also unhappy that esure decided that her car was beyond economical repair. 
This was based on its engineers assessment of the repair costs. Miss B provided texts from 
her own engineer offering to repair her car for less than esures estimate. These were based 
on a review of photographs and esures engineers report. 
Miss Bs engineer said hell reduce costs by using used parts and the final estimate might 
increase after inspection. But esures engineer relied on using new parts following his 
inspection. So I cant say that Miss Bs engineers report provides sufficient reason for esure 
to change its decision to rely on its engineers report and declare the car a total loss. 
Miss B thought the deduction for pre-accident damage was added to ensure the car was 
beyond economical repair. But I havent seen evidence to show this. Miss B said the 
engineer told her that its easier to write off than repair a car. But I dont have evidence to 
show that this affected the assessment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21August2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman