DRN-3883220
The complaint
Miss S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen 
Financial Services (VFS) refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In September 2020 Miss S acquired a new car cost £26,824 funded by a deposit and a hire 
purchase agreement. Shortly after this she encountered a number of issues seemingly 
connected to the infotainment and electronics systems.
The information this service has received has been piecemeal and the business supplied the 
repair history for a different car, but Miss S and the business have given us some material 
which shows that the car was back in the garage on several occasions.
I have noted that Miss S formally rejected the car on 26 February 2021 citing the following 
reasons:
Car alarm going off for no reason
Travel assistance going off
Front and rear assistance going off
Lane assistance does not work
Parking sensor intermittently do not work
Automatic emergency brake applied when reversing
Dashboard display  radio  telephone not working
At the time of rejection Miss S says the car had been back to the garage twice. This rejection 
request was refused and I can see that the car was back in the garage in August, October, 
November and December 2021. During this period some faults were identified and 
addressed, but others could not be replicated and so were not repaired.
Since then Miss S has sent this service photographic evidence in support of her claim that 
the car continued to be faulty. In December 2021 she says the hazard warning was limited, 
the parking brake not working and the parking sensor wasnt working. In January 2021 she 
says the travel assistance warning wasnt working, there was no radio or phone function, 
random hazard lights came on and the lane assistance not working.
Miss S contacted VWFS, but it rejected her complaint in April 2021 as it said the garage had 
been unable to find most of the faults. It said those which had been found had been 
repaired. She brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She accepted that the faults which had 
been found had been repaired and the others could not be found by the garage.
Miss S continued to submit evidence of the ongoing issues as set out above.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
As our investigator has said it is clear that the car was faulty at the point of sale. The car was 
new and it is expected that it should perform without fault. However, that is not the case. I 
can see that it has been returned to the garage on multiple occasions and repairs have been 
carried out on at least two of those visits.
Miss S asked to reject the car within six months and the onus is on the garage and VWFS to 
demonstrate it is of satisfactory quality. I do not consider it has done so. The garage is 
entitled to one attempt at a repair and I consider it has had several opportunities to rectify 
the problems and this had not resulted in the car working as it should.
I believe the faults continue to show up and it seems there is a significant fault or series of 
faults with the infotainment and electronic systems. I believe the model has had some issues 
with these systems and several of the problems Miss S encountered in the earlier months of 
use have persisted. I do not consider this to fair or reasonable. She should have trouble free 
use of the new car.
I do not consider it sufficient for the garage to rely on its inability to identify the faults when 
the evidence presented by Miss S shows there are ongoing intermittent faults. As I have said 
the garage is entitled to one attempt at repair and if that fails it is open to Miss S to reject the 
car and I think this is reasonable.
VFS said its only comment was that any faults needed to be confirmed by a Volkswagen 
dealership in a workshop. This was to ensure the vehicle is being operated correctly in a 
controlled environment. I notified VFS that my final decision as things stood was rejection 
and offered it the opportunity to comment further, but it has not done so. Miss S has sought 
and early resolution of the matter.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The responses from both parties have not given me reason to alter my provisional decision. I 
can see no reason why the matter should be prolonged by an examination by a dealer. It 
and VFS have had the opportunity to resolve the issue and I consider that rejection is now 
the best resolution. 
Putting things right
Miss S should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and  I direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen Financial Services to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Arrange for the collection of the car.
Refund the deposit paid by Miss S and 10% of the monthly payments she has made 
to date.
It should pay annual simple interest at 8% on those refunded payments from the date 
paid until repaid. 
Any adverse entry made on her credit file (if any) in relation to this finance agreement 
should be removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman