DRN-3669978
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr D says that Lloyds provided him with an overdraft when he was quite young, and he feels 
this was too large and the start of his issues. He says the cost of the overdraft meant he 
needed to take out further loans. Mr D says that as Lloyds had access to his account it 
would have seen he was struggling but it still provided him with two loans. After a period of 
time he contacted Lloyds to explain his situation and to ask for a lower interest rate 
consolidation loan, but he says Lloyds offered him a loan at a higher rate of interest. Mr D 
says Lloyds hasnt treated him fairly and his debts have caused him health issues.
Lloyds said that before lending it carries out a credit scoring process. This involves 
assessing information provided by the applicant, information from the credit reference 
agencies and other information that it knows about the customer. It said that Mr D applied for 
the loans through internet banking and declared his income as £1,188 and £1,300 
respectively for the March 2019 and August 2019 loans. It didnt accept that the loans were 
unaffordable.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that Mr Ds complaint about his 
overdrafts had been dealt with separately and so his view related to the two loans Lloyds 
provided to Mr D. He thought the checks carried out before providing the loans were 
proportionate and that Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong by providing the loans. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. He noted that his complaint about the 
overdrafts had been upheld and said that Lloyds didnt carry out adequate checks before 
providing the loans. He said had it done so it would have seen the loans were unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, Lloyds has explained that it assessed information from the credit 
reference agencies as well as information provided by Mr D. Lloyds hasnt provided a copy 
of its credit checks and so Ive relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr D. I think this 
gives a good indication of what Lloyds would likely have seen. At the time of the March 2019 
application it shows that Mr D had current accounts, a hire purchase agreement (as well as 
another hire purchase agreement that was settled in March 2019), a credit card, an 
insurance contract and another loan. This resulted in total monthly credit commitments of 
around £315 (excluding the agreement settled in March 2019 and his credit card 
repayments). He was managing his accounts well and no adverse information was recorded. 
Therefore, I do not find that his credit report raised concerns that would have required further 
checks to have taken place.
Lloyds said that Mr Ds income in March 2019 was £1,188 and after his expenses he had 
disposable income of around £593. The monthly repayments were around £171. Given the 
size and duration of the agreement - and noting the credit report didnt raise concerns - I find 
these checks were proportionate. Lloyds has said it considers the information available to it 
so I have looked through Mr Ds Lloyds bank statements from the time to see if they support 
these figures. Having done so I find the income figure is supported by Mr Ds bank 
statements. Mr D had limited committed expenditure but taking into account his credit 
commitments and the additional payments shown through is statements I do not find that 
that I can say that the loan was unaffordable.
In August 2019, Mr D took out a new loan which repaid his previous loan and provided 
additional funds. This increased his monthly repayments from around £171 (March 2019 
loan) to around £209. The interest rate was slightly lower on the August loan than the March 
loan. Mr Ds credit report didnt raise concerns. Lloyds assessed Mr Ds monthly income, 
which had increased to £1,300 and this is supported by his bank statements. His bank 
statements didnt show many regular commitments aside from his credit commitments and 
based on this I do not find I can say that Lloyds should have considered the agreement 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, while I understand the issues Mr D has raised, having looked at the checks 
carried out before the two loans were provided and the information these showed, I do not 
find I can say that Lloyds should have considered the lending unaffordable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman