DRN-3343395
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs B are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around October 2016, Mr and Mrs B were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs B decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In February 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs B to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity, saving money on their electricity bills;
the system would be self-funding;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings would provide enough income (£40 per month in 
the first year) to cover the finance agreement repayments costs;
the system would not cost Mr and Mrs B a penny;
the system would pay for itself within 12 years.
Shawbrook said that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mr and Mrs B the whole of the quotation document 
on which the adjudicator had relied in coming to her decision, and had only shown it 
to them after they had signed the loan agreement and arranged the installation, so 
that they could sign it;
Mr and Mrs B had never had the opportunity to read it before signing;
being satisfied with what they had been told in the sales meeting, Mr and Mrs B had 
not thought it necessary to ask to see the quotation;
the salesman had told them figures which had turned out to be untrue, specifically 
that without the system they would spend £69,000 on electricity bills over the next 25 
years, and with the system they could expect to save £36,306 in the same period;
the salesman had promised that the system would pay for itself within 12 years.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs B could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs B and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC, Mr and Mrs B, and 
Shawbrook. These include the credit agreement, the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation, and a blank template page which was filled in by the salesman by hand. Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Bs recollection of the sale.
Mr and Mrs B say that the quotation did not form a central part of the sales process when 
they agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have carefully considered the points 
they have made, along with those made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. But I dont think its 
likely or plausible that Mr and Mrs B simply took the salesmans word for it when they were 
told that they could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for with an interest-
bearing loan  without it costing them a penny, without at any point asking to see something 
to that effect in writing (other than the salesmans handwritten figures). So on the balance of 
probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process 
when Mr and Mrs B agreed to enter into the contract.Mr and Mrs B have provided a template which was filled in by the salesman during the 
meeting and left with them. This is a printed document, with spaces in which the salesman 
filled in the figures by hand. These figures match the corresponding figures in the quotation, 
so even if I am wrong about the quotation having been a central part of the sales process, 
Im still satisfied that the relevant figures were brought to their attention during the meeting.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
I have also read Mr and Mrs Bs description of the sales meeting, written in their own words.
FIT payments
Mr and Mrs B have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments together with the savings they would make on 
their electricity bills. Ive considered the documents described above and considered 
whether these support what Mr and Mrs B has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs B could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £120.89. That same figure appears in the template they have 
provided too.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs B could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £212.76 (the same figure appears in 
the template) and, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs B, the 
combined income and savings in year one is shown as £480.05. This is shown in the first 
row of a table titled Putting it all together, and again in the template.
Since 480 divided by 12 is 40, I think this must be where the CMC derived the expected 
benefits figure of £40 per month, as I mentioned above. However, since the loan agreement 
made it clear that Mr and Mrs B would have to make loan repayments of £107.02 each 
month (and Mr and Mrs B accept that the salesman took them through the loan agreement), 
I cannot accept that they were told that the income and savings from the system would be 
enough to cover their loan repayments.
Later in the Putting it all together table, and in the template too, the total savings and 
income over 25 years is given as £36,306.
The quote has another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as 
this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs B entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £105.28. (This is incorrect; the 
loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £107.02, but the difference  £1.74  is 
too small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £105.28, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never 
make enough money to cover the loan payments.
(I have also considered the table for 180 months because it has been highlighted, which 
might indicate that it was discussed before Mr and Mrs B settled on a ten year loan. But that 
table also shows that the benefits of the system would still not be enough to cover the 
smaller loan repayments for the first ten years.)
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient 
to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were told that 
the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone, or in combination 
with the savings on their utility bills.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.74 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr B, 
but even if he didnt read it, I think that the documents he does accept he and his wife read  
the template and the loan agreement  made it clear that the estimated income and savings 
(£40 a month) would not be enough to cover the loan repayments (£107).
So Im of the view that these documents make it clear that the system wouldnt be self-
funding from the start, and that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and monthly loan repayments. The quote presented this information on the same page.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs B were told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a period of 12 years.
The Key Facts page of the quote (page 2) has a graph detailing the estimated performance 
over 20 years. This shows that it would take 12 years for the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs B could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 25 
years. This shows that by the end of year 15 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs B could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement 
(£12,942).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 12 years, and for the loan in about 15 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that could 
amount to a misrepresentation. But, as I shall explain, I dont think it was untrue.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs B. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 1,822 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Bs FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 1,868 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.Although the panels are not under-performing in terms of FIT generation, as measured in 
kWh, the CMC has argued that they have still not performed as estimated as measured in 
pounds sterling. So I have considered why that is.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs B havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs B could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs B entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs B 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman