DRN-3723250
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). 
What happened
Mr P and a third party bought a timeshare membership from a timeshare supplier in October
2008. The total cost of membership was £8,350 which was paid for by taking a loan with
BPF in Mr Ps sole name. As the loan was taken out in Mr Ps name only, he is the sole
eligible complainant and I shall not refer to the third party in this decision.
In December 2018, Mr P made a claim against BPF for problems he says he had with the
timeshare, claiming a full refund of all monies paid. Mr P said the nature of the timeshare
had been misrepresented to him, so he was able to make a claim against BPF under s.75 of
the CCA.
BPF responded to the claim, it said any claim brought under s.75 of the CCA was
done so outside of the periods set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). So, it didnt think it
needed to investigate Mr Ps claim further or refund the payments he had made.
Unhappy with the outcome of BPFs response to his claim, Mr P brought a complaint to our
service that BPF had unfairly turned down the claim.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint but did not think it should be upheld. 
She thought BPF had acted fairly in turning down the claim. Mr P responded to the 
investigators assessment disagreeing with the outcome. In summary, he said:
The LA period runs from the date of the cause of action, not the date he signed the 
contract. The misrepresentation did not happen at the point of contracting, rather it 
was a slow degeneration of the facilities to a point they were not of merchantable 
quality. 
Only after a long time of trying to use the points and experiencing the services, did he 
discover the points did not have the value promised.
The supplier continually asked him to upgrade his membership by buying more 
points. This led to Mr P increasing his debt to access what he already thought he had 
in the first place.
It was much later before he discovered that he was not first in line to book 
accommodation and that the resorts were not exclusive which led to booking 
difficulties.
The maintenance fees were no less than he would have paid as a non-member, so 
he does not consider there is a benefit to the points or membership. Upon 
discovering this, he asked the supplier to buy back the points but was told this could 
not happen.
It was towards the end of 2016 that the supplier agreed to cancel his membership 
and it wasnt until after this point that he discovered the bank could be held jointly 
liable for his concerns. He does not see how he could have been expected to be able 
to make a claim until this stage.
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a
decision.
Having considered the complaint, I concluded it was not one that should be upheld in Mr Ps 
favour. But as the reasons that led me to that conclusion differed slightly from the 
investigators I issued a provisional decision setting out my provisional findings and invited 
both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished me to consider. 
My provisional findings were:
Mr Ps claim for misrepresentation were likely brought too late under the LA. So, I 
thought BPFs decision to decline the claim on that basis was fair.
I did not think the time Mr P had to bring his claim could be extended by any of the 
provisions under the LA.
BPF replied to say it had no further comments to make and would await my final decision. 
Mr P did not reply to my provisional decision. 
As the deadline for both parties to respond to my provisional decision has passed, it is now 
appropriate for me to issue my final decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good
industry practice when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
In my provisional decision, I explained that I thought BPFs decision to rely on the provisions 
of the LA in declining Mr Ps claim was fair. Having reconsidered this case in full and in the 
absence of any new comments or evidence from the parties, I see no reason to depart from 
this conclusion. I have set out my rationale below. 
Mr P says that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to him
and as such, he wishes to make a claim for misrepresentation. Under s.75 of the CCA, BPF 
could be jointly liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by the timeshare supplier, 
subject to a number of conditions being satisfied.BPF argued that any claim brought by Mr P for any alleged misrepresentations was made
too late under the provisions of the LA. I explained in my provisional decision that having 
considered BPFs argument, I agreed with what it had said. I also explained that I was not 
deciding whether the limitation period had expired as that would be a matter for the courts. 
Rather, I was considering whether BPF had acted fairly in turning down the claim. 
I explained that a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under 
s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA). A claim under s.2(1) MA is an action 
founded on tort for the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued (s.2 LA).
In this case, Mr P brought a like claim against BPF under s.75 of the CCA. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. Therefore, the limitation period for the s.75 claim expires six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Mr P said that he didnt and couldnt have realised that the product had been misrepresented 
by the supplier at the point he signed the contract. Instead, he says he only became aware 
that things were not as promised after a slow degeneration of the facilities and after a long 
time of trying to use the points and experience the services. He considers this should be 
when the cause of action accrued.
I set out that I understood why Mr P felt that way. But I went on to explain that it does not 
change or extend the application of the relevant limitation period for his claim. The date on 
which a cause of action accrued is fact specific and will depend on the action being 
brought. In claims of misrepresentation (as is the claim here), time would ordinarily start to 
run from the date the consumer suffered a loss as a result of the alleged misrepresentation. 
When a consumer suffers a loss will vary depending on the circumstances of the claim. In 
this case, Mr P is saying he would not have gone ahead with the timeshare purchase (and 
paid money) but for the misrepresentation on the part of the supplier.
It follows, therefore, that the date on which he suffered a loss (and the cause of action
accrued) was the point at which Mr P entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare in
October 2008. It was at that time that he entered into a contract and the associated loan
agreement based, he says, on the misrepresentations of the timeshare supplier and suffered
a loss. Mr P had six years from that date to bring a corresponding claim. But he did not make
a claim against BPF until December 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in the
LA. So, I think BPF acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
Having reviewed the case again, I maintain my conclusion that BPF acted fairly in relying on 
the relevant provisions of the LA to decline this claim. 
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Overall, having 
reviewed the evidence both parties have sent me, I do not think the time limits I have set out 
above can be extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman