DRN-2908790
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a subsidence claim he made under his home insurance policy has 
been declined by Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco).
What happened
In July 2020 Mr H contacted Tesco, the underwriter of his home insurance policy, to report 
cracking and movement to his conservatory.
Following inspections of the conservatory, and investigations into the cause of the 
movement, Tesco declined the claim. They said the foundations werent deep enough, and 
this had caused the conservatory to subside. They declined the claim based on what they 
say was poor workmanship and faulty design when the conservatory was built.
Mr H was unhappy with this and approached the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said Tesco had 
carried out investigations which showed the conservatory foundations werent deep enough. 
She said that whilst specific building regulations didnt apply to conservatories, the 
foundations hadnt been built in line with best practice at the time and this had caused it to 
subside.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr H first raised his claim, and following an inspection, Tesco said the conservatory 
movement and damage was historic and may have pre-dated the start of the policy. Mr H 
provided mortgage valuation surveys carried out in both 2017 and 2019 which didnt 
specifically mention subsidence damage, so Tesco carried out further investigations into the 
cause of the conservatory movement. The drains were checked but they werent deemed to 
be causing any issues. 
Tesco drilled two bore holes which noted the foundations were 0.35m and 0.4m. They 
concluded the ground was high plasticity clay, there was the onset of desiccation of the clay 
and dead roots in one of the bore holes. They concluded that the conservatory had suffered 
vegetation induced clay shrinkage subsidence. And even in the absence of vegetation, onset 
of desiccation of the clay was noted and the structure would be prone to seasonal 
fluctuations in ground moisture content.
They noted that both Mr H in the last two years, and his neighbour more recently, had 
removed vegetation, so no further mitigation was required. But the structure was already 
beyond repair given the significant damage caused to it.
Tesco accepted the conservatory is suffering from subsidence, which is an insured event 
under Mr Hs policy. Thats not disputed. But they said the foundations were insufficient for 
the type of ground the conservatory was built on, and that had cause it to subside.
So, Tesco declined the claim on the basis of the following exclusion:
loss or damage caused by faulty workmanship, faulty materials or faulty design
Tesco said initially that foundations on clay soil of this type shouldve been at a depth of 
1.5m in high plasticity clay, especially where there are coniferous trees which have a high 
water demand. And later, at least to 1m if thats where the bedrock is to take into account the 
fluctuations in the clay above. 
Tesco accept that specific building regulations didnt apply to conservatories, but said the 
builder at the time shouldve followed best practice and dug deeper foundations, given the 
type of ground the conservatory was on. And that the lack of depth of the foundations on this 
ground resulted in the conservatory then subsiding.
Im in agreement with Tescos position here. I accept conservatories were exempt from 
building regulations specifically at the time it was built. But this doesnt mean that the builder 
didnt need to build the conservatory to a good standard. And whilst building regulations 
didnt need to apply specifically, they do give an indication of what is good practice and the 
kind of things a builder should take into account when designing the foundation depth. The 
2004 version of building regulations, which are relevant as the conservatory was built in 
2005, say that foundations on clay soils should not be less than 0.75m, and the depth will 
commonly need to be increased in order to transfer the loading onto satisfactory ground. 
And the foundations of Mr Hs conservatory were considerably less than this.
So, from this, whilst exempt specifically from regulations, the foundations were clearly far 
shallower than what would be good practice. Im also satisfied with Tescos conclusions that 
its due to those shallow foundations, that the conservatory has then suffered movement 
following clay shrinkage, and is prone to seasonal movement due to the ground moisture 
content. Therefore I dont think its unreasonable for them to rely on the faulty workmanship 
and design exclusion and to decline the claim.
Mr H argues his conservatory has stood the test of time, being built in 2005 (he didnt 
purchase the property until 2017) and him reporting subsidence in 2020 when it had moved 
to the extent he could no longer open the conservatory door. 
Whilst I acknowledge that it wasnt until 2020 that Mr H could no longer open the door, this 
doesnt mean that it wasnt occurring previously. Tesco said damage would worsen over 
time given the foundation depth on shrinkable clay. And they say the conservatory likely 
would have been functional until more recently when Mr H was unable to open the door, 
which then resulted in him reporting the damage. Mr H says the previous surveys didnt 
mention subsidence specifically, but they were valuing the property based on a limited 
inspection, rather than full structural surveys commenting on the construction and/or 
foundations of it. Tesco also noted there were historic signs of displaced brickwork and patch repairs carried 
out previously too, prior to Mr H purchasing the property. They said this would suggest it 
hadnt stood the test of time. Mr H has acknowledged there were historical brickwork repairs 
prior to purchase, but doesnt believe they were subsidence related. In his opinion they 
mightve been related to the original construction, but hes uncertain.  
So with uncertainty of exactly when the subsidence started (not just became more 
problematic when the door could no longer be opened), Im not satisfied its been 
conclusively shown to have stood problem free for a significant period of time.
It isnt disputed by Tesco that subsidence has occurred, but instead theyve applied the 
faulty workmanship and design exclusion based on the depth of the foundations resulting in 
the movement. And Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances.
Mr H has also said building regulations were devolved to the Welsh Government and dont 
have any stipulations for conservatories and that should be whats relevant - based on when 
he made the claim and bought the policy. But they werent devolved at the time the 
conservatory was built. And whats important is what was relevant (or in this case deemed 
good practice) at the time the conservatory was built. And thats what Ive referred to above. 
Either way, the conservatory didnt have to follow strict building regulations at the time either, 
but as Ive said, the foundations were far short of what would be considered best practice at 
the time.
Mr H has since had the conservatory demolished, and said his builders share his views that 
the foundations are sufficient as its subsided in a particular area. Tesco carried out 
investigations into the cause, and they noted where it was subsiding. And Im satisfied for 
the reasons Ive explained above that theyve not acted unreasonably by declining the claim 
based on the faulty workmanship and design exclusion.
If Mr H has any other evidence to counter Tescos conclusions, such as specialist or expert 
reports, he should submit them to Tesco for consideration. But based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think Tesco has acted unfairly by declining the claim for the reasons it has done.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman