DRN-1128848
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) gave him incorrect information about the 
overdraft limit on his current account.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr K called Lloyds to say hed received a letter from it which said his overdraft 
limit of £2,400 was going to be reduced. This change was set to take place on 1 May 2019 
because the overdraft wasnt being used.
Mr K explained on the call that hed recently been a victim of fraud, and as a result, was 
more dependent on the existing overdraft limit. So he asked Lloyds not to decrease it. He 
said hed spoken with a previous call handler who told him he was eligible for an overdraft of 
£2,350. And that another call handler had given him poor service by leaving him on hold and 
subsequently cutting off his call when he asked to make a complaint.
Lloyds considered the complaint and apologised for its service. It also took Mr K through a 
lending application to check whether it could approve the overdraft limit he wanted. But it 
said the maximum overdraft limit Lloyds could offer him was £1,500. Mr K accepted this, and 
a letter confirming the change of limit was sent to his home address on the same date the 
call took place. Mr K also accepted £25 compensation as resolution for the poor service hed 
received.
Following a conversation with a Lloyds branch manager, Mr K complained to Lloyds again in 
May 2019. He raised his concerns about his overdraft being reduced and some additional 
points about the charges for his current account and using his overdraft facility.
Lloyds said itd initially provided incorrect information to Mr K by telling him that no part of his 
overdraft was fee free, when in fact a certain amount was. And that when Mr K raised 
the new complaint, itd voided it because it thought it was a duplicate of the complaint it 
already dealt with in April 2019. It then offered Mr K £50 for the trouble and upset this 
caused and £24 reimbursement for call costs.
But Lloyds didnt agree itd made an error by reducing Mr Ks overdraft. It said it completes 
reviews of its lending, and on this occasion, it decided to reduce Mr Ks overdraft. It 
acknowledged Mr K had been a victim of fraud but said this was a separate matter to the 
reduction of his overdraft.
Mr K says Lloyds response didnt explain why he was previously told he could have a larger 
overdraft. He said hed banked with Lloyds for a long time and at the point he needed it 
most, it let him down by leaving him in financial difficulty. So he brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said that under the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ks account, Lloyds can review his agreed overdraft limit at any time, and as 
a result it can reduce or remove it if notice is given.The investigator concluded the correct notice had been given, so she didnt agree Lloyds did 
anything wrong. She also thought the compensation itd offered for poor service was fair. So 
she didnt recommend that Lloyds do anything further. Mr K disagreed, so the case has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr K has a personal arranged overdraft on his Lloyds current account. The terms and 
conditions of the overdraft say that Lloyds can reduce it at any time, and that it will normally 
give 30 days notice before making any changes.
Mr K doesnt dispute the notice period he was given. And within a call he had with Lloyds in 
April 2019, he said hed received a letter earlier in the month to let him know his overdraft 
was being reduced. So I think its likely he was given such notice.
It follows that in line with its terms and conditions, I agree Lloyds was entitled to reduce Mr 
Ks overdraft. And Im persuaded it followed its process when doing this. So I dont think 
Lloyds has done anything wrong.
Mr K says he was a victim of fraud, and that by Lloyds reducing the overdraft its left him in 
financial difficulty. But an overdraft isnt guaranteed to always be available on an account  
no matter what the circumstances are. And it can be reduced at any time as Ive already 
explained.
While I understand why Mr Ks specific circumstances meant he wouldve liked to have kept 
his overdraft limit at £2,400, Lloyds isnt required to meet this request under the terms and 
conditions of this facility.
From the information Ive seen, its fairly assessed his circumstances against its lending 
criteria and offered him an overdraft limit its concluded is acceptable as a result of this. I 
think this is fair, so I wont be directing Lloyds to do anything differently.
Its worth noting that at the time Mr Ks overdraft was reduced, its my understanding his 
usage was well within the new limit of £1,500. So the decrease didnt seem to cause him any 
immediate financial difficulty in relation to his Lloyds current account.
Mr K told this service that Lloyds has offered to complete a financial review with him, to see 
if theres any other ways it can assist him during this time. This seems like a reasonable 
starting point to offer support to Mr K during the financial difficulty he says hes experiencing.
Mr K has asked that Lloyds find the call recording where the call hander told him he could 
have an overdraft limit of £2,350. Lloyds hasnt provided this particular call to this service, 
but I dont think it makes a difference to my findings anyway.
I say this because, during the later call he had with Lloyds in April 2019, the call handler 
clearly explained hed need to go through a new application before any changes to the 
overdraft could be agreed. They also apologised for any misinformation about this, and 
about the poor service Mr K reported regarding his call being cut off.At the end of that call Mr K accepted the new overdraft limit of £1,500 and was satisfied that 
his complaint had been resolved after he was offered £25 compensation and an apology. So 
Im satisfied this issue was addressed by Lloyds and a clear explanation was given at that 
point about the correct application process.
It follows that even if the call Mr K wants, proves that he was told he could have an overdraft 
of £2,350, I still wouldnt direct Lloyds to offer it to him for the reasons Ive already explained. 
Mr K is entitled to request this call from Lloyds for his own reference if he wishes to do so  
but it wouldnt impact my decision.
Lloyds has offered Mr K just under £100 in compensation in relation to his complaint points 
that he raised around the time his overdraft was reduced - £25 in April 2019 which Mr K 
accepted, and £74 in June 2019 which is in dispute under this complaint.
Mr K inevitably had to spend time calling Lloyds regarding its failure to log his complaint, and 
was given wrong information about the fee free part of his overdraft. So I think its right 
Lloyds refunded him the call charges. And I think £50 is a fair amount of compensation to 
recognise the likely inconvenience this caused him. So I wont be asking Lloyds to increase 
the compensation already offered in this case any further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2019.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman