DRN-3259112
The complaint
Mr B with the help of a professional representative complains that Mercer Limited provided 
unsuitable advice when he purchased two annuities in 2011.
What happened
From the limited information available it appears that in 2011 Mr B took out two annuities on 
the Open Market. One annuity was purchased from a pot built up with another provider of 
around £50,000 and the other much smaller, of just over £1,000.
Medical information was supplied, and the quotation said the figure had been provided 
based on there being an enhancement due to health conditions.
For the larger annuity Mr B had selected to have tax-free cash and an annuity guaranteed 
for ten years with no escalation. It also had protected rights attached to it and so that part 
benefitted from a 50% spouses pension and a five year guarantee.
The smaller annuity was also paid after tax-free cash was taken, it also had a ten year 
guarantee with no spouses pension nor escalation.
More recently Mr B raised a complaint through his representative that the advice hed 
received in 2011 was unsuitable. Mercer answered the complaint and said that it was now 
responsible for the firm that provided Mr B with advice. However, it said as the advice took 
place before it acquired the firm, it had no documentation. Mr B hasnt been able to provide 
us with any documentation, nor any recollections from the time despite our requests.
Mr Bs representatives say the business was wrong because it sold Mr B annuities without 
escalation, meaning Mr Bs buying power will be heavily reduced in the future. He said the 
burden is on the business to show it gave suitable advice and there is no evidence to show it 
properly informed Mr B of his options. And that he had enough information to make an 
informed choice about the alternatives available.
Mercer said the complaint had been made out of time as Mr B wouldve known in 2011 what 
he was receiving from the annuities and that he was receiving level annuity payments that 
wouldnt keep pace with inflation.
Our investigator looked into matters, she said that Mr B wouldve known in 2011 that his 
annuity wasnt escalating and so this part was out of time. But this wouldnt have made him 
aware that there was an issue with the suitability of advice and so she could consider that. In 
regards to the merits of the complaint the investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that due to the lack of information she didnt know whether Mr B was informed of 
all his options but she could see an enhanced annuity had been setup for Mr B due to his 
health conditions. And she felt this was most likely suitable advice in the circumstances. She 
also said the figure Mr B had to invest of which was just short of £50,000 wouldnt have been 
enough to take out a drawdown policy. She also said that if Mr B had a low risk appetite as 
his representative had told us, keeping his money invested post retirement in a drawdown 
policy led to the risk of funds being eroded over time by charges. Especially as presumably 
his investments themselves wouldve been low risk and hence opportunity for growth likely 
small.
Mr Bs representative in response said that whether or not Mr B knew or not that his annuity 
wasnt escalating is irrelevant  as it wasnt what gave him cause for complaint.
He said the key issue is the burden of responsibility was on the business to demonstrate 
suitability and retain the documents to do so. There was no evidence to show that Mr B was 
properly informed of all the information to decide which of the alternatives were best for him. 
The representative said a low cost low-risk drawdown policy would have been better for Mr B 
and his family. 
He also stated that a pot of just less than £50,000 wouldnt have been too small for 
drawdown  as dips in market performance affect different sized pots in the same 
proportions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our time-limits
Mercer said the complaint had been made out of time as Mr B wouldve known in 2011 that 
his annuity didnt escalate. So it said the event was more than six years before the complaint 
was made, and awareness came about more than three years before as well. Our 
investigator seemed to agree in part saying part of the complaint was out of time but we 
could consider the suitability aspect of the complaint.
Id agree that if Mr Bs complaint was simply about the fact hed not realised hed been sold a 
level annuity, it couldve been out of time on that basis. But Mr Bs complaint is the advice 
was unsuitable  and I dont think it would be fair to say he shouldve known this at the time. 
He was entitled to rely on what he was being told by the adviser was suitable for his 
circumstances at the time.
The investigator concluded that we could consider the suitability of the advice and went on to 
do so  I agree that this isnt out of time. So ultimately she reached the conclusion that I am 
reaching  but for the record I dont agree that there is another part of this complaint that is 
out of time.
What is it I have to decide?
I have to decide whether the advice to take out a level annuity was suitable for Mr B.
Relevant rules
There were various regulations set by the regulator that were in force at the time of the 
advice. They are in COBS, which replaced the COB rulebook.
 COBS 2.1.1  a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client.
 COBS 4.5.6  if information compares relevant business, relevant investments, or persons 
who carry on relevant business, a firm must ensure that the comparison is meaningful and 
presented in a fair and balanced way.In addition, there is:
 COBS 9.2.1  a firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation is suitable for its client; and when making the recommendation the firm 
must obtain the necessary information regarding the clients:
oknowledge and experience in the relevant investment field
ofinancial situation, and 
oinvestment objectives 
so as to enable it to make the recommendation which is suitable for the client.
 COBS 9.2.2  a firm needs to get enough information from the customer to be able to 
make sure the recommendation meets their objectives, theyre able to bear any related 
investment risk and they understand the risks involved in the transaction
 COBS 9.2.6  if a firm doesnt obtain enough information to assess suitability, it mustnt 
make a recommendation.
The over-riding regulatory principle of the rules is that Mercer had a duty to treat Mr B fairly.
My findings
As the investigator pointed out there is very limited information to go on. Mercer doesnt 
have any documentation regarding the advice it gave  we only have the forms provided by 
the annuity provider. And Mr B hasnt given us any of his recollections of the time.
Looking at the paperwork from the time, Mr B ticked to say he hadnt been given advice but 
the firm Mercer is now responsible for were paid commission and its named on the annuity 
paperwork as his financial advisor. So I think that it did give Mr B advice.
The evidence we do have shows that Mr B received an annuity enhanced due to his medical 
conditions at the time. This suggests on the balance of probabilities that the adviser did get 
enough information from Mr B to make sure the recommendation met his objectives. I say 
this because it appears the adviser identified through discussions with Mr B what his 
circumstances were at the time. And in finding out he had medical conditions that could 
provide an enhanced income  advised Mr B to purchase an annuity designed for those with 
a shortened life expectancy. Mr B wouldnt have received an enhancement for his health if 
for example hed taken out an alternative product such as income drawdown.
Mr Bs representative has told us Mr B had little to no investment experience or knowledge 
and that he had a cautious attitude to risk. An annuity provides a secure income for life and 
isnt subject to investment risk. In my view, given the very limited information weve been 
provided about Mr B - an enhanced annuity seems the only option that closely matched Mr 
Bs conservative attitude to risk and state of health. His income wasnt exposed to 
investment risk and it provided planning security in retirement and was guaranteed for life.
It is true that a level annuity will lose its buying power due to inflation. But I dont think that 
means its risky  in the sense that it shouldnt have been recommended. There was (and 
remains) no risk to Mr Bs pension income as he will continue to receive the same payments 
for the remainder of his life. And the choice to take out an escalating annuity is not free  in 
that it comes with an equal downside. To account for the fact the annuity will get larger as 
time goes on, the starting point of the annuity is lower  and it takes a number of years for the incremental increases to catch up to the starting point of the level annuity. So there is a 
choice to be made, both options have plus and minuses. If Mr B was to die early, he 
wouldve received less from the escalating annuity than he wouldve done from the level 
annuity. And the opposite is true if Mr B was to live longer than expected. I suspect this 
wouldve been discussed with Mr B as it is a standard option. He and the adviser wouldve 
received information about this from the annuity provider and been invited to make a choice. 
But in any event, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the selection one way or the other of this 
option for Mr B wouldve constituted unsuitable advice.
The representative says that Mr B shouldve been recommended a low-cost low risk 
drawdown product. But I dont think this product existed then. From my knowledge and 
experience, in 2011 it was largely considered that drawdown was only suitable for those with 
a pot larger than £100,000. Many providers had a stipulation of minimum fund. This is in part 
because drawdown products tended to have high charges. And they were one of the more 
complex products available, so often required a financial adviser attached to the plan, which 
increased the costs. Information from the market at the time isnt easy to get but to illustrate 
this point Ive found an article from ThisisMoney.co.uk from September 2010 which said 
about drawdown if markets rise, the pension pot grows and you can draw a larger annual 
income. Because of the risks of stock market falls, savers with a pension pot of less than 
£100,000-150,000 are, generally, urged to steer clear - unless they have significant savings 
elsewhere.
Even if Mr B was able to find a provider that would accept his fund into drawdown, given what 
weve been told about his experience and attitude to risk, I dont think drawdown wouldve 
been suitable for him. The pension funds remain invested and are exposed to investment 
fluctuations so whilst theres a chance they will grow theres also a chance they will reduce. 
The pot also reduces if ongoing charges arent outweighed by investment returns, which tend 
to be lower the more cautious an investor is. And theres the risk that withdrawals and low 
returns might lead to a consumer running out of money before they die or having to heavily 
reduce their income later in retirement.  Whereas an annuity doesnt reduce and is payable for 
life. If Mr B took out drawdown and returns werent high there is the chance his fund is 
extinguished and in that case nothing wouldve been left to pass to his family on his death. So 
I dont agree with Mr Bs representative that drawdown would necessarily be far better for his 
family if he died. And Mr B ought to have been aware of the choice to provide a spouses 
pension with his annuity, as it was included on his protected rights. But it appears he didnt 
wish to add this to the rest of his annuity.
Conclusions
Where there is a lack of information, I have to make a decision on the evidence we do have 
and what I think on the balance of probabilities occurred. Whilst Mercer doesnt have the 
information from the time to evidence it met the regulatory requirements, this doesnt mean 
that it didnt. And this isnt a basis on its own to uphold a complaint. But having looked at the 
information we do have, the limited information we have about Mr B and considered what 
was available in the market at the time, I dont think a level enhanced annuity was unsuitable 
for his circumstances. And so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman