DRN-3132384
The complaint
Mr R complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their decision to close his local branch.
What happened
Mr R held an account with Barclays and regularly attended his local branch to service this. In 
October 2020, Barclays wrote to Mr R explaining his local branch would be closing in 
January 2021. Within this letter, they explained the alternative ways in which Mr R could 
continue to service his account, ranging from online banking to using another branch. But Mr 
R was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint. 
Mr R didnt think it was fair for Barclays to close the branch. He thought it was an attempt to 
force customers into using phone or online banking, which he didnt feel were secure. He 
explained the alternative branches were much further away for him to attend and he was 
concerned about the impact this would have on local post offices to cater for the increased 
demand. So, he wanted the branch to be re-opened.
Barclays didnt agree. They signposted Mr R to a webpage explaining why the branch had 
been closed, as well as providing him with a leaflet explaining the same. The reasons 
included decreased footfall and more customers now using alternative methods to service 
their accounts. So, while they understood Mr Rs frustration, they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. Mr R remained unhappy with this response so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained Barclays 
decision to close the branch was a commercial decision. And they explained our service is 
unable to comment on commercial decisions banks make as were unable to comment on or 
ask banks to change business processes. They explained this would instead fall under the 
remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But they did consider whether Barclays had acted fairly when notifying Mr R about the 
branch closure. And they thought Barclays had as Mr R received a letter and leaflet 
explaining why the branch was closing and what alternative options he had moving forwards. 
So, they didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mr R didnt agree. He maintained his view that closing the branch was effectively forcing 
customers into using online and telephone banking which he thought were unsecure. He 
thought decisions such as Barclays were leading the financial industry into a new crisis and 
he wanted banks such as this to recognise the impact this would have. Mr R was also 
unhappy that the FCA had failed to acknowledge his concerns, instead directing him back to 
our service. As Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr R. I dont doubt it wouldve 
been inconvenient for Barclays to close his local branch which Im aware he used regularly. I 
appreciate Mr R used the branch as the main way of servicing his account so I recognise the 
upset Mr R wouldve been caused when he was forced to change this through no fault of his 
own. I appreciate the alternative branches were further away and I also recognise Mr Rs 
concerns about using online or telephone banking.
But our service is unable to consider or comment upon Barclays decision to close Mr Rs 
branch. This is because it is a commercial decision by Barclays and one they are entitled to 
make under their own business processes. Any issues with Barclays business processes 
would need to be directed to the FCA who regulate the industry as they are the only 
organisation that can recommend changes to them. I understand Mr R has referred this 
issue to the FCA and is unhappy with their response. This would be something Mr R would 
need to pursue with the FCA directly.
What I am able to consider is whether Barclays fairly notified Mr R of the intended closure 
and ensured he was aware of all the alternative options available to him. And from what Ive 
seen, I think they did.
Ive seen the letter sent to Mr R almost three months before the branch was due to close. 
This letter referred Mr R to Barclays website, where they provided an in-depth explanation 
of why the branch would be closed. So, I think they made it reasonably clear to Mr R their 
reasons and this is what Id expect them to do.
And the letter also provided Mr R with all of the alternative options available to him when 
continuing to service his account. These included details of alternative branches, as well as 
ways to service his account online and through telephone banking. I recognise the branches 
were further away and I understand Mr Rs position on telephone and online banking. But I 
think Barclays gave Mr R this information with enough time for him to consider his options 
before the branch closed. So, I think theyve acted fairly and because of this, I dont think 
they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for. Ive listened to the conversations Mr 
R held with our investigator and I recognise he has several concerns about the security of 
online and telephone banking and the repercussions this may have on customers in the 
future. But as Ive explained above, its not my role to consider prospective losses caused by 
business processes implemented by banks such as Barclays. This would need to be referred 
to the FCA. I also recognise Mr Rs concerns about customers who may not have access to 
a computer and rely on local branch services. But my role is to consider the service Barclays 
provided to Mr R directly and the impact it had solely on him as a customer. And having 
done so, Im unable to say Barclays have done anything wrong.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman