DRN-3176028
The complaint
 Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted 
irresponsibly by increasing his overdraft limit when he was in financial difficulty. 
 
What happened
 Mr K has complained about unaffordable lending relating to overdraft increases. He says he 
couldnt afford to repay his overdraft.  Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr K was 
dis-satisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Halifax ought 
to have realised that Mr K was experiencing financial difficulty by 23 October 2017 and 
shouldnt have allowed any further overdraft increases from this point onwards. 
Halifax disagrees it says just because a consumer uses an overdraft facility does not mean 
they are in financial difficulty and that if they choose not to discuss their finances when 
making an application for a limit increase it assumes the consumer had considered how 
much they could afford to pay.
So the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges and approving increases in overdraft limits. So I dont consider it 
necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Mr Ks overdraft in October 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr K was in 
no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr K was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. Halifaxs own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
Halifax ought to have realised that Mr Ks use of his overdraft was unsustainable. 
Mr Ks bank statements show prior to the October 2017 increase he had set up a new direct 
debit to another third party lender and that he was already clearly struggling to manage his 
existing overdraft limit with Halifax when it once again agreed to increase his limit a further 
£200 to £1,000. A cursory look at his statements show he wasnt able to bring down the 
overdraft from the limit he already had. 
Its true that one of these factors in themselves doesnt necessarily mean Mr K was 
experiencing financial difficulty or that he shouldnt have been allowed further borrowing. But 
taken all together I think further checks wouldve been appropriate before agreeing to 
increase his limit once again  especially as this account wasnt Mr Ks main account and his 
salary wasnt being mandated to it. So I dont think merely relying on Mr Ks assessment on 
what he can afford goes far enough.
So I think that Mr Ks overdraft usage should have prompted Halifax to have realised that Mr 
K wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have increased his limit or continued 
offering it on the same terms. As Halifax didnt react to Mr Ks overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr K ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Halifax didnt 
treat Mr K fairly and he lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.  
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Re-working Mr Ks current overdraft balance so that any additional interest, fees
and charges applied as a result of the overdraft limit increases from 23 October 2017
onwards are removed. This means that from 23 October 2017 onwards interest can 
only be charged on the first £800 of any overdrawn balance. 
AND
Mr K took out a consolidation loan to clear the overdraft, however, if
an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have been
made Halifax should contact Mr K to arrange a suitable repayment plan for
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr K
credit file, it should backdate this to 23 October 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and
returned to Mr K along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax should remove
any adverse information from Mr Ks credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman