DRN-3241104
The complaint
Miss O has complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund transactions she says she didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
This complaint is about two online banking transfers of £130 each, made in December 2020 
and January 2021 respectively. Miss O thought they were card payments, and she said she 
didnt authorise them.
TSB thought Miss O had authorised the payments in dispute, so they held her liable for 
them. They found the payments had been made from Miss Os usual phone, authenticated 
by her fingerprint, from the same IP address she used both before and afterwards. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss O 
didnt agree. She said her phone was a different model to the one TSB had recorded, and 
she said she would not have made such large payments.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Miss O had also asked for TSB to remove a marker theyd registered 
at CIFAS, the national fraud database. But TSB objected to us considering this point. Thats 
because they sent Miss O their final response about the CIFAS marker on 17 August 2020, 
and Miss O had six months from then to come to our service  so until 17 February 2021. 
But she didnt come to us until 29 March 2021, which was too late. Miss O said she didnt get 
the final response, but I can see it was sent to her correctly. So this point falls outside of our 
jurisdiction. But in any case, I can see that the marker has been removed as Miss O asked.
In regard to the payments in dispute: broadly speaking, TSB can hold Miss O liable for the 
payments if the evidence shows that she authorised them. Having carefully considered 
everything that both sides have said and provided, I think its reasonable that TSB held her 
liable. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from TSBs technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Miss Os 
online banking. They were not made using her card, as shes suggested. And the electronic 
records show that both payments were authenticated using Miss Os fingerprint  the same 
method shed used to authenticate her genuine spending. So it would not have been 
realistically possible for anyone to have authenticated the disputed payments without 
Miss Os knowledge and permission.
From what Miss Os said, she didnt keep her online banking details written down anywhere, 
she hadnt shared them with anyone, there was no one she lived with who couldve 
realistically done this, and she hadnt responded to any suspicious communications. So its 
difficult to see how anyone could have learned her online banking details without her 
permission. And so again, it seems like the only person who could have likely been using 
Miss Os online banking was Miss O herself or someone shed given her permission to.
Regardless of the exact model, the electronic records are clear that these two disputed 
payments were made using the very same phone that Miss O had been using since at least 
as far back as 2019. And from what shes said, it seems she hadnt lost her phone. Indeed, 
she was still using that phone for genuine activity afterwards. The payments were also made 
from the same internet protocol address that Miss O used for her genuine activity. So taking 
all that together, it doesnt seem likely that anyone other than Miss O couldve done this.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss O 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Os online banking was used to make these payments, 
from her normal device, at her normal IP address, authenticated by her fingerprint. And there 
doesnt seem to have been a likely or plausible way that someone could have learned 
Miss Os security details or used her fingerprint, or otherwise have made the payments 
without her knowledge and permission. It may be that Miss O has genuinely forgotten 
making these payments or has forgotten what they were for. But given the evidence I have 
and the balance of probabilities, Im reasonably satisfied that she authorised them at the 
time. And so I think it was reasonable that TSB held her liable for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman