DRN-3139678
The complaint
Mr T complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner. He also 
complains that the lender failed to provide him with sufficient information about the loan 
before he completed the agreement, and that he wasnt given information about his rights to 
withdraw from the agreement within 14 days.
What happened
Mr T has been assisted in making his complaint by a family friend. But, for ease, in this 
decision I will treat all communication as having been with, and from, Mr T himself.
Mr T was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go. He borrowed £760 in June 2020 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Mr T has faced problems making his repayments 
and a balance remains outstanding on the loan.
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the checks 
Loans 2 Go had done before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. And she didnt think the 
results of those checks should have led to Loans 2 Go declining Mr Ts application. She 
thought that Mr T had been provided with all the necessary information about the loan before 
he signed the loan agreement. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr T didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ts complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave this loan to Mr T required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr T. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr T undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr T.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr T before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess 
how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past. 
As a result of those checks Loans 2 Go decreased the amount of disposable income that 
Mr T had declared as part of his loan application.
Mr T was entering into a relatively large commitment with Loans 2 Go. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it was right that Loans 2 Go 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ts financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of Loans 2 Gos checks to see whether it made a fair lending 
decision.
As Ive explained earlier, Loans 2 Go decreased the disposable income that Mr T declared 
once it had considered his other credit commitments. But even after making those 
adjustments, and applying a buffer to account for any unexpected expenditure, it appeared 
that Mr T would be able to afford his repayments from his normal income. So that might have 
given Loans 2 Go confidence that it was reasonable to lend to Mr T.
Loans 2 Go also checked Mr Ts credit file. That check showed that Mr T had managed his 
credit well in the past. It didnt show any evidence of missed repayments, or more serious 
issues such as defaults, county court judgements, or bankruptcy. So that too might have 
given Loans 2 Go confidence in its lending decision.The credit check did show that Mr T had some other debt that he needed to repay  
something that Loans 2 Go took into account when calculating his disposable income. He 
had two credit cards, one of which was approaching the agreed credit limit. And he had a 
personal loan that hed taken around six months earlier. But, on balance, I dont think any 
other those other accounts suggested that Mr T was facing any serious problems managing 
his money.
On balance I think that it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to give this loan to Mr T. 
I appreciate that he says that his financial situation was far worse than Ive described above. 
But that wasnt something he told Loans 2 Go about when he applied for the loan, nor 
something that I think was apparent from the results of the proportionate checks. I dont think 
Loans 2 Go had any reason to dig deeper into Mr Ts finances before it agreed the loan.
I have looked at the information that was given to Mr T before the loan was completed. He 
was sent and signed, electronically, a copy of a standard credit agreement. That document 
showed Mr T the key information about the loan including the amount being advanced, the 
repayment period, the amount of each monthly repayment, and the total amount that he 
would need to repay over the length of the loan. And it also told him that he had the right to 
withdraw from the agreement within the next 14 days. 
So I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in the 
information it provided to Mr T about the terms of the loan either.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman