DRN-3782712
The complaint
Mr D complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund him for contactless 
payments.
What happened
Mr D went away for his birthday and, on an evening out, noticed transactions he didnt 
recognise. Mr D put a block on his card and called Halifax.
Mr D spent some time trying to get through, and Halifax didnt progress his disputed 
transaction claim the way it should have. Halifax carried out an investigation into the 
payments Mr D raised as disputed but wouldnt refund them.
Halifax said Mr D had authorised a payment in the middle of the disputed transactions, and 
couldnt see how this could have been done. Halifax paid Mr D £60 for the poor service and 
£36 for call costs. Unhappy with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought it was more likely Mr D had authorised the payments. The investigator 
also thought the payments were funded by a transfer in, and this looked odd.
The investigator was satisfied Mr Ds genuine card had been used, but often for small 
amounts. The investigator thought a fraudster would be more likely to empty the account 
quickly. And the investigator couldnt see how Mr D had paid for his evening out.
Mr D said he thought it was more likely his card had been skimmed, and copied. Mr D said 
he paid for his weekend with a combination of cash and card payments. Mr D asked for an 
ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule, its fair for Halifax to hold Mr D liable for any payments where the evidence 
suggests he made or authorised them.
And where this evidence is incomplete, or contradictory, I can decide things on a balance of 
probabilities, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Ive looked at the technical evidence Halifax has supplied, and Im satisfied Mr Ds genuine 
card was used for the payments hes disputed. All the payments Mr Ds disputing are 
contactless, so I cant say for certain Mr D authorised them.
Ill need to be satisfied its more likely than not Mr D made these transactions, to decide its 
fair for Halifax to hold Mr D liable for the payments.
Mr D withdrew £10 from a cash machine at 13.50, this payment isnt disputed. The first 
disputed contactless payment is 14 minutes later, at 14.04. There are further disputed 
payments made at 14.37, 16.28, 18.05, 18.41 and 18.44.
This means Mr D must have had his card taken soon after he used the cash machine. And 
then, either the card was kept by a third party, or returned to Mr D. 
Mr D authorised a payment at 20.13, this payment was made using the card and the 
personal identification number (PIN), this payment isnt disputed. Whoever had the card was 
able to return it to Mr D so he could make this payment.
The last two disputed payments are at 20.17. So someone must have been able to take 
Mr Ds card again, very soon after he used it, to make the last two payments.
And this would indicate whoever had the card didnt know when Mr D might use it, which 
means, if a random third party had used Mr Ds card, theyd need to keep returning it to him 
after each use.
I dont think its very likely the card was taken and replaced each time, it would mean 
someone was able to do it six times without Mr D noticing. I think its more likely Mr D either 
made the payments himself or allowed someone else to make them, with his agreement.
Most of the transactions made on Mr Ds card, on the day in question, have been disputed. 
The investigator asked Mr D how he paid for things on his weekend away and was told this 
was by cash and card.
Mr D withdrew £10 from a cash machine, which would indicate he didnt have any cash on 
him. And £10 is not a lot of cash for a day and evening out. Theres little genuine spend on 
Mr Ds card through the day and evening, I cant see how Mr D was paying for food, drink 
and leisure during the day and evening.
Mr D says his card was probably skimmed and copied, and says hes researched this as a 
possibility. I dont think this is likely. The magnetic strip on a card can be copied, but its 
generally not thought possible the chip in a card can be copied.
Im satisfied Mr Ds genuine card, and genuine chip, was read for all the contactless 
payments hes disputed. I dont think its likely Mr Ds card was somehow copied.
And if someone had copied Mr Ds card, Id expect them to try and spend as much as 
possible and as quickly as possible, before Mr D notices. But the transactions Mr Ds 
disputed are for relatively small amounts and spread throughout the day.
I think all the evidence suggests Mr D made the payments himself, or allowed someone else 
to make them, with his authority. In either set of circumstances, I think its fair for Halifax to 
hold Mr D liable for the payments.
In the specific circumstances of Mr Ds complaint, I dont think it would be fair for Halifax to 
refund any of the payments Mr Ds disputed.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman