DRN-2857093
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a claim 
made on her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here.  
In short, Mrs C made a claim on her policy because her pet (T) became ill and vet bills 
were incurred as a result. When reviewing the claim, RSA relied on Ts medical history which 
showed that the condition had been noticed within 14 days of the cover start date. Therefore, 
RSA declined to cover the claim in light of a relevant exclusion within the policy. 
Mrs C believes that the veterinary notes have been misinterpreted. In her view, the change 
in Ts health was first noticed outside of the exclusion period. So, she thinks RSA should 
cover the costs shes incurred. 
Where these material facts are not in dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: 
 When the policy was agreed, RSA made it reasonably clear to Mrs C that it would not 
cover treatment for any changes that you or your vet notice in your pets health or 
behaviour within the first 14 days of the cover start date.
 Its common ground that the costs being claimed for are related to this change in Ts 
health. Because the policy sets out that RSA wont pay for any illness or injury that 
develops from such changes, I find this exclusion relevant for the purposes of RSA 
deciding this claim.  
 Theres documentary evidence that Mrs C disclosed to her vet when she became 
aware of Ts condition. The medical history demonstrates that T had a consultation, 
and its noted that Mrs C first noticed the decline in Ts health within 14 days of the 
cover start date. 
 I consider that the supporting information provided by the veterinary practitioner to 
RSA further clarifies this date of awareness as being before the end of the exclusion 
period.  
 I appreciate Mrs C may interpret the medical notes differently. But as I see it, the 
dates recorded make it reasonably clear when the change in Ts health was first 
noticed. And Ive not been provided with a compelling argument to make me doubt 
the accuracy of this medical history, nor the credibility of the practitioner(s) who 
recorded it. 
 So, on account of the evidence, Im satisfied that RSA can reasonably rely on this 
policy exclusion to decline the claim. Because I dont think RSA has handled this 
claim unfairly, it follows that I do not require it to do anything differently for this 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman