DRN-4036177
The complaint
Mr I complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim under his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr I had a motor insurance policy with UKI covering his car. 
In June 2022, Mr Is car was stolen, and he made a claim.
UKI declined his claim because he didnt have an active subscription for a tracking device 
fitted to the car. UKI said Mr I needed to have this for it to be able to provide cover for theft of 
the car. 
Mr I complained. He says he wasnt aware he needed to have a tracking device fitted and a 
subscription active. He said he wasnt told by UKI about this.
His car included a device that was fitted by the manufacturer, but Mr I hadnt subscribed to 
that service. 
UKI said it had provided Mr I with the information that he needed to have a tracking device. 
This included as part of the application process online for his policy, on his policy schedule, 
on the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and in the policy booklet. 
Mr I remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He wants UKI to settle his 
claim. He also says hes suffered a great deal of distress from UKIs decision to reject his 
claim.
Our investigator looked into Mr Is complaint and didnt uphold it. She said he thought UKI 
had reasonably done enough to bring the tracking device subscription requirement to Mr Is 
attention. She said UKI had acted fairly.
Mr I didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my decision will distress Mr I, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr I bought the policy in September 2021 via a price comparison website. He also carried 
out a Mid-Term Alteration (MTA) in November to change the cars registration number.
Ive not been supplied with a copy of the online process for either his original application for 
cover, or the MTA he then carried out. But I dont think that matters because Ive looked at 
Mr Is policy documents and I can see that the necessity for a tracking device and 
subscription was included in them. 
I can see Mr I mentions that UKI say if it requires a tracking device to be fitted. He says this 
would make him think it was an optional item.
But I dont agree. A policy document is meant to be read in full and in conjunction with other 
parts of the policy, such as the policy schedule and endorsements.
I can see the requirement for a tracking device is mentioned on the policy schedule Mr I was 
sent when he originally took out the policy. Page four says:
Endorsements
A tracking device must be fitted to this car and have a current network subscription 
for Theft cover to apply.
Its also in the IPID on the first page:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
We will not pay a claim if your car is stolen and any tracking device, which we 
insist is fitted, has not been set or is not in full working order
Its also referenced in the policy wording on page 14:
Using tracking devices
We won't cover any loss or damage if we required a tracking device to be installed on 
your car and:
The device is not connected to a network because a subscription or service is 
not active.
If we need you to use a tracking device, you can see this under 'Endorsements' in 
your car insurance details. [the policy schedule mentioned above]
I can see that these documents were issued to Mr I.
Mr I has also said that his car had a tracking device fitted by the cars manufacturer. Its my 
understanding that this device needed a subscription to the manufacturers service to 
operate fully.
The endorsement Ive talked about above says that:
A tracking device must be fitted to this car and have a current network subscription 
for Theft cover to apply.
It seems to me that merely having a device fitted isnt enough. UKI say it must have a 
current network subscription, and I can see from Mr Is description of events that he didnt 
have this. 
Ive said above that I think UKI did reasonably show the requirement to have an active 
tracking device subscription to Mr I in his policy documents. It seems to me that Mr I either 
didnt read or didnt understand this requirement. But I cant say thats the fault of UKI.This is unfortunate for Mr I as it means I wont ask UKI to pay his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman