DRN-3445601
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as V has complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly
turned down its commercial property insurance claim.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will also include anything done by the underwriting
syndicate.
What happened
V took out a policy with Lloyds in October 2019. As part of the sales process, Lloyds asked 
V if any part of the property was unoccupied. V said that the premises were currently 
undergoing a refurbishment, which was expected to take until February. As a result, Lloyds
added an unoccupied property warranty to the policy which said cover was only available for
fire, lightening, explosion, earthquake and aircraft (FLEEA) and, amongst other things, V
needed to make Lloyds aware of any change in occupation of the premises.
V said the pub reopened in February 2020 and a couple of days later it submitted a claim
following a minor theft. Lloyds turned down the claim, as they said there was only cover for
FLEEA. V ultimately accepted Lloyds decision.
V said that it ceased trading around a month later due to concerns about Covid-19, although 
its staff continued to attend the premises until a group set up a camp on its carpark and 
threatened staff. V claimed on its policy for damage, which it said was caused by members 
of the group breaking into the premises and causing extensive damage to stock and 
contents.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster who took a statement from V. In the statement V said it had
reopened in February for wet sales, as the kitchen was still undergoing refurbishment. V said 
the plan was to open the business with limited stock to build local trade before expanding.
Lloyds ultimately declined Vs claim. They said V should have informed them that it had
started trading in February for wet sales only. And, if it had let them know, Lloyds would
have continued to limit the cover to FLEEA only. Therefore, Lloyds said there wasnt any
cover for the malicious damage claim as that wasnt an insured event at the time the
damage occurred.
Lloyds also said V abandoned the premises to the group without arranging security, even
though it knew there was a risk. Lloyds added that V should also have let them know when it
stopped trading. Lloyds said that V had an ongoing duty of disclosure and as V failed to 
advise them of something that increased the risk, they were entitled to turn down its claim.
V was unhappy with Lloyds response. It said it had made it clear when buying the policy that
the premises would reopen in February and it provided till receipts, photos and wage slips to
prove that it was trading. It said it only closed the premises due to the group in the carpark,
although it would have been required to close on the same day due to Government
Regulations. It pointed out that it was covered for stock, which it didnt think would be
relevant if it wasnt reopening, and said Lloyds knew it was trading following the first claim. V 
said while it had tried to put security in place, it hadnt been able to do so.
Lloyds maintained their decision to decline Vs claim. They said the stock cover was part of
a package, so it wasnt relevant that V was covered for stock when they werent trading.
They said the wage slips showed staff employed at Vs other premises and that receipts
showed takings from the restaurant, when V had said the restaurant wasnt being used.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, V brought its complaint to our service. It said it had brought
in staff from other premises and the takings showed as being from the restaurant because
that was the area of the tills being used. It said police advice to close the premises was
evidence of it being occupied and it was aware that the underwriter was extending 
unoccupied cover for other companies due to Covid-19.
Our investigator looked into Vs complaint and recommended it be upheld, as he thought that
if V had got in touch with Lloyds to specifically let them know it was trading, Lloyds would
have removed the warranty which limited the cover. To put things right he recommended
that Lloyds reconsider Vs claim.
V accepted our investigators recommendation, but Lloyds didnt. They accepted that they
would have provided full cover if V had been fully trading but said, on the basis of the
information V had provided, they didnt think V was fully trading and therefore would have
continued to limit cover. As they didnt agree, Lloyds asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on Vs complaint on 8 April 2022. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Unoccupied Property warranty makes it a condition precedent to liability that:
(a) Immediate notice is given to the Insurers if the premises become unoccupied
or if there is any change in occupation of the said premises.
(b) The Premises are made secure against illegal entry.
(c) The Premises are in good condition at inception and will be so maintained and
are to be inspected at least once a week and that any defect found is repaired
immediately.
(d) All water is drained from tanks, apparatus and pipes and water turned off and
the mains and all other services to be disconnected from the mains.
(e) Warranted all letter boxes shall be sealed to prevent insertion of material.
It is further understood and agreed that:
(i) the Insurers liability hereunder is limited to loss or damage caused by FIRE,
LIGHTNING, EXPLOSION, EARTHQUAKE, AIRCRAFT damage only...
While Lloyds has relied on a number of reasons to turn down Vs claim, Im not going to
make findings on them all. Thats because I think at the time the damage occurred which
gave rise to Vs claim there was only cover under the policy for FLEEA and therefore there
wasnt an insured loss under Vs policy.
V clearly made a fair presentation of the risk when buying its policy, as it let Lloyds know
that it was undergoing a refurbishment and planned to re-open in February. However, as
Lloyds werent specifically informed that V had started trading - albeit to a limited extent -
then the level of cover hadnt been amended.I understand that V thought that the warranty only applied until the business reopened and
therefore it didnt need to let Lloyds know it had reopened. However, I havent seen anything
to indicate that Lloyds did anything which led to Vs understanding of that and ultimately the
warranty wasnt removed from the policy which meant the cover was restricted to FLEEA.
Ive noted Vs point that Lloyds representative knew V was trading, as theyd attended to
discuss the first claim. I havent seen enough information about the discussions that took
place after the first claim to decide if Lloyds should have been aware of the extent of Vs
trading at that time. However, I dont think that matters to the outcome of this complaint.
Thats because in order for me to require Lloyds to pay Vs claim due to an error, Id need to
be satisfied that Lloyds would have amended the level of cover. In this case, Lloyds said
that given Vs trading was limited they would have continued to limit the cover to FLEEA.
I recognise that V disagrees with this decision as it says it was trading and doesnt think
Lloyds would have limited cover if discussions had taken place. Its not for me to decide
whether V was fully trading, or if the business fully opened. Thats because Lloyds is entitled
to make a commercial decision about which risks it is prepared to cover based on the
information they have about those risks. Lloyds have provided an email from a senior
person at the underwriting syndicate confirming that they would have continued to limit cover
to FLEEA in Vs circumstances. I understand that V disagrees with Lloyds decision, but Im
persuaded by that statement as it has been provided by someone senior within the
syndicate. Therefore, even if Lloyds did make an error in not considering the extent of Vs
trading after the first claim, I still dont think the policy would have provided cover for Vs
second claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome V was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Lloyds didnt respond to the provisional decision by the required date. V said Lloyds has let 
it down and lied to it and it was unhappy with the whole process. V explained the impact of 
the claim not being paid on its business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Vs comments and while Im sorry to hear about the impact of the claim not 
being paid, the impact isnt enough to persuade me that it would be fair and reasonable to 
depart from my provisional decision. Therefore, Im not going to require Lloyds to pay Vs 
claim as Im satisfied Lloyds decision was fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman