DRN-3512500
The complaint
Mr F complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a timeshare product and the credit facility 
used to pay for it. The credit facility was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. 
Mr F is represented by a claims management business, which Ill call M. Where I refer to 
his submissions and arguments, I include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
On 16 February 2009 Mr and Mrs F signed an agreement with Leisure Resorts Limited, a 
company registered in the British Virgin Islands, for the purchase of 2,000 points and 
membership of the Club La Costa Vacation Club Limited (CLC), a timeshare and holiday 
business. Club points could be exchanged for holiday accommodation.
The sale agreement recorded that the price of the points was £27,745. Of that, £5,795 was 
paid by way of a trade-in, and the balance was financed by a BPF loan to Mr F. 
The loan was repaid early, in November 2014.   
In January 2020 M complained to BPF. It said that the timeshare product had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs F and that, because BPF had financed its purchase, Mr F had 
a claim against it in the same way as she had a claim against the seller. M also said that that 
the actions of the seller and BPF had meant that the loan created an unfair relationship.  
Other than sending a number of holding responses, BPF did not respond to the claims, and 
M referred the matter to this service. Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint 
be upheld. She thought there was insufficient evidence to support Mr Fs case that the 
timeshare product and the loan had been mis-sold. 
M did not accept the investigators assessment and said (for the first time) that the timeshare 
had been sold as an investment. 
The investigator reviewed the case. On reflection, she concluded that the complaint had 
been brought outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act 1980 and that this service 
could not therefore consider the claims for misrepresentation. 
M did not address that issue, but made lengthy generic submissions about CLC and 
connected businesses. It also raised concerns about the sale of the finance and the 
relationship between the credit intermediary and BPF. It suggested the intermediary had not 
complied with FCA regulations.
M asked that an ombudsman review the case.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale of the finance 
Our rules say, at DISP 2.8.1R:
The Ombudsman can only consider a complaint if:
(1) the respondent has already sent the complainant its final response or summary 
resolution communication; or
(2) in relation to a complaint that is not an EMD complaint or a PSD complaint, eight weeks 
have elapsed since the respondent received the complaint
The definition of a complaint in the FCA Handbook says that it must include an allegation 
that the complainant has suffered, or may suffer, financial loss, material distress or material 
inconvenience.
As I have indicated, M did not make any arguments about the sale of the loan itself or the 
position of the credit intermediary until after the investigator had issued two assessments of 
Mr Fs complaint. Those arguments were presented to this service, not to BPF. They do not 
allege that Mr F suffered any financial loss or material distress or inconvenience as a result 
of any alleged regulatory failing. 
In the circumstances, I am not persuaded that these new allegations constitute a 
complaint, as defined by the FCA Handbook. But, even if I were to take a different view on 
that, I do not believe this service has any power to consider that complaint, because the 
respondent, BPF, has not received it. 
If Mr F wants to refer these matters to the Financial Ombudsman Service, he must first refer 
them to BPF and await its final response or wait until eight weeks have passed  whichever 
is earlier. We may then be able to consider them as a new complaint.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership, at least in 
part. The seller and supplier was Leisure Resorts Limited, but BPFs correspondence refers 
to Leading Resorts Limited, a different company. It is not therefore clear whether section 75 
applies at all  that depends on the link between the two companies. I have nevertheless 
approached this case on the basis that they were sufficiently closely linked that section 75 
could apply. 
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) for breach of contract 
or based on misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr F into the 
timeshare contract were made on or before 16 February 2009. Mr F did not however raise 
any complaint with BPF until January 2020, nearly eleven years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside 
the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
Mr Fs complaint included a claim for breach of contract, but no details have been provided. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether it would be reasonable to make BPF 
responsible for any misrepresentation claim against the seller. In the circumstances, I dont 
believe it would be.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether to make an order, a court can have 
regard to any connected agreement; in this case, that could include the agreement for the 
sale of the timeshare product.
Mr F has not suggested that there was any inherent unfairness in the loan agreement itself. 
Rather, he says that the actions of the seller created an unfair relationship. But, as I have 
explained, many of the matters which have been raised on his behalf are not complaints or, 
if they are, they have not been raised with BPF.  
M has said that BPF facilitated a breach of fiduciary duty on the part of the seller. But the 
seller was not acting as Mr Fs financial adviser; it was selling him a timeshare product and 
introducing a finance option. It does not appear to me therefore that the seller owed Mr F a 
fiduciary duty or that BPF could have procured a breach as alleged. It follows too that BPF 
was under no obligation to disclose any commission it might have paid to the seller or the 
intermediary.  
I have no power to make an order under section 140B, and it is not for me to say whether a 
court would make an order if invited to do so. I can however make an award requiring a 
lender, for example, to make loan refunds if I think it would be fair and reasonable to do so. 
I am not persuaded however that there are any reasons why I should do so in this case.  
 My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint and I do not 
require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to take any further steps to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman