DRN-3217766
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his mothers (Mrs As) estate, about the surrender of her
investments by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, referred to as Aviva.
In short, Mr A says that Aviva is wrong to claim that it paid out money to the estate of Mrs A
in error and request the funds back. He believes the funds were paid out correctly and now
belong to his mothers estate, and therefore shouldnt have to be returned.
Mr A also says Aviva hasnt treated him fairy, it hasnt considered his evidence, and hasnt
proved to his satisfaction that the bonds (referred to as bonds or investments) were paid
out.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 18 October 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms 
part of this final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I said:
provisionally Im not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, provisionally I think its more likely (than not)
that Aviva paid the estate of Mrs A £73,426, in error. However, despite what Mr A says, Im
unable to safely say that in the circumstances Aviva behaved unreasonably in requiring the
money back.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr As strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the loss of his
mother and the recent health issues that he has experienced. I realise this must be a difficult
time for him.
Mr As provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr A, and Aviva, and reach what I think is an independent, fair
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its
for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats more likely than
not to have happened.
Its always difficult for an executor to retrospectively piece together what went on with a
business in the past, over a period and why. Especially when theyve not been privy to
discussions between investors, and between investors and the business. It can be made
even more difficult when theres limited information, and whats available doesnt make
sense or satisfy the executor. But, whilst I appreciate what Mr A says about the available
information, its all we have. I appreciate Mr As mother and stepfather kept a good record of
their finances. But, just because Mr As now unable to find documents relating to the
surrender of these investments, doesnt, on balance, mean that they werent.
Whilst I appreciate what Mr A says about why he thinks the investments were still active
when his mother passed away, Im afraid I dont agree.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I think that an error was  more
likely (than not)  made when the system migrated many years ago from the third-party
building society, and the investments were recorded as active despite being surrendered.
On balance I think the error was left unchecked and continued with impunity throughout
other system migrations. I also think the further in time it got from the initial error, the less
obvious it was and more difficult it was to detect, without an audit and going through
archived documents, which is what Aviva eventually did when the error came to light. This
explains why the issue wasnt taken up with Mrs A and her husband and dealt with years
before they sadly died.
I agree with the investigator that the error ought to have been nipped in the bud, but wasnt,
and is therefore responsible for making Mr A as the executor of his mothers estate, think
that her estate was legitimately due funds that it wasnt entitled to.
Unfortunately, errors of this kind arent entirely uncommon in relation to old investments that
have been administered by several third-party businesses over years, before being taken
over by the final business.
Often in these circumstances, consumers also end-up getting taken in by the error. I think
Mrs A and her husband wouldve raised an issue if they were aware. Despite what Mr A
says, Aviva isnt suggesting that Mrs A and her husband knew that there was a mistake and
kept quiet thereby committing fraud. Thats probably why its not asking for any other money
back. In other words, Aviva has made clear that it wont be seeking to recover any of the
previous payments made on these investments, so its not something that Mr A needs to
worry about.
I note Aviva accepts that the investments (erroneously) appeared as active on its system,
and thats why it initially paid Mrs As estate the money in error. So, Aviva, like Mr A, also
thought the investments were active, before delving deeper.
I note Aviva says that this is primarily the reason why Mrs A continued to receive statements
and an income from the investments. I think this will have no doubt (and unhelpfully)
reinforced Mr As genuinely held belief that these investments were still active. But in the
circumstances, I think its likely that Mr As belief, albeit genuine, is mistaken.
Despite what Mr A says, in this instance and considering the evidence provided by Aviva, I
dont agree that Mrs A receiving statements and an income, is of itself evidence that the
investments were active. Im also mindful that the new solicitors might have some
paperwork, but theyre in a mess, and a lot of the documents have been lost. Its possible
that surrender documents relating to these investments have been lost.
Aviva has provided archived evidence from August 1990  which I assume wasnt readily
available and thats why it took over a month to source and go through  which relates to
surrender instructions and confirmation of policy numbers, and includes notification sent to
Mrs A at her and her husbands address at the time. The correspondence also refers to the
surrender value and the inclusion of a cheque. Aviva has also provided evidence of 
correspondence with HM Inspector of Taxes relating to a chargeable event. On balance all
of this relates to the surrender of large number of investments that Mr A has no record for
and cant explain.On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im persuaded thats its more likely than not
the investments in question were surrendered in August 1990 and Mrs A was paid the
proceeds in the form of a cheque.
It seems that Mr A wasnt privy to this information at the time, but in my opinion his lengthy
response to the investigators view doesnt adequately address the archived evidence. I also
dont think that him not being able to find a significant deposit into the only bank account that
he was aware of at the time, is evidence that Mrs A wasnt paid. The money couldve been
cashed elsewhere or paid into an account that Mr A simply wasnt aware of, or an account
for which the documents have been lost.
None of what Mr A says adequately deals with the archived evidence supplied by Aviva. Like
the investigator, I dont accept Mr As suggestion that these investments were surrendered
and reinvested under similar policy numbers. It doesnt explain or deal with the archived
evidence supplied by Aviva.
In other words, having considered Mr As latest submissions, post investigators view, my
decision remains unchanged. In my opinion, nothing that Mr A points to undermines what
Aviva says in this case. In other words, nothing that he says suggests (on balance) that the
policies werent already surrendered.
I appreciate Mr As comments about Aviva not being able to provide more evidence. But
businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely. So, in the circumstances I cant
blame Aviva for not being to provide more information or answer Mr As questions to his
satisfaction, such as proof of a migration error and exactly when it happened  especially in
relation to investments that are over 30 years old and administered by several businesses.
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr A has suffered significant distress and inconvenience dealing
with this issue, I should make clear that under the rules governing our service, Mr A (as the
executor and representative) as well as the estate of Mrs A, arent technically entitled to any
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Im aware Mr A thinks that he is eligible to
receive compensation and that £500 isnt enough.
In the circumstances, awarding Mr A £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
wasnt correct. I can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset
experienced by its customer, not by a third party. So, Mrs As estate would only technically
be entitled to compensation for financial loss and Mr A isnt entitled to any compensation.
Im mindful that Aviva has already agreed to pay Mr A £500 compensation for the distress
and inconvenience caused. Its a matter for Aviva whether it keeps to this agreement,
although I would expect it to do so.
The legal route is of course open to Aviva and it is entitled to manage expectation in terms of
future court action if the money isnt returned. But I dont think Mr A can be criticised for
making sure that hes not returning money that belongs to his mothers estate. Im mindful
that Mr A himself doesnt really know what happened between 1990 and 2000, but he wasnt
comfortable just handing over the money unless some of his questions were answered.
In conclusion, on the face of the evidence and on balance, Im satisfied that the money was
paid to the estate of Mrs A in error by Aviva, and in the circumstances, I think its entitled to
ask for it back. In other words, its not unreasonable for it to ask for the money back. 
I appreciate Mr A will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaintand give him what he wants.
Aviva responded and agreed with my PD. However, it clarified that it hasnt offered to pay Mr 
A any compensation. Although its minded to agree with the investigators rationale for doing 
so, it will pursue the return of the money and will consider any compensation once the 
monies have been returned in full. 
Mr A responded but didnt agree with my PD. Having been chased for a response by the 
investigator (at my request)  a day or so before the deadline  Mr A sought more time to 
respond. He also requested the key documents provided by Aviva that he says he hasnt 
previously seen. Mr A then sought more time to speak to a solicitor and consider the PD 
further. He sought an extension to that request because his solicitor had broken his wrist and 
couldnt drive into the office. 
On 14 December 2021, Mr A provided the following submissions in response to my PD:
His solicitor doesnt have any additional submissions to provide.  
His solicitor, like him, maintains that the evidence from Aviva isnt conclusive, and 
since hes not found an account into which the money has been paid, it suggests the 
investments havent been encashed. 
Hes now made further enquires with a third-party bank, as there was some 
suggestion of errors made with bank account numbers. He has asked if the bank can 
forward statements for the period between 2000 to 2002 that might show what has 
and hasnt gone in.  
Hes aware that this period is beyond the period that banks are likely to hold 
information, but hes hoping that it will. The bank has told him that it will get back to 
him either way in 10 working days. 
Even if this information doesnt help me reach a decision it might help with any follow 
up cases. 
He would appreciate if I could defer my final decision until after the Christmas break. 
His mothers Will is being contested by a third-party, and hes had a lot to deal with.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Mr A, I dont consider that any new material points have 
been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been considered 
by me, in my provisional decision (PD). 
Ive given Mr A time  on several occasions  so that he can go through the PD, see a 
solicitor  even though hes been self-representing his mothers estate throughout this 
process  and provide any new material submissions. 
I made clear to Mr A from the outset that I agreed with the investigators conclusion 
regarding the money paid in error to Mrs As estate, however I didnt agree that Mr A as the 
representative of his mothers estate was entitled to any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr A says, I still think its more 
likely (than not) that Aviva paid the estate of Mrs A £73,426, in error. And, Im unable to 
safely say that in the circumstances Aviva behaved unreasonably in requiring that the money 
be paid back.
Despite giving Mr A additional time, nothing that he has said in response to my PD has 
persuaded me to change my decision. I dont believe I need to wait any longer before 
proceeding to my final decision.   
I understand that Aviva didnt confirm that it will pay Mr A any compensation but agrees with 
the investigators rationale for doing so. I apologise if I interpreted this as an undertaking by 
Aviva to pay Mr A compensation as suggested by the investigator. 
Whether (or not) Aviva decides to pay Mr A (as representative of his mothers estate) any 
compensation upon return of the monies, Im unable to ask it to do so for the reasons Ive 
explained in my PD. 
In other words, the investigator awarding Mr A £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused wasnt correct. I can only tell a business to pay compensation for 
distress and inconvenience experienced by its customer, not by a third party. So, in the 
circumstances Mr A isnt entitled to any compensation, although Aviva has said it will 
consider the position. 
In conclusion, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the money was 
paid to the estate of Mrs A in error by Aviva, and in the circumstances, I think its entitled to 
ask for it back. In other words, its not unreasonable for it to ask for the money back. 
I appreciate Mr A will be thoroughly unhappy with my conclusion. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration and the difficult year that hes had, Im not satisfied Aviva has done anything 
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman