DRN-3573470
The complaint
Mr P complains about advice he received from Phoenix Life Limited when taking out a whole 
of life policy in 1998. 
Mr P is being represented in the complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). For 
ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr P.
What happened
In 1998 Mr P spoke with Phoenix and took out a whole of life policy which was surrendered 
some four years later.
In 2021 Mr P complained to Phoenix saying the policy had been mis-sold because:
- the reviewable nature of the policy wasnt explained
- his financial position was stretched
- no alternatives were discussed
- there was no capacity to pay for the plan into retirement
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint so Mr P came to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They considered all of the above points and didnt 
think Phoenix had treated Mr P unfairly. 
Mr P remained unhappy, so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale took place in 1998, and was surrendered some four years later, so its not 
surprising that there isnt a full record of what happened. In situations like this I must come to 
a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened based on the balance of 
probabilities.
At the time of the sale the adviser completed a Planning Your Future form which was 
followed up by a recommendation letter and a product illustration. This records what was 
discussed between the adviser and Mr P. Its quite some time ago, and I wasnt party to the 
conversation, but I find evidence like this from the time persuasive about what was 
discussed.
The letter shows that Mr P was 27 years old, married, and had two financially dependent 
young children. It shows Mr Ps financial commitments, as well as self-employed income, 
and that he felt he could put aside £50 month each for cover. 
Reviewable nature
The product illustration from the time says:
Although a nil cash value is shown in THE LATER YEARS, the plan would, in practice, have 
been reviewed and the sum assured reduced so that a nil cash value could not arise. 
I cant of course say for sure what the adviser discussed with Mr P at the time however the 
illustration makes clear the policy will be reviewed. This type of policy is reviewable by 
nature, so I think it most likely was discussed when Mr P was given the illustration and 
during conversations with the adviser.
I also note that the policy was surrendered before any review took place, so Mr P wasnt 
affected by the reviewable nature of the policy. 
Financial position
The Planning Your Future form records that Mr P had a monthly disposable income of £600 
and confirms that he can put aside £50 for cover. The letter also confirms You have 
selected this cover based on your affordability today.
Based on this information Im satisfied Mr Ps finances werent stretched by the sale of this 
policy.
I also note that the policy was cancelled due to a change in Mr Ps circumstances, rather 
than it not being affordable at the time of the sale.
Alternatives
The Planning Your Future letter says You would also prefer to be with the whole of life 
rather than selected term, even if it may be cheaper. 
Based on this Im satisfied alternatives such as a term assurance policy was discussed but 
that Mr P opted for the whole of life policy. 
Capacity in retirement
The Planning Your Future form records a planned retirement age of 50 for Mr P as well as 
details of other existing cover already in place.
In the absence of any other information I think it most likely that retirement was discussed 
when the planned retirement age was recorded on the form.
Overall suitability 
After carefully considering all of the available evidence Im satisfied that the policy was 
suitable for Mr P and it met the needs as recorded in the Planning Your Future 
Recommendation Report. This has included thinking about the overall suitability based on all 
the information from both parties, as well as the particular points raised by Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022. Warren Wilson
Ombudsman