DRN-4210224
The complaint
Mr H complains through a representative that Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Quidie) 
provided him with loans without carrying out the appropriate affordability checks.
 
What happened
Mr H was granted two loans and Ive summarised his borrowing in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £150.00 31/01/2021 26/02/2021 4 £61.70
2 £300.00 10/06/2021 31/10/2021 4 £116.74
Quidie considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loans because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed Mr H 
should be able to afford them. However, Quidie explained that should Mr H withdraw his 
complaint then as a gesture of goodwill it would pay him £45 and it would be willing to delete 
the loans from the credit file. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Hs representative referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said Quidie had 
reasonable grounds to believe Mr H could afford the loans and Quidie had carried out 
proportionate checks including a credit search. 
Mr Hs representative didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  As 
no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidie had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Quidies checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidie should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Hs complaint and I agree given that there were only two loans with a four 
month break in-between them.  
Quidie was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint and having done so, Ive concluded this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld and Ive explained why below. 
Before the loans were approved, Quidie asked Mr H for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £4,000 per month for loan one and £3,700 per month for loan two. Quidie 
says the income figures were checked by using a third-party report which gave Quidie a high 
level of confidence that Mr Hs declared income was accurate. Given these were the first 
loans, it was reasonable for Quidie to have relied on the results of its check. 
For loan one, Mr H also declared monthly outgoings of £580 which was broken down as 
£400 for housing, £90 utilities, £45 for food and £45 on credit commitments. For loan two, 
Mr H declared outgoings of £1,360. This was broken down as £385 for housing, £70 for 
utilities, £313 for food, £94 transport and £498 on credit commitments.  
Quidie then went about checking this information. Firstly, Quidie said it used an affordability 
report provided by a credit reference agency and that report indicated that the amount Mr H 
paid each month to his other credit commitments was more than the zero he had declared 
for loan one and the £498 for loan two. Based on the results of its checks it increased Mr Hs 
credit commitments to £520 for loan one and £563 for loan two. 
Secondly, while Mr H declared monthly housing costs of £400 and £385 per month, following 
taking information from Mr Hs credit report Quidie increased this cost to £771 per month and 
Quidie used this higher figure for its affordability assessment. 
Thirdly, excluding credit commitments and the mortgage Mr H had declared other living 
costs of £135 per month for loan one and £477 for loan two. Quidie says this is much lower 
than averages provided by the Money Advice Service (MAS). Using MAS averages for 
someone in a similar situation to Mr H for example income and age it concluded his living costs should be around £1,168 per month and so this is the figure which was used for 
Quidies assessment. 
Overall, Quidie using the MAS average for loan one of £1,168 of living costs, plus housing 
costs of £771 and the credit commitments of £520 gave total monthly outgoings of £2,459. 
With an income figure of £4,000 this left £1,541 per month in disposable income to afford the 
repayments of around £62. Loan one looked affordable to Quidie at the time. 
For loan two, following the same calculations as above, Mr H was left with £1,249 per month 
to afford his repayments of around £117, again the loan looked affordable. 
Before each loan was approved Quidie also carried out a credit search and it has provided 
the summary for loan one and the full results it received from the credit reference agency for 
loan two. It is worth saying here that although Quidie carried out credit searches, there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Quidie 
couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received.
The headline data wouldnt have given Quidie cause for concern, it knew that Mr H didnt 
have any defaults within the past year, no other forms of insolvency and no Count Court 
Judgements. It also knew that Mr H had around £27,00 of existing debt through 10 active 
accounts by loan two  and half that debt was on a recently opened hire purchase account. 
It did know about the open accounts that Mr H had and I can see from the loan two results 
that he had recently opened a new hire purchase agreement for a vehicle in March 2021. 
Overall, the open accounts were up to date with no recent adverse payment information. 
Although having looked at the open accounts including loans and credit cards, I do think 
Quidie had information, when loan two was advanced to suggest his monthly commitments 
were at least £789  which is slightly more than Quidie had initially calculated. But even if 
you substitute this larger figure into the rest of the affordability assessment, Mr H still had 
sufficient disposable income to be able to afford his loan. 
There was some adverse credit file data, Quidie knew that Mr H had defaulted on an 
account in November 2018, but he had satisfied the default by September 2019. There were 
also arrears  recorded for two months on a loan in September 2020. But this loan had been 
brought up to date and then closed. And looking at the rest of the credit reports, I dont think 
there was enough adverse data to have either prompted further checks or for Quidie to have 
declined these loans. 
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Quidie 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr H 
had provided. So, while Mr Hs representative has provided his bank statements, in this 
case, it wouldve been disproportionate for Quidie to have considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for Quidie to have relied on the 
information Mr H gave about his income and expenditure as well as its additional checks to 
show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr H was having financial difficulties 
or that the loans would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman