DRN-2658950
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited handled a claim against her 
motor policy from another driver and the confusion that followed concerning her No Claims 
Bonus (NCB).
 What happened
 Miss A was involved in a near collision in March 2020. She said there was black ice and 
some cars had piled up, but Miss A was able to stop in time without hitting any other vehicle. 
One of the other drivers believed her car had hit his causing damage, so Miss A said she 
reported this to esure explaining the circumstances and explaining the other driver was 
mistaken about her car.
Later in April 2020 this other driver made a claim on Miss As policy and esure contacted 
her. She explained she had already explained the circumstances back in March. Esure 
couldnt find any detail of this initially, which Miss A said she found distressing as esure 
implied she wasnt telling the truth.
Eventually esure did find the call recording of her initial report and said the adviser hadnt 
dealt with it correctly and feed back was given. It paid her £50 compensation for this.
Meanwhile however, Miss A required confirmation of her NCB. Esure said it wouldnt update 
until her policy expired in June 2020. There was also confusion as to whether it was four 
years or five years NCB which meant Miss A was in difficulty in obtaining quotes from other 
insurers. There was also an issue with her address, because she was intending to move to a 
new house, plus she was changing her car and changing her occupation. Miss A said esure 
didnt handle any of these issues well and caused her considerable distress. She also said it 
didnt tell her what it was doing with this claim from this other driver against her policy.
Eventually the other driver withdrew their claim which meant it wasnt affecting Miss As 
policy and her NCB was confirmed as being unaffected. 
Esures final response letter didnt deal with all of Miss As concerns so she brought her 
complaint to us. The investigator upheld it recommending esure increase its compensation 
to £200, plus confirming to Miss A in writing what her NCB is for her own records. He also 
recommended esure should pay 50% of the admin fee she had to pay her new insurer to 
correct her NCB. 
Miss A accepted this but esure didnt respond, therefore Miss As complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
There is no dispute in my view, that esures handling of Miss As issues could have been a 
lot better. Its apologised and paid her £50 for failing to input the details of her notification call 
about the potential of another driver claiming on her policy.
 
However, I dont consider thats enough. It didnt update her about this other drivers claim, it 
wrongly thought her car had damage when it was clear she didnt hit any other driver. It 
made mistakes when she asked for a quote to change her address. It didnt explain its 
issues over her NCB, causing her unnecessary problems with her new insurer. Her NCB 
obviously was affected by the claim from the other driver, reducing her NCB until the claim 
from the other driver was discontinued, but esure didnt deal with Miss As questions about 
this (as its admitted partly to date), as it should have. It also got confused itself as to 
whether her NCB was four years or five years writing contradictory letters to her about the 
issue. 
This greatly distressed and inconvenienced Miss A, as she has clearly and consistently told 
us. We asked esure for more clarity on what happened and to see its full case notes, but that 
information wasnt forthcoming. So, considering everything that Ive seen, I think its 
appropriate that esure now pay Miss A a total of £200 compensation, for the several failures 
of its communication with Miss A over this matter. The investigator mistakenly thought esure 
had already offered £100 compensation in his view and for clarity purposes it only offered 
Miss A £50 compensation. However, I think its right that the total amount of compensation 
should be £200 and its in line with other awards I have made in similar circumstances.
All this meant Miss A had to buy another policy from another insurer with only four years 
NCB and then had to change it one with five years, which caused her to have a pay an 
admin charge of £70. However, the timing of Miss As new policy on the expiry of this one, 
plus the timing of the withdrawal of the other drivers claim against Miss As policy all 
happened at the roughly the same time. This is because her renewal invitation from esure 
sent on 30 June 2020 said she had four years NCB. But on 2 July 2020 the other driver 
withdrew his claim against her policy bringing her NCB up to five years. When Miss A asked 
esure for confirmation of her NCB on 14 July 2020 it wrongly said it was four years and then 
had to send her another letter the following day confirming it was five years.
 
So even without the communication difficulties from esure, Miss A might well have found 
herself in the same position having to amend her NCB and thus incurring a fee. However, I 
consider esures confusion over the matter didnt help things, so I consider its right it pays 
her 50% of the admin fee she incurred in clarifying her correct NCB with her new insurer with 
interest. 
I think however esure did eventually properly confirm the correct NCB, so I dont require it to 
do it again.
 
My final decision
 So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Miss A the total sum of £200 compensation taking account of the £50 it had 
already paid her.
Refund Miss A the sum of £35 being 50% of the admin fee she had to pay to her new 
insurer, adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date she paid this admin fee 
to the date it refunds her. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, 
appropriate documentation should be provided to Miss A for HMRC purposes. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman