DRN-3389128
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car supplied by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited under a conditional sale 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2021 Miss H took a car from Moneybarn under a conditional sale agreement. The 
car was around seven years old and had covered around 40,000 miles. The cash price was 
£8,440.
Very soon after she took delivery of the car, Miss H says she started to experience problems 
with it. She contacted Moneybarn, which arranged an inspection by an expert engineer. That 
inspection identified a number of problems. I do not need to set them out here, but the 
engineer concluded that they had been present at the point of supply. He expressed the 
view too that Moneybarn was responsible for fixing them  although he also said that they 
were commensurate with the cars age and mileage. It was estimated that repairs would cost 
around £3,000.
In the meantime, Miss H referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
considered what had happened. He recommended that Moneybarn arrange for repairs to be 
carried out, refund 10% of the monthly payments Miss H had made (to reflect the impaired 
use of the car), refund taxi fares and the cost of a diagnostic report (nearly £200 in total) and 
pay Miss H £150 in recognition of the distress she had suffered and the inconvenience to 
which she had been put.
Miss H did not accept the investigators view. In the meantime, however, she returned the 
car to Moneybarn. I understand she also entered into an individual voluntary arrangement at 
around the same time.
Moneybarn calculated what was due under the conditional sale agreement. This amounted, 
it said, to just over £6,750. That sum included £1,440 for repairs to scratches which it said 
were Miss Hs responsibility. It took into account the amount it had received from the sale of 
the car at auction, but not did give any allowance for the faults Miss H said were present at 
delivery. Moneybarn said however that it would write off the amount it said was owing and 
would not seek payment from Miss H.
I reviewed the case. Because Miss H had by then returned the car, repairs were no longer 
possible or necessary; that meant that the investigators recommendation could not be put 
into effect.
I therefore went on to consider whether Moneybarns decision not to seek any further 
payment from Miss H was fair. I noted that Moneybarn said the amount due under the 
conditional sale agreement was £6,750. I noted too that Miss H had three claims against 
Moneybarn: a claim for about £3,000 for repairs because the car was not of satisfactory 
condition at delivery; a claim that she was not liable for body damage; and a claim for about 
£200 for taxi fares and a diagnostic report. She said too that she should be compensated for 
the inconvenience she had been put to and the distress she had suffered. 
I concluded that, if I accepted that all of Miss Hs claims were valid, their value would be 
significantly less than the amount Moneybarn said it was writing off. Its decision not to 
pursue Miss H for the amount it said it was owed was, therefore, fair.
Miss H did not accept my provisional conclusions. She said that she had been left out of 
pocket.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not accept that Moneybarns decision to write off the amount owing under the 
conditional sale agreement leaves Miss H out of pocket. If the car had been of satisfactory 
quality and Miss H had returned it when she did and in good condition, she would have had 
to pay around £5,310 (that is, £6,750 minus £1,440) to end the agreement. If Moneybarn 
had given her credit for the cost of repairs, her taxi fares and the cost of the diagnostic 
report, she would still have owed around £2,110. Moneybarn has however decided not to 
seek payment from her.
I accept of course that Miss H will not receive a payment as the investigator had initially 
recommended. In my view, however, it would not be fair on Moneybarn to require it to make 
a payment to Miss H after it has agreed not to pursue a debt which, on any basis, amounts 
to at least £2,000.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman