DRN-3320021
The complaint
Mrs L complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). She isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as RSA are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mrs L made a claim under her home insurance policy after subsidence problems at her 
property. It took RSA a long time to advance the claim and to look to finalise its position on 
the subsidence claim and Mrs L complained to RSA and then this service about this. And 
she raised a separate complaint about whether the damage caused at the front of her 
property in this claim was linked to damage caused to the rear of her property which was 
declined under a separate claim - but that issue has been advanced separately.
Our investigator looked into things for her and upheld her complaint. She was of the view 
that RSA delayed the claim significantly and that it should pay Mrs L £350 compensation in 
acknowledgement of this. This was because RSA contributed to a number of delays that 
meant Mrs L was left with the stress and worry of dealing with her subsidence claim over a 
prolonged period. And she felt that RSA shouldnt have left Mrs L to deal with the removal of 
vegetation that was contributing to the claim herself.
RSA didnt fully comment on the position outlined by the investigator but said that it wasnt 
responsible for the removal of the vegetation. So the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I note that RSA seem to agree with 
the general position outlined by the investigator but just feel that the compensation level 
should be reduced but I dont agree. Ill explain why.
As both sides are fully aware of the issues faced and the various delays caused by RSA in 
looking to advance Mrs Ls claim I dont propose to go over the details or rehearse the 
arguments again here. Ill simply focus on whether I feel the level of compensation offered is 
fair.
I can understand why RSA has outlined that it doesnt feel that the removal of the vegetation 
and cause of the problem was its responsibility. But as our investigator has explained, in 
subsidence cases where clay shrinkage due to vegetation is the most likely cause then the 
cause of the movement would need to be stopped in order to carry out any lasting and 
efficient repair. So, I would expect an insurer to make the removal arrangements and I think 
in a case like this that would have been the sensible and practical thing to do. 
But either way, I think the £350 compensation level is fair in any event. I say this as it isnt 
disputed that RSAs appointed contractor delayed investigations into the subsidence for 
many months and the matter has dragged on unnecessarily. RSA has also acknowledged 
that it wasnt proactive and its communication with Mrs L wasnt good enough. And RSA 
failed to follow up on the further investigations for months when it was identified that there 
was still movement at the property.
So, having reviewed the timeline and contact notes from RSAs contractor Im satisfied that 
there were a number of delays by RSA. And it took Mrs Ls proactive steps for the monitoring 
of her property to be reconvened. Plus, there were lots of occasions when RSA didnt update 
Mrs L when she specifically asked for updates or the responses provided were generic and 
didnt answer her concerns. I accept that claims can be drawn out, especially subsidence 
claims during the pandemic, but there were numerous identifiable delays. And so, I think Mrs 
L should be awarded £350 for the clear stress, worry and inconvenience all this caused her. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mrs L £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman