DRN-3630245
The complaint
Ms G complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim she made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G holds travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with her building society.
In October 2018, Ms G was abroad on holiday. Unfortunately, she suffered a transient 
ischaemic attack and had to be hospitalised for treatment. She made a claim on her travel 
insurance policy for the medical expenses she incurred. UKI accepted the claim.
Subsequently, in January 2019, Ms G suffered an episode of atrial fibrillation. About a month 
later, she received a bill from the hospital abroad which she sent on to UKI for payment. UKI 
received the bill on 18 February 2019.
On 24 June 2020, Ms G received a letter from the hospitals collections department 
demanding payment of $19,329.94, as her medical expenses hadnt been paid. She got in 
touch with UKI, which told her itd call her back. It didnt do so. Ms G had to chase UKI to find 
out what was happening. Ultimately, UKI settled the bill in November 2020.
Ms G was unhappy with the way UKI had handled her claim and she complained. She told 
UKI that shed become very ill worrying about the unsettled bill and that shed been 
hospitalised. UKI accepted itd unnecessarily delayed payment of the bill for over a year and 
that it hadnt called Ms G back when it said it would. So it offered her £500 compensation to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
But Ms G didnt think UKI had offered fair compensation to recognise the impact its handling 
of the claim had had on her. Thats because she felt the matter had caused her condition to 
deteriorate, which ultimately required surgery. So she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think UKIs compensation offer went far enough. Ms G provided 
medical evidence which showed that her atrial fibrillation had been stable between January 
2019 and June 2020, when it had worsened. She felt the evidence supported that the timing 
of the worsening of Ms Gs symptoms coincided with the receipt of the demand for payment. 
She acknowledged that there was no evidence to say that the change in Ms Gs condition 
was as a result of UKIs inactions or that surgery could otherwise have been avoided.  But 
she wasnt persuaded that £500 fairly reflected the stress, worry and anxiety this matter 
wouldve had on Ms G at an already worrying time. So she recommended that UKI should 
pay a total of £1000 compensation.
UKI disagreed. It said that it had spoken to Ms G on a number of occasions between 
September and November 2020 and she hadnt made it aware of her medical issues. It 
stated that there was no evidence to link these medical episodes to the service Ms G had 
received and that the nature of atrial fibrillation is that it can come and go. And it didnt think 
it'd been fair for us to rely on medical evidence which it hadnt had an opportunity to consider 
when it had issued its final response to Ms Gs complaint.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that UKI must pay Ms G a total of £1000 compensation and Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
service Ms G received and the available medical evidence, in deciding whether UKI made a 
fair offer of compensation.
UKI has accepted that it didnt handle Ms Gs claim promptly or fairly. It acknowledges that it 
received the hospital bill in February 2019 and didnt take any further action. It also agrees 
that receiving such a demand for payment around 16 months after submitting the bill 
wouldve caused Ms G stress, worry and inconvenience. Im pleased to note that it did 
acknowledge its mistakes and made an offer of £500 to recognise this. And in some 
circumstances, I might conclude that this represented a fair offer.
But when considering what fair compensation is, I need to carefully think about the individual 
circumstances of a particular consumer. As a starting point here, I think any person who 
received a demand for payment for a substantial sum of money as the result of a financial 
business error in settling a bill is very likely to suffer distress, inconvenience and worry. And 
a mistake by a financial business can impact consumers very differently, depending on their 
own specific circumstances. This means that in deciding fair compensation in this case, Ms 
Gs particular circumstances and health need to be carefully considered. 
Ms G has provided us with medical evidence, from the treating hospital, her consultant and 
her GP. Its common ground that Ms G suffered an episode of atrial fibrillation in January 
2019  around a month before she originally sent the medical bill to UKI. 
In December 2020, the consultant stated in a letter to Ms Gs GP that: Until June 2020, she 
was doing well but she told me that over the last six months she is not doing quite (as) well 
as she can.
An A&E discharge letter dated 25 July 2020 shows that Ms G attended the hospital suffering 
from palpitations, together with numbness and pins and needles in her left hand. She was 
diagnosed with an episode of atrial fibrillation.
And Ms Gs GP provided a letter which said: I can confirm that (Ms G) did not require 
emergency care between 18/1/19 and 24/7/20.
Ive thought about all of the available evidence very carefully. The hospitals demand letter 
was dated 24 June 2020. It seems UKI reopened the claim on the same day. And its 
complaint notes say that Ms G got in touch with it in June 2020 to look into the claim. Ms G 
called UKI on 3 July 2020 to state that shed received the bill and was told shed be called 
back. UKI acknowledges that this call back didnt happen. 
The timeframe here seems to tally-up with the timeline of Ms Gs symptoms worsening. I say 
that because the GP has indicated that Ms G didnt require any emergency treatment until 
late-July 2020. This was around 18 months after she needed emergency treatment in 
January 2019. And the consultant supports this view  referring to the fact that Ms Gs condition had been stable until June 2020. 
With that said, as the investigator explained, theres no clear medical evidence here that 
UKIs handling of this claim did worsen Ms Gs condition or that she wouldnt have required 
surgery but for UKIs mistake. So I cant fairly or safely draw such a conclusion. What the 
evidence does paint a picture of though is that Ms Gs health was worsening during the 
relevant period, between receiving the demand for payment up until November 2020, when 
UKI finally settled the bill.
So I agree with the investigator that in this particular case, the key issue here is that not only 
was Ms G dealing with a deterioration in her cardiac symptoms and had required emergency 
treatment, but she also had to deal with the anxiety, upset, stress and worry that receiving 
such a bill wouldve likely caused her. I dont doubt that this caused her substantial additional 
upset and anxiety at an already very worrying time. And it doesnt appear either that this 
matter was resolved fairly swiftly after Ms G let UKI know about the demand for payment. 
The matter seems to have been prolonged for around another four months and it isnt clear 
why the bill wasnt settled promptly once UKI became aware of the demand for payment. 
And in my view, this further delay is likely to have continued to impact on Ms Gs state of 
mind and contributed to the anxiety and stress she was already experiencing as a result of 
her medical condition.
Ive considered UKIs point that it didnt have sight of the medical evidence Ms G sent us 
before making its offer. But its notes dated 9 November 2020 say: 
No one got back in touch and the (policyholder) became very ill worrying about this and was 
hospitalised ( she has AF ) this has caused her a lot of stress and upset.
This was 10 days before UKI issued its final response to Ms Gs complaint. So it seems to 
me that Ms G did let UKI know that shed been ill and had had to be hospitalised. Therefore, 
it was open to UKI to ask for medical evidence from Ms G to support her position at this 
point. Ive seen nothing to suggest it did so. Our investigator also provided UKI with an 
outline of the medical evidence for its comments ahead of issuing her assessment. I think 
then that UKI did have reasonable time to ask for and consider the relevant medical 
information.
Overall, taking into account Ms Gs own specific circumstances and on the facts of this case, 
I find that £1000 compensation in total (less any compensation amount UKI has already 
paid) is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms G total compensation of £1000 (less any 
compensation amount its already paid in respect of this complaint.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman