DRN-3881126
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that they understood that when their interest only mortgage came to 
an end that they would have the option of extending it but were unable to do so. Mr and Mrs 
N want National Westminster Bank Plc to extend the term of their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N have an interest only mortgage with NatWest that matured in May 2022. From 
various discussions and letters theyve had over the years with their personal bank  
managers, they understood that they would be able to extend the mortgage term on its 
maturity but have now been told that NatWest wont give them a new interest-only mortgage 
over the age of 70. Mr and Mrs N would have reached that age when the mortgage matured. 
Mr and Mrs N could get a repayment mortgage up to age 80 but it would be unaffordable. Mr 
and Mrs N say that this is something they should have been aware of, but NatWest say that 
it wouldnt usually discuss its mortgage lending policy with a customer during the course of a 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs Ns hope that an inheritance from Mr Ns father who is in his 90s 
would pay off the mortgage. 
NatWest says that its up to Mr and Mrs N to ensure that they have a repayment vehicle in 
place to repay the capital lump sum when the mortgage matures. The bank noted that in 
2008 Mr and Mrs Ns repayment vehicle was an ISA. Under its policy it cant offer them a 
further interest only mortgage as they are both over 70 but could look at affordability for a 
repayment mortgage until they get to age 80. In the meantime, it offered them a one-year 
extension of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs N consider that period inadequate. Our investigator 
didnt believe that NatWest had done anything wrong and didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs N disagreed and asked for a review.
My provisional decision
I considered this complaint and although I agreed with the outcome suggested by our 
investigator, there were other matters that were relevant to my decision, not covered by our 
investigator, so I issued a Provisional Decision which I set out below:
Mr and Mrs N agreed with NatWest that if they borrowed money on an interest only basis 
that they would repay it by 2021 but they have been unable to do that. NatWest should 
engage with Mr and Mrs N in advance of the mortgage maturing in relation to how they 
intended to repay that money. I see that in March 2017 four years before the term expired 
that Mr and Mrs N returned a form to NatWests Pre-Maturity team indicating that they 
would sell the property to repay the mortgage.
In May 2020, a year in advance of the maturity, NatWest received a letter from Mr and Mrs N 
to say that their repayment strategy was now an inheritance from Mr Ns father who was 
aged 95 at that time and that should circumstances not change within the next 12 months 
that they would want a mortgage extension to accommodate that strategy. Mr and Mrs N 
then seemed to have a call with a member of NatWests end of term team in June 2021 who 
told them that because of NatWests policy that a mortgage extension beyond one year 
wouldnt be available.
On 11 June 2021, Mr and Mrs N told NatWest that they would be talking to an independent 
financial adviser (IFA). Mr and Mrs N tell me that they got financial advice from an IFA and 
the advice was that they should apply for a lifetime mortgage and pay off the NatWest 
mortgage using that borrowing of £240,000 and funds from their own investments. Mr and 
Mrs Ns house has recently been valued at £680,000 and the outstanding mortgage to 
NatWest is £294,000.
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint raises a number of issues not all of which were dealt with by our 
investigator. Ill refer to these issues but, having considered them, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint.
Mr and Mrs N complain specifically about NatWest suggesting that they could extend their 
mortgage when its policy wouldnt allow them to. Mr and Mrs N seems to have got 
encouragement from two of NatWests personal bankers that they may be able to get a term 
extension on their mortgage and correspondence from NatWest  such as the letter from 
NatWest dated April 2017 - indicated that extending the term of the mortgage may be 
available. I should say that Mr and Mrs N have in fact got an extension of the mortgage for 
12 months. I note that Mr and Mrs N dont suggest that they were offered any more extended 
period in their discussions with NatWest.
Mr and Mrs N were refused a new mortgage by NatWest because of their age which meant 
that they didnt qualify for a new interest only mortgage. This raises a potential issue of age 
discrimination contrary to the Equality Act 2010. Lenders such as NatWest can benefit from 
a financial service exemption to complying with the terms of the Act in respect of age if they 
can show that they came to their policy following a risk assessment based on relevant 
information from a reliable source or if this was a proportionate means of achieving a 
legitimate aim. Whether NatWest was in fact in breach of the Equality Act is a matter for the 
courts and not me to decide. But I must consider it as I have to consider the applicable law, 
as it applies to this particular case.
But even if I were to conclude that NatWest was in breach of that legislation and to ask it to 
ignore or overturn its policy and allow Mr and Mrs N to apply for a mortgage, they are 
unlikely to get one because their repayment strategy - to utilise an expected but uncertain 
inheritance - is under the regulations that apply to mortgages an unacceptable repayment 
strategy. So, although there is a potential issue of age discrimination, I dont consider there 
is any benefit to Mr and Mrs N in pursuing this further as even if they were successful in 
proving it, they still wouldnt get the mortgage they wanted not because of their age but 
because of the regulations that apply to mortgages.
The other issue I believe that wasnt covered by our investigator that I consider relevant is 
whether NatWest considered Mr and Mrs Ns best interests in dealing with them. Best 
interests in this context means considering what strategy would allow them to stay in their 
home and pay off their debt. Mr and Mrs N contacted an IFA and are progressing a lifetime 
mortgage with another lender which seems to allow them to achieve their objectives. I 
understand that NatWest doesnt provide lifetime mortgages. It seems to me that a lifetime 
mortgage may meet their requirements. Any other interest only mortgage requires a definite 
term ending and Mr and Mrs Ns proposed repayment strategy doesnt have one. So, I 
consider that Mr and Mrs Ns best interests are served better with the strategy they are now 
pursuing than with any alternative that NatWest would provide.
One other issue of complaint raised by Mr and Mrs N is that the personal bank managers 
that Mr and Mrs N discussed this matter with suggested an extension was possible but Mr 
and Mrs N couldnt get a mortgage because of NatWests rules and they felt they should 
have been apprised of NatWests policies. In fact, Mr and Mrs N did get an extension so its 
difficult to say they were misled. Clearly NatWest made contact through their pre-maturities team about the situation post-maturity and I cant see that Mr and Mrs N supplied them with 
any incorrect information. I agree with NatWest that I wouldnt expect it to keep a customer 
apprised of its lending policies throughout the term of the mortgage and especially in this 
case given that Mr and Mrs N intended, until recently, to repay the mortgage at the end of 
term. So, for the above reasons, subject to any further submissions or evidence I receive 
from Mr and Mrs N or from NatWest my intention is not to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited further comments from Mr and Mrs N and NatWest. NatWest had no further 
comments to make. Mr and Mrs N said that they were disappointed with my Provisional 
Decision. They said they would like the bank to take more care about the generic letters they 
write out to consumers when some of the solutions suggested were unavailable to them; that 
I didnt share their concerns about no notes being kept of their discussions with personal 
bank managers and noted my comments about age discrimination.
I thank Mr and Mrs N for their comments. I appreciate that they are naturally disappointed 
that I did not uphold their complaint but having reviewed the evidence and submissions I 
consider that my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint. Mr and 
Mrs N are disappointed I didnt pick up on specific procedural and regulatory procedures by 
NatWest that they are unhappy with. I acknowledge their concern but Im not a regulator 
supervising NatWests processes. My role is to investigate a complaint and come to a fair 
outcome which I hope Ive achieved in this case. So, for the reasons set out in my 
Provisional Decision and above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman