DRN-1643043
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society said they didnt meet the 
affordability criteria for a further advance they were interested in applying for in 2016 and 
then again in 2019.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs I feel Nationwide is being unfair. But it isnt my role to tell lenders 
they must agree a mortgage or further advance for particular consumers. Lenders are able 
to use their commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. 
My role is to ensure such judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my 
judgement for the banks.
The rules for secured lending and unsecured lending are very different, as are the regulatory 
responsibilities for each. Just because Nationwide may lend to a customer on an unsecured 
basis (with a higher monthly payment), doesnt mean it will also lend the same amount on a 
secured basis. Thats because the rules on mortgage lending are a lot stricter 
Unfortunately because the 2016 application happened so long ago Nationwide no longer 
holds the information to show what was discussed about why the application was declined. 
Mr and Mrs I have said they appealed it at the time, so the application would have been 
reviewed by an underwriter (not just a computer as Mr and Mrs I believe). Ive no reason to 
believe that application wasnt considered fairly.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs I just used the online affordability calculator which indicated they 
wouldnt be eligible for the lending they wanted. Nationwide has said that Mr and Mrs I can 
speak to an adviser so everything can be considered fully and that seems fair. The online 
calculator is a useful tool, but it cant consider all possible scenarios which is why Nationwide 
said Mr and Mrs I should speak to someone if they feel the online tool didnt truly take their 
full circumstances into account.
Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Is confusion that they couldnt borrow extra money, 
especially as they have a low loan to value ratio and own a separate unencumbered 
property, the value of the asset is only a part of the assessment Nationwide has to do. Whilst 
Mr and Mrs I have said they could sell the other property if they got into difficulties its not as 
simple as that as the property may not sell, or the tenant may refuse to leave. And in all the 
time that is happening Mr and Mrs I may be incurring arrears fees, legal costs and extra 
interest on their Nationwide mortgage as well as having their credit rating affected. 
Theres also the risk that Nationwide could agree to lend on that basis and Mr and Mrs I then 
either sell the other property, or use it to secure other lending meaning it wouldnt be 
available to sell if needed. A way to protect against that would be for a lender (here that 
would be Nationwide) to secure its lending on both properties, but thats not something 
Nationwide offers as part of its standard residential mortgages.
Nationwide has to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs I meet its secured lending affordability checks 
irrespective of the illiquid assets they may have available, and those secured lending 
affordability checks are very different from those used for unsecured lending.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs I to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman