DRN-3670578
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she received poor service and was racially abused by Lloyds
Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mrs G had an account with Lloyds. She was married in 2012 but kept her account with 
Lloyds in her maiden name  for business purposes. On 13 September 2020, she tried to 
make an online payment of £4,998 into a crypto-currency investment. The payment was 
declined pending fraud checks, and her account was blocked. She spoke to Lloyds fraud 
department who asked her to visit a branch with identification documents. On 15 
September 2020, she visited a branch of Lloyds to do that. The branch wasnt happy with 
the ID documents  which were her passport and marriage certificate (which was from an 
overseas country). They called Lloyds fraud department who spoke to Mrs G on her 
mobile phone while she was in the branch. The account was unblocked, but then, because 
of what happened, the fraud department then blocked the account again and asked the 
branch to invoke the banking protocol  which meant calling the police.
The police visited Mrs G at her home that evening. On 16 September 2020, she visited the 
branch again with her ID documents to unblock the account and make the payment. In the 
branch, she spoke to the fraud department again  who said she need to show photo ID (in 
her maiden name) before the account could be unblocked and the payment made. Mrs G 
couldnt provide this, and so the payment wasnt made.
Mrs G complained. She said the service provided by Lloyds was poor  she had been a 
customer for over 30 years. It was her money to use as she chose and she knew what she 
was doing. She felt she had been treated like a criminal and had been racially abused. She 
said she feels anxiety when she drives past the Lloyds branch or indeed any other bank.
She still has flashbacks about the events that occurred. She was also told she couldnt 
make a complaint over the phone but had to visit a branch to do that. She told us during our
investigation that shed lost money because of the delay in making the investment.
Lloyds said that Mrs G was correctly referred to the branch for checks of her ID. The 
branch correctly didnt accept her passport and marriage certificate for that purpose. The 
branch had wrongly told the fraud department that she no longer needed to make the 
payment, and that caused confusion. Lloyds apologised for that; and they agreed it took 
too long to remove the fraud block on her account; and she shouldve been able to register 
a complaint on the phone. They paid compensation of £150. They didnt agree that Mrs G 
had been racially abused.
Mrs G didnt agree, nor did she accept Lloyds compensation of £150. She brought her 
complaint to us. Our investigator said that the reason that the banking protocol was 
invoked was due to the miscommunication between the fraud department and the branch. 
He could see how upsetting it was for Mrs G to have the police involved. But he also 
accepted that Lloyds had procedures in place to prevent fraud. He felt that the overall 
service provided by Lloyds wasnt acceptable and said Lloyds should pay a further £150 
by way of compensation.
Lloyds accepted this outcome, but Mrs G didnt. She asked that an ombudsman look at her
complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Its an unfortunate fact that banking fraud is increasing, and all banks, including Lloyds, 
have sophisticated systems in place to protect both their customers and the bank. In this 
case, I think its clear that Lloyds followed their processes  but strictly following a 
procedure or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual 
circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats happened here  and in the round, I 
think that Mrs Gs overall experience during what happened leads me to a view that a 
higher award of compensation should be made.
When Mrs G tried to make the payment of £4,998 on 13 September 2020  I can see why 
Lloyds declined to make it, blocked her account and the fraud department asked her to 
visit a branch with identification documents. Lloyds have said that the beneficiary of the 
payment  a bitcoin investment  was giving rise to a high number of frauds. While its for 
Lloyds to determine their fraud processes and procedures, I can see why they did what 
they did.
On the call on 13 September 2020  Mrs G said she wanted to make a complaint on the 
phone. Lloyds fraud department told her she had to visit a branch to do that. This was an 
error by Lloyds  Mrs G shouldve been given guidance about how to make a complaint on 
the phone, and/or put through to the complaint department to do that.
Mrs G then visited a branch of Lloyds  on 15 September 2020. She showed her passport 
 which was in her married name - her account was in her maiden name. She showed her 
marriage certificate  which was from 2012 and was from an overseas country. The branch 
wasnt happy with the documents  as her appearance didnt look like her passport photo. 
And  they didnt accept the marriage certificate either. Ive seen Lloyds operational 
processes for using passports as ID  and they complied with those. They say that staff 
should check the photo appears to be that of the person in question. And  Lloyds couldnt 
be sure of that. So, to that extent, what Lloyds did was fair and reasonable.
I asked Lloyds for their processes regarding the acceptance of a marriage certificate  and 
they couldnt evidence anything. And so  its not clear whether Lloyds decision not to
accept the marriage certificate was correct or not.
While Mrs G was in the branch, the manager called the fraud department  to get guidance 
as to what to do. On the call (which Ive listened to)  the branch told the fraud department 
that they had seen Mrs Gs passport and marriage certificate  but the account was in Mrs 
Gs maiden name, while the passport was in her married name. But they also said on the 
call that they were happy it is her. They told the fraud department that shed shown her 
driving licence, passport and passed a chip & pin test. So  its not clear why this wasnt 
accepted.
But its what happened next  which caused the main problems that arose, and which are 
the crux of Mrs Gs complaint. The branch manager told the fraud department that Mrs G 
had decided not to make to payment after all  but this was an error by the manager. The 
fraud department then spoke to Mrs G on her mobile phone in the branch  and Mrs G 
said there was a misunderstanding and the payment was to be made. She asked for the 
payment to go ahead. I then heard the Lloyds fraud representative say, so that colleague 
has just lied to meso can you find out from her why she said thatI need that colleague 
now please. Mrs Gs mobile phone was then passed to the branch manager who apologised for the misunderstanding. The fraud department member of staff then 
immediately told the branch to invoke the banking protocol  i.e. call the police.
There are three things here that I found unreasonable. Firstly, the matter was being 
discussed on Mrs Gs mobile phone, in the branch  which was being passed between Mrs 
G, the fraud department and the branch manager. The branch manager has said this was 
because there wasnt a phone in the banking hall  and that may have been the case. But 
 the overall experience here for Mrs G wasnt good. Secondly, I found the tone and the 
words used by the fraud department to be unreasonable  and he shouldve asked for the 
phone to be passed back to the branch manager  for Lloyds staff to resolve  rather than 
putting Mrs G in the position of having to mediate between the branch and fraud 
department. And thirdly - while again, its for Lloyds to make its own judgement on whether 
to invoke the banking protocol  it seems to me that in this case, the fraud department 
executive was acting in an emotional way, rather than a rationale one. And  this then led 
to the police being called. Mrs G (quite reasonably) said she didnt want to wait for them to 
arrive at the branch (the branch said it may take 90 minutes) and they visited her at her 
home that evening. The police said there were no problems as far as they were aware.
Mrs G then visited the branch again on 16 September 2020. Again, she was put through 
to the fraud department on her mobile phone. After a long call (35 minutes), the fraud 
department told her they were happy with her answers about the transaction. But then 
advised her Lloyds needed to see some photo ID  showing her maiden name. The 
fraud department executive didnt know why her marriage certificate wasnt acceptable 
and said she would need to speak to the branch again about that. Mrs G said she didnt 
have photo ID with her maiden name on it. The account therefore remained blocked and 
the payment wasnt made. So  this was again unsatisfactory from Mrs Gs point of view.
As I have said  its for Lloyds to decide upon their security and fraud checks, and 
whether to invoke the banking protocol. But  Mrs Gs overall experience here wasnt 
reasonable:
there was a three-way conversation between Mrs G, the branch and fraud 
department  on Mrs Gs mobile phone and in the branch  this was confusing 
and embarrassing for Mrs G. And it wasnt for Mrs G to be asked to resolve a 
miscommunication between the branch manager and Lloyds fraud department;
the decision to invoke the banking protocol looked to have been taken 
irrationally - because of the fraud departments frustration with the branchs 
error. This meant that Mrs G was visited at her home, in the evening, by the 
police;
it isnt clear why the marriage certificate wasnt accepted part of Mrs Gs ID;
I can see that Mrs G spent several hours on the phone and two visits to the branch 
to try to sort things out;
 Mrs G shouldve been able to make a complaint on the phone, rather than being told 
to do that at the branch.
Mrs G has said that her treatment amounted to racial abuse. She says that her husband  
as a white male - wasnt subjected to the same checks by his bank. I cant comment on his 
situation. But Ive looked through all of Lloyds notes  and I found no reference to Mrs Gs 
race. It also wasnt mentioned in the calls between the branch and the fraud department. I 
also noted that in Lloyds operational guidance for invoking the banking protocol, it says 
this should be followed for any customer. In other words  Lloyds processes say that all customers were to be treated the same way. But that doesnt mean that Mrs G was treated 
reasonably in the circumstances of her complaint.
Mrs G says she feels Lloyds has discriminated against her given the problems she 
experienced. Given what happened, I can see why she may have genuinely felt she had 
been racially profiled by Lloyds. And thats likely to have exacerbated the distress and 
upset she felt. But - having looked at all the evidence I dont think Lloyds did so. I hope that 
it helps Mrs G to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into her 
concerns.
Mrs G has also said to us that she lost money as her investment couldnt be made. Given 
the circumstances here, the investment was made two or three days later than she 
intended. She hasnt brought forward any precise figures. And  given that this is a 
balanced decision, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds to reimburse 
any losses.
Turning to the matter of compensation. As Ive set out, I think the overall effect of what 
happened to Mrs G warrants an increased payment of compensation. Our service has set 
down some criteria  which say an award of up to around £750 might be fair where the 
impact of what happened has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or 
significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. And for 
me, I think that Mrs Gs experience falls into that category  as I think the police were 
unnecessarily called and then went to Mrs Gs house  when all she had done was to go to 
a branch to show her ID to invest some money. The only concern that Lloyds had was that 
her passport photo was different due to the passage of time that had passed. And  from 
what I heard on the calls, she was confident in answering the questions asked, and knew 
what she was investing in. And so - I think a payment of £750 is reasonable here. Lloyds 
have paid £150 already  so a further £600 should be paid.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Both Lloyds and Mrs G agreed with the provisional decision.
(continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Lloyds and Mrs G agreed with the provisional decision, I wont be departing from 
when deciding on my final decision.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Pay compensation of £600 for distress and inconvenience  in addition to the £150 
already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman