DRN-3741824
The complaint
This complaint is about problems Mr R and Ms R say they experienced when redeeming 
their mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr R and Ms R held a mortgage along with a mortgage current account reserve (overdraft) 
which ran alongside it. Their agreement reached the end of its term in February 2021. 
Prior to this, Mr R and Ms R say their online account showed they had a mortgage term 
reduction of one month. So, in September 2020, Mr R had a webchat with Barclays where 
he discussed the redemption of the mortgage. And, from this, Mr R understood they would 
not have to make the last months contractual monthly payment (CMP). 
In February 2021, Mr R and Ms R paid off the sum they thought remained on their mortgage. 
But within a few days, they received a letter from Barclays confirming that there was an 
outstanding amount and the account could not close until they made the final payment. 
Mr R and Ms R complained that they had repaid the mortgage in full and there should not be 
any amount outstanding because they had a mortgage term reduction and that this had 
previously been agreed in the webchat. In fact, Mr R and Ms R feel Barclays owe them one 
months payment as the direct debit was still taken in February 2021. Mr R and Ms R say 
they have been receiving threatening letters and the situation has been very stressful.
Barclays looked into Mr R and Ms R s concerns and explained they still owed an amount on 
their mortgage but offered £150 in compensation for any confusion caused. 
Our investigator looked into Mr R and Ms Rs concerns, but they didnt think Barclays 
needed to do anything more to resolve the complaint. As Mr R and Ms R disagreed, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr R and Ms Rs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
Id like to start by acknowledging that Mr R and Ms R have raised some new complaint 
points since bringing their complaint to this service. But as the new complaint points didnt 
form part of their original complaint to Barclays, I cant comment on those concerns in this 
decision. I say this because Barclays hasnt had the opportunity to consider those points first 
and as an informal and impartial service  it wouldnt be right for me to reach a finding before 
the business has had an opportunity to look into those concerns itself. 
So, Ive focused on the main complaint point Mr R and Ms R asked us to investigate, which 
is why Barclays says theres an outstanding sum that needs to be paid before they can fully 
redeem their mortgage.
Looking at what was discussed in the webchat Mr R had in September 2020, I can see he 
said:
My mortgage account is showing a one-month term reduction. Does this mean that the final 
direct debit payment will be in January 2021 and the remaining offset balance to be paid by 
the February end of term date? 
The Barclays representative agreed, and Mr R seems to have placed great weight on his 
interpretation of this. 
Mr R has explained that he thought this meant he wouldnt owe his CMP at all in February 
2021. But based on the dialogue, I think its possible the representative interpreted the 
discussion differently. For example, its possible the representative meant that the final figure 
owed in February could be paid in one lump sum rather than part by direct debit  which is 
how the redemption statement produced in January 2021 presents the outstanding amount 
due  it shows the last direct debt taken on January 2021 and then shows the entire 
remaining balance of the mortgage that would need to be repaid. 
Mr R went on to say he was going to save £860 and its possible this would have prompted 
the representative to clarify what was meant, but Mr R ended the chat before he received a 
response, so the representative didnt have an opportunity to correct any misunderstanding. 
I think Mr R would have realised his interpretation of the figures didnt add up when he 
received the redemption statement in January 2021. The statement carried over the balance 
from the previous annual statement, listed each of the payments Mr R and Ms R had made 
since, showed some added interest, and then the final redemption balance. This made it 
clear a greater amount was outstanding at this time. And I think it would have been 
reasonable to expect Mr R and Ms R to place more weight on what was said in the 
redemption statement than in the brief webchat. 
So, its clear there was some confusion at this point, but the redemption statement confirmed 
exactly how much Mr R and Ms R would need to pay to settle and close their account at that 
moment in time. The figures included their outstanding overdraft balance of £90,000, as well 
as the outstanding mortgage balance which was £1,309.87. I would have expected this to 
prompt Mr R and Ms R to speak to Barclays again. Instead Mr R and Ms R proceeded to 
settle the overdraft account only. Leaving their mortgage account in arrears of £362.62  
after Februarys direct debit had been taken. 
Barclays promptly sent a letter dated 18 February 2021 to inform Mr R and Ms R there was 
an outstanding balance on the mortgage. Mr R called Barclays and it was confirmed that the 
outstanding sum was due. Mr R felt that as his payments have been made by direct debit 
and have been adjusted at times  there shouldnt be any sum outstanding and if there was, 
this should have been communicated sooner. The call handler tried to explain that while 
Mr R and Ms R havent missed any payments or received any charges  the outstanding 
sum is still due, although he couldnt immediately see how it had accrued. He tried to explain 
that it was most likely interest.I agree  the outstanding sum does relate to interest. Mr R and Ms Rs interest rate varied 
and would accrue on their balance every month. This is to be expected with the type of 
mortgage they held  it was not a fixed rate of interest where the CMPs are calculated 
upfront and wont change for the life of the agreement, so long as theyre paid on time. 
Instead, Mr R and Ms Rs CMPs were reviewed at every annual statement and adjusted.
I understand Mr R and Ms R still do not agree there should be an outstanding sum, but I 
cant see anything obviously wrong with the figures Barclays has quoted. On every annual 
statement Mr R and Ms R were informed of the interest that had accrued over the year  the 
most recent statement in October 2020 showed £1,228.80 interest had been added to their 
balance. And each year Mr R and Ms Rs CMPs would adjust to reflect the additional interest 
as it did in October 2020 when the CMP went up. 
So, the outstanding amount Mr R and Ms R owe is the interest theyve accrued since their 
last annual statement which was issued around four months prior to the end of their 
mortgage agreement. The redemption statement in January 2021, showed that after three 
months, the interest was £291.03. So, by February 2021, it had been around four months 
since the last annual statement and I would expect the interest to be around £362.62, which 
is the amount theyve been asked to pay. 
As Mr R and Ms R had reached the end of the term, rather than being able to build the 
interest into future CMPs, Barclays would need them to repay it as a lump sum to redeem 
the mortgage. And while I appreciate Mr R and Ms R think they had overpaid by precisely 
one months CMP and that their final payment wasnt due  I find this unlikely, while they 
may have overpaid at some point, it seems unlikely this would be precisely the amount of 
their current CMP. I also think its more likely than not any overpayments would have been 
reviewed as part of the following annual statement, in the same way the interest was, rather 
than saved to the end of the term. And I cant see that Mr R and Ms R have made any 
overpayments since their last annual statement.
This is my understanding of what has happened, but if Mr R and Ms R still have concerns 
about whether the outstanding amount is correct, they may wish to seek independent advice 
to have this reviewed by an appropriate third party. I say this because its not our role, at this 
service, to provide an in-depth analysis of a consumers mortgage account.
Barclays has accepted that it may have been partly responsible for the confusion caused 
and its offered a sum of compensation to say sorry for this. Ive thought about this carefully 
and I think the amount Barclays has offered if fair. I say this because Mr R and Ms R were 
given the correct information in their redemption statement but chose to rely on the 
information they received in a brief webchat instead. And I think the meaning of what was 
said in the webchat could be interpreted differently.
Otherwise, Mr R and Ms R have been given consistent information about how much they 
owe and while Barclays could have explained why there was an outstanding balance more 
clearly  ultimately, Mr R and Ms R do owe the sum outstanding and they will need to pay it 
if they want to close their mortgage account. 
It is reasonable for Barclays to have been sending letters about the outstanding amount as it 
has a right to chase the sum owed to it, especially since Mr R and Ms Rs mortgage matured 
several months ago and Mr R and Ms R have made no attempt to clear the outstanding 
balance. So, I havent found any reason to increase the compensation offered by Barclays. If 
Mr R and Mrs R now wish to accept the offer  they should let Barclays know.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr R and Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman