DRN-3818851
The complaint
Miss R has complained about her car insurer Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
because it agreed with a third-party insurer that she was at fault for an accident, which she 
feels has left her in a disadvantaged position.
What happened
Miss R was involved in a collision in a car-park, where she was coming out of a parking 
space. The other drivers insurer felt she was at fault and Advantage agreed. On Miss Rs 
behalf Advantage accepted that she was 100% at fault for the accident. Miss R was 
unhappy, she told Advantage that the police were on her side and felt the other driver had 
been speeding. Miss R said she could have got at least a 50% finding of fault against the 
other party, if not 100%, if Advantage had completed a more thorough investigation. Either of 
which, Miss R said, would have meant she could have received some payment for her 
damaged car and her injuries  100% against her, given her policy was for third-party 
damages only, meant she couldnt claim anything.  
Advantage felt it had made the correct liability decision. It noted Miss Rs concerns about the 
speed the other driver was travelling but felt that couldnt be proven. And it didnt think 
obtaining CCTV footage would assist either  as that wouldnt answer the issue of speed 
and would otherwise just show Miss R pulling out of the space and into the other car (which 
wasnt in dispute). Miss R complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that Advantage had acted fairly and reasonably in coming to the 
decision it had in respect of liability. But, noting that Advantages acceptance of liability had 
not been made on a without prejudice basis, she told Advantage it should pay Miss R £500. 
She explained that accepting liability in the way that it had meant any opportunity Miss R 
may have had to challenge the liability decision had been taken away from her. So our 
investigator felt it was fair that Miss R was compensated for upset caused by that loss. 
Advantage disagreed. It said it would only be fair to compensate Miss R if shed have had a 
reasonable prospect for succeeding in any action against the other driver. Which Advantage 
didnt think shed had. Advantage maintained that its liability decision had been fair and 
reasonable, emphasising that it was supported by case law. The complaint was passed for 
an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I also think that Advantage should pay Miss R some compensation  I think 
it has fettered her opportunity to take her own action against the third-party driver. Whether 
she could have been successful or not in achieving any better outcome is not clear. But the 
point here is that Miss R believes her chances were good, and she had some evidence she 
thought was worthy of consideration by a court  but none of that can now be tested. And 
that is because of Advantages actions in not taking a very simple step to protect its 
policyholders rights by making it liability acceptance on a without prejudice basis.  
Accepting liability on a without prejudice basis is important because that allows the position 
on liability to be changed later on. I understand that Advantage doesnt feel that here it, or 
any insurer, would ever have been likely to change its mind on the liability position, and Ill 
look at that in a minute. But Miss R as a policyholder is, or should be, free to take her own 
action if she wants to and that should not be compromised by the policy which allows 
Advantage to settle things as it sees fit. The industry generally deals with that, and this 
service sees it as good industry practice to do so, by ensuring that decisions are made and 
communicated on a without prejudice basis. Advantage did not do that here and Miss R has 
lost her opportunity as a result. 
However, I think it is far from clear that Miss R could have been successful in any action she 
might have taken, in achieving any better outcome. So whilst I think she deserves 
compensation for the upset caused to her by her loss of opportunity, I cant fairly make 
Advantage compensate her for the damage to her car or the injuries she suffered, which she 
believes shed have received some settlement for if the fault for the accident hadnt been 
accepted as being entirely hers. I understand what Miss R believes happened, and I dont 
doubt her conviction in this respect. But I bear in mind that a court would hear likely equally 
compelling testimony from the third-party who also likely believes, just as fervently, that they 
were not at fault. The court would then have to bear in mind things like usual road practices 
and case law. All of which Advantage has explained to Miss R do not go in her favour. 
I know Miss R had heard views from the police about the accident  but she couldnt rely on 
those at court  not unless she had them in writing or the officer was prepared to appear on 
her behalf. Even then the court would have to weight that against the other available 
evidence. Im not saying that Miss R would not have been successful, Im merely trying to 
set this out, from an impartial perspective, to help explain to Miss R why it is far from clear 
that it is most likely that she would have been. But, successful or not, Miss R would at least, 
had she been able to challenge the liability decision, have felt heard. With Advantage acting 
as it did, that opportunity was lost, which is why I think compensation is due.
Having explained, as I have above, that it is far from clear that Miss R could have achieved a 
better outcome here, I come back to the decision Advantage made. Regarding the decision 
itself, I dont think Advantage did anything wrong. Advantage took the view that it could not 
successfully challenge the allegation of fault  and to try to do so to any degree would likely 
have resulted in costs. I bear in mind that Advantage took case law into account and that it 
didnt think the allegations of speed could be proven. Its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
apply its skill and knowledge of how courts view liability for accidents when deciding whether 
or not and to what degree they accept fault on behalf of their policyholder. I think that, on this 
occasion, Advantages decision, which Im satisfied was made taking all relevant aspects 
into account, was made fairly and reasonably.  
 
Putting things right
I require Advantage to pay Miss R £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman