DRN-3742601
The complaint
Ms M complains Nationwide Building Society unfairly registered a default with Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Ms M had a credit card with Nationwide which had a promotional interest free period. When 
the promotion ended, she asked Nationwide if they could extend the interest free period or 
reduce the interest rate. She says Nationwide ended up passing the debt to a debt collection 
agency and defaulted the account. Ms M says a third party bank had done something similar 
to Nationwide but they wrote to her to say the account was wrongly defaulted, so Ms M 
complained to Nationwide that they also should not have defaulted the account. 
Nationwide did not uphold Ms Ms complaint. They said they need to ensure they provide 
accurate and up to date information to the CRAs and that a true reflection would have been 
reported at the end of every month, so they didnt agree they made an error. Ms M brought 
her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ms complaint. He said by looking at her credit card 
statements, she started struggling making her payments to her account after her October 
2018 statement as the payment due on 9 November was £104.03, but Ms M paid £20 before 
the payment due date and arrears showed on her next statement. He said Ms Ms June 
2019 statement showed arrears of £467.74 and it was confirmed her credit facility has been 
withdrawn and it referred her to a separate letter they sent. He said given that Ms M had 
been behind with payments for several months and had built up a sizeable amount of 
arrears, Nationwide were right to default the account.
Ms M asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said she did not stop paying, but she could not pay the high amount of 
interest being charged once the interest free promotional period had ended. She said she 
was prepared to keep making repayments until the debt was settled. She also referenced a 
separate decision that our service has made where the complaint was upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ms M has said about a separate complaint that our service has upheld. 
But here, I am only able to focus on the individual merits of the complaint she has brought to 
us. A separate complaint may be different to Ms Ms circumstances and that is why I need to 
consider if Nationwide acted as we would expect them to act here. 
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. Ms M appears to have had trouble making her repayments around 
October/November 2018. Ive read everything that she has said about her financial difficulty 
and the reasons for this during this timeframe, so Im aware of her circumstances here. 
I can see from Nationwides system notes that they showed Ms M forbearance by allowing 
her to make reduced payments for what seems to be a temporary six month period. But 
when this time elapsed it appeared Ms Ms situation hadnt improved, and she was unable to 
return to her contractual minimum repayment or clear the arrears that had accrued. During 
the time when she was making reduced repayments, it appears Nationwide showed her 
further forbearance by not charging her interest that they were entitled to charge her based 
on her credit agreement during this period. I say this as her November, December 2018 and 
January 2019 statements dont show any interest added to the account as opposed to her 
October 2018 statement (sent prior to her making reduced payments), which does show 
interest being added to her account. 
So as Ms M had built up arrears over more than six months and she wasnt in a position to 
clear the arrears or return to her contractual monthly minimum payment, then Im satisfied 
that Nationwide were fair to continue the collections process which ultimately resulted in a 
default being registered with the CRAs. A default would ensure that no further interest or 
charges would be added to the account, which would enable Ms M to focus on repaying the 
outstanding balance without it increasing. 
Ive considered what Ms M has said about the high interest that she had to pay on the 
account. But the interest rate would have been communicated to her as part of her credit 
agreement. It will have also been detailed on her statements and I can see the interest rate 
on the statements Nationwide have provided our service. So Im not persuaded that 
Nationwide have done anything wrong by charging her interest that she would have agreed 
to once the promotional interest rate had ended.
Ive also considered the letter that Ms M has provided us from a third party company, stating 
they incorrectly registered a default. It appears that the third party provider said the reason 
for the default being registered incorrectly is because they didnt realise that she had made 
the required payment after they had issued a default notice. So I cant agree that the same 
circumstances apply here as Nationwides system notes show a default notice was sent on 
16 May 2019, however, her 28 June 2019 credit card statement shows she did not clear the 
arrears.
It's clear to me what a difficult time Ms M has been through and is going through here. She 
was clearly trying to be proactive in dealing with her finances at a very tough time. Ms M had 
been making repayments to the account and this should be reflected on her credit file.
In addition, Ms M may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to 
explain what happened here. This is a short explanatory note that she can add to an entry 
on her credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So anyone who searches her credit 
report, such as a credit card provider, would see the notice of correction and take the notice 
into account if they viewed her credit file. Prospective lenders will each consider a notice like 
this differently and it isn't a guarantee that they will put the underlying payment information to 
one side. But given how strongly Ms M feels here - it is an option that is open to her. She 
would need to contact the CRAs to do this. But it follows, for the reasons Ive previously 
given, that I wont be asking Nationwide to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman