DRN-4225882
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison), lent
to her without obtaining the full and correct information from her and so approved the loan
when she was not able to afford it.
What happened
I set out here the two provisional decisions I have issued so far in relation to this complaint  
the first on 28 July 2023 and the second on 22 August 2023. These give all the details plus 
my outcome. They are in smaller type to differentiate it from my final decision. 
The duplicated first provisional decision dated 28 July 2023
Mrs M applied for a £5,000 loan and she says it was through a credit reference agency link.
It was approved on 5 June 2021 and the terms were for £5,000 over 24 months at £298.70
each month. The total debt including the interest was due to have been £7,168.80.
Mrs M started to fall behind in her repayments relatively soon after the loan was approved.
Mrs M was receiving arrears letters in December 2021 and in January 2022 she received a
Notice of Default. Soon after that the debt balance was sold to third party collection agents in
April 2022. It remains outstanding.
Mrs M submitted to Madison a Subject Access Request (SAR) on 10 February 2023 and
complained to Madison on 14 February 2023. I have seen the SAR documents from Mrs M
and I have seen Mrs Ms original complaint email. The final response letter from Madison dated
4 April 2023 explained all it had done before lending to her and said that it did not uphold her
complaint.
Not content, Mrs M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and in her
complaint form she has said she was pre-approved for the loan and at the time her bank
statements showed she was up to her limit on her overdraft and numerous payments had
been returned. So, she says that the checks done before the loan was approved were too
brief and insufficient.
In her complaint form Mrs M mentions that she had asked Madison for a payment holiday in
the past but was not offered any solution. I come back to this part in the main part of the
decision.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought as follows:
I think the lender shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of your
financial situation. This couldve included performing a credit search, or asking you
for more information at the time of lending  for example, payslips, bills, or bank
statements that showed your income and expenditure.
118 118 Money has shown me that it carried out a detail credit search before lending
to you. Ive considered what it learnt from this information  and I dont think there
was anything in the information it gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to you.
Your credit report showed you had a total debt balance of £1,461 and you were
managing your outstanding credit well.
So, our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs M responded to say that credit history records are not everything. And that her credit
record or her credit score does not show Madison affordability. Mrs M referred to one of the
SAR records shed sent us in which the application showed that all Madison had was her
income of £1,323 a month and no outgoings at all.
Plus, Mrs M raised the lack of help point again. She has told us:
I have asked few times to get a payment holiday when I was struggling and they only
provide 1 month of payment holiday and did not do anything to support my situation.
Please find the attached image of the mail conversation.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I have decided to issue a provisional
decision and I give my reasons why in the decision that follows.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, 
and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown
that Mrs M wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M and
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation. The rules and 
regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
of Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs M.
In practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan
wouldnt cause Mrs M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g.
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
- the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs M has had the benefit of the documents shed received from the SAR,
most of which are the same as the ones Madison relies on to defend the complaint.
I have seen that Mrs Ms application had only her income which was £1,323 and that there
was nothing else on there, apart from her personal details, her bank details, that she had
said she was employed full time and was renting (unfurnished). There were no figures for
any of her outgoings.
However, I note that in its FRL, Madison made it clear that it did not rely solely on the
information Mrs M would have provided at the application stage. I know that Mrs M says she
did not actually apply as such but Madison received information about her and so whether
that was information taken from her credit reference agency details or whether it was a form
shed completed, it had the information it used. Madison said:
the income and expenditure you provide will be used as a starting point, but we
also use reasonable 'average figures'. In addition to this, we also use credit
expenditure amounts from your credit file
One concern of mine is that Ive no evidence of Madisons calculations on what it considered
Mrs Ms expenditure to be.
Another concern of mine that Ive seen from a note dated 26 January 2022 in the SAR
records that Mrs M had told Madison she was self-employed and having business trouble.
Hence her difficulty making the repayments of just under £300 each month. 
If Mrs M was self-employed at the time of the loan approval in June 2021 then I do not consider that
Madison knew all the details it ought to have known about Mrs Ms income. And therefore,
her ability going forward to continue to make 24 months worth of repayments. 
Although there were no figures for Mrs Ms expenditure, the credit search Madison did,
showed that her debt was low at £1,461 overall and she had no adverse entries on her credit
file.
But this was not a small loan  it was for £5,000 plus interest over 24 months and so I do
consider that Madison ought to have done more than simply accept a referral document
through a credit reference agency and then take the income of £1,323 a month without
checking it. Ive no evidence of any income verification and if Mrs M was self-employed Id
have expected it to want to know her drawings for a period leading up to June 2021. And Ive
no evidence of the expenditure figures it did use in its creditworthiness assessment as
required by the FCA.
Our adjudicator also considered that Madison ought to have done more but Mrs M has not
sent in her details relating to her expenditure at the time or any copies of other documents
such as, for instance, her bank account statements. Mrs M had sent in the SAR records.
I do think Madison ought to have looked at more about Mrs Ms financial situation before
approving the £5,000 loan, and yet Ive no evidence from Mrs M to show me what it was
Madison would have discovered in June 2021 if it had carried out additional checks.
So, on current evidence I cannot decide that Mrs Ms loan was approved by Madison
irresponsibly. By issuing a provisional decision I give time to Madison to send further
evidence if it wishes and I give Mrs M time to send to us details of her financial situation in
May and June 2021 being the lead period to the June 2021 application.
On current evidence I plan not to uphold the complaint  this was the first provisional decision 
outcome. The part of Mrs Ms complaint about lack of help
I have seen that in her complaint form (submitted to us in March 2023) and in her response
to the adjudicators view Mrs M has said that she is concerned about the lack of help she
received when she was asking for it when she was in arrears. These complaint elements
were not in Mrs Ms original complaint email to Madison and not covered in its FRL to Mrs M.
I plan to arrange for a separate complaint file to be commenced and for Madison to respond
to those complaint points. I dont have enough currently to be able to make an informed and
full decision on that part of Mrs Ms concerns about Madisons approach to her arrears and
her debt.
What I provisionally decided for the second time  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Madison has not responded to the first provisional decision.
Mrs M has sent to us bank account statements for two accounts. One was a new account
and had about £30 in it. The other was the account which showed transactions in and out
relating to the work she did to earn money.
Mrs M sent to us her Self-Assessment calculations for the Tax Year 2019-20 and the
Tax Year 2020  21. For the Tax Year 2019-20 Mrs Ms total income from all employments
including her business: £16,423. For the Tax Year 2020-21, which is more relevant as its
the closest period up to the time Mrs M applied for the Madison loan, her income received
was: £10,009.
For the period from the end of the Tax Year 2021 to 4 June 2021 was a matter of two
months. I doubt that her income situation altered much. The bank account statements do not
reveal that Mrs Ms income altered much. £10,009 in a year translates into about £834 a
month.
This loan was scheduled to be repaid by instalments of just under £300 each month for five
years. During the loan application process, I can see that Madison did do a credit search and
Mrs M had very little in overall debt on that record - £1,461. I have accounted for this in my
deliberations.
But I have expressed concern about the limited information Madison knew about Mrs Ms
income and her expenditure. The lack of information about her expenditure would be enough
of a concern but the lack of information about her income for a loan a big as this - £5,000
over five years  is a concern.
I think that a full financial review would have led Madison to have realised that Mrs M was
struggling to get a business off the ground, was self-employed and was receiving very little
income from it.
Even without the expenditure information, I can see that Mrs M had committed to repay 36%
of her likely drawings each month to repay the loan. Madison has explained that as well as
reviewing a credit search, it explained in its FRL:
 we do not solely rely on the details you provide to us and therefore, the income
and expenditure you provide will be used as a starting point, but we also use
reasonable 'average figures'.
Mrs M had said she was renting her accommodation. So even allowing £500 for rent plus
bills  which I do not think is an unrealistic figure - then the loan was likely unaffordable.I consider that for the length and the size of the loan I do not consider that Madison carried
out proportionate checks and if it had carried out a full financial review it would have
appreciated her situation. I plan to uphold the complaint about the irresponsible lending. 
A new complaint to cover the second issue Mrs M raised has been set up so I say no more
about that part.
This is the end of the two duplicated provisional decisions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having issued two provisional decisions, the second after new information was sent to us by 
Mrs M, Madison has sent to us documentation but no submissions. I have reviewed it all but 
each of the documents we had already received before I issued my first provisional decision. 
So, I do not consider that Madison has sent anything new to me such that I am persuaded to 
alter my second provisional decision outcome.
Mrs M has not responded. In the absence of anything further since issuing my second 
provisional decision I have decided its fair and reasonable to issue the decision to resolve 
the complaint. 
For the reasons given I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  
Putting things right
I uphold the complaint and I direct that Madison does as I have set out below. Madison is 
entitled to offset the refund sums due to Mrs M against the debt that she owes to it. The 
default needs to be removed from her credit file. 
The statement of account suggests that Madison may have sold the debt or passed it to a 
debt collector. It needs to bring that debt back in-house and after doing that (if it can) then 
Madison needs to do as I have listed below. 
If Madison cannot bring the debt back in-house it must liaise with the current debt owner to 
ensure that no additional third party fees or charges have been added to that debt and that 
the end result with Mrs M is the same as I have outlined here: 
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
treat any payments made by Mrs M as payments towards the capital amount,
if Mrs M has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded
to with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Madison should come to a reasonable
repayment plan with Mrs M.
remove any adverse payment information about the loans from Mrs Ms credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct that Madison CF UK Limited, 
trading as 118 118 Money, does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman