DRN-2772729
The complaint
  Mr B complains about three loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
Loans 2 Go, which he says were unaffordable.
What happened
  Loans 2 Go provided Mr B with three loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Repaid Amount Instalments
1 19/04/2019 12/01/2020 250.00 18
2 11/01/2020 04/07/2020 364.36 18
3 04/07/2020 outstanding 727.69 18
Mr B says through his representatives, that he feels Loans 2 Go failed to carry out effective 
affordability assessments and that if it had done what it was supposed to, it wouldnt have 
lent to him. He feels that Loans 2 Go have irresponsibly lent the money to him on each 
occasion.
In its final response letter Loans 2 Go said that when it agreed loan 1, Mr B had declared his 
income as £1500 but it says it verified this and it dropped that amount to £1300.81. Loans 2 
Go said that Mr B declared his expenditure to be £315 but it calculated his expenditure to 
total £1093.58 following its review of Mr Bs credit report. It says it also deducted 10% of his 
income as a buffer for any fluctuations in Mr Bs monthly income, and that was included in its 
calculated figure.
After the monthly loan payment of £57.14, Loans 2 Go concluded that Mr B had enough 
disposable income to afford the contractual repayments. Mr B declared similar amounts for 
loans 2 and 3 also and Loans 2 Go had worked out the similar disposable income following 
its adjustments. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She concluded 
that Loans 2 Go should have had some concerns with regards to the adjustments it made to 
Mr Bs declared income and expenditure. She went on to say that she didnt feel it made fair 
lending decisions when it agreed to lend any of the 3 loans. So, she upheld Mr Bs 
complaint.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks 
and fair lending decisions when it agreed to lend on each occasion.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When Loans 2 Go lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Bs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
Loans 2 Go had to consider both the risk to it that Mr B wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr B of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, Loans 2 Go had to consider Mr Bs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Bs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did Loans 2 Go then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that on each occasion, Loans 2 Go asked Mr B about his income and expenditure. 
It has told our service that it adjusted Mr Bs income and expenditure based on an online verification tool for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for 
expenditure. 
For loan 1, It reduced Mr Bs declared income from £1500 a month to £1300.81 after 
verifying this. It then increased what Mr B says his expenditure was of £315, to £1093.58, 
based on checks it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for 
any fluctuations in spend for Mr B. It carried out the same checks when it agreed to loans 2 
and 3. Again it adjusted Mr Bs income and expenditure by similar amounts. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Bs 
disposable income on each time it agreed to lend to him. I dont think its checks were 
proportionate for any of the three loans because there was a discrepancy between what Mr 
B said about his income and expenditure and what it says it could see through its checks 
each time. I dont think Loans 2 Go should have accepted the loans knowing or having 
reason to suspect Mr B wasnt being truthful about his income or expenditure in each case. 
In all three instances the discrepancy between what Mr B said his expenditure was and what 
Loans 2 Go calculated it was, was quite wide. So, I think Loans 2 Go should either have 
carried out further checks to see if there were good reasons for this, or its shouldnt have 
provided Mr B with any of the 3 loans. This leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take 
steps to verify on each occasion what Mr Bs actual monthly expenditure was. 
As I cant see that this Loans 2 Go did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mr B with his loans were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr 
B would need to meet his loan repayments over 18 months.
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks Loans 2 Go carried out werent proportionate and that they 
needed to do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks, because I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision on each 
occasion it lent to Mr B anyway, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search Loans 2 Go carried out for each 
loan, I can see that it shows Mr B was having problems managing his finances. 
For loan 1, the search showed that Mr B had around £4500 of debt to repay and this was all 
from revolving credit such as a credit card and overdraft or from short term lending. He was 
up towards his credit limit for the revolving credit he took out. He also was in an arrangement 
to pay on two loans and was a payment in arrears on another.   
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Mr B wasnt managing to 
repay his existing debt, in particular with two loans having an arrangement to pay marked on 
the search and one where he was in arrears. I think it was unlikely that Mr B could repay 
further credit sustainably without experiencing adverse consequences. 
And, as our adjudicator also described in her view, I dont think his situation improved when 
Loans 2 Go agreed to lend loans 2 and 3 either. When he applied for loan 2, his credit 
search showed that his total debt to repay had increased and he was still in arrears for the 
same loan that appeared in the credit search for loan 1, several months previous to this 
application. He was now also up to his credit limit for two credit cards and was over his credit limit on his overdraft. His finances hadnt improved when he applied for loan 3, with his debt 
levels remaining at a similar level to when he applied for loan 1. 
So, I conclude that on each of the three occasions, based on what Loans 2 Go had in front 
of it, it would have seen Mr B wouldnt have been able to make repayments in a sustainable 
way.  
As Mr B has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the loans that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for each loan. As Ive already mentioned Mr B has an amount left to repay on loan 
3. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of being given loans 1-3. 
The payments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr B was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Bs credit file because of loans 1-3;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman