DRN-2159815
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about National House-Building Councils proposals to rectify damage 
to their home under their Buildmark policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their Buildmark policy in June 2018, due to external and 
internal cracks, and issues with the doors and windows of their home.
A site inspection was arranged for September 2018 and NHBC produced an investigation 
report dated December 2018 which explained why it wasnt accepting the claim. It said 
shrinkage or movement between different types of materials is not covered by the policy 
and that although there was evidence of external cracks, there was no evidence that the 
structural integrity of the walls have been compromised. NHBC concluded that the cracks 
were cosmetic only and not indicative of a defect.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this and challenged NHBCs decision. NHBC agreed to 
take another look and accepted the claim based on the findings of its further investigation 
report dated March 2019. This said there was a lack of movement joints, which had 
contributed to the full height crack to the rendered end wall of the property and other smaller 
cracks elsewhere. So it agreed to settle the claim by paying Mr and Mrs C £13,348.03 based 
on the Schedule of Works the claims investigator had put together.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this offer as the remedial works only comprised cutting 
back the render, repairing the cracks, re-rendering the affected areas and masking any 
colour difference between the old and new render. They said this didnt include the 
installation of movement joints which had been identified as the defect in the construction of 
the property. Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the evidence and thought NHBCs proposal was fair, so didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our 
investigators opinion, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know Mr and Mrs C will be 
disappointed as this wasnt the answer they were hoping for, but Ill explain why Ive made 
this decision.
Mr and Mrs C made their claim under Section 3 of their Buildmark policy, which covers years 
3-10 following completion of a newly-built structure. The policy says NHBC will pay for the 
full cost of putting right any actual physical Damage caused by a Defect in any of the 
following parts of the house. 
Damage is defined in the policy as Physical damage to the Home caused by a Defect and 
Defect is defined as A breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder.
Im satisfied from the Investigation Report dated March 2019, which supersedes the report 
dated December 2018, that a defect as defined in the policy was identified. This is because 
NHBC accepts in the latter report that the cracking to the background blockwork itself is due 
to a lack of movement joint which is in breach of NHBCs Performance Standard Chapter 
6.1; D3. This says external cavity and solid walls must be designed to support and transfer 
loads to foundations safely and without undue movement, taking into account movement 
joints. It further states that Vertical movement joints should be provided at 6m spacing for 
concrete blockwork and in this case the gable wall was 9m long without any movement 
joints. So while the parties ultimately agree that there is a defect and the claim is valid under 
the policy, its the remedial action necessary to put right the defect thats in dispute here.
Mr and Mrs C had lived at the property since 2008, so made the claim towards the end of the 
tenth year after construction. This is relevant because NHBCs initial Engineering Claim 
Report refers to the homeowner being aware of the crack on the gable wall at the time of 
moving in, but says its more prominent now and that the homeowner wanted to check it 
out before the warranty expired.
I think the timing of the claim is important here. NHBC says the remedial action its 
recommended, of cutting back the render and repairing the cracks in the blockwork before 
re-rendering, would be adequate because, given the age of the property, further shrinkage 
cracking was unlikely to occur. I think NHBCs offer wouldve been different had Mr and 
Mrs C complained about the large external crack in the render earlier. And I think that offer 
would likely have involved addressing the lack of movement joints because this may then 
have prevented further movement.
However, the addition of movement joints isnt something NHBC has offered here, and its 
explained why. NHBC said its claims team had also offered Mr and Mrs C a Certificate of 
Repair for any completed works, which would cover them for six years from the date of 
completion of the remedial work. 
Ive thought carefully about NHBCs proposals and Ive also considered carefully everything 
Mr and Mrs C have said about why they think movement joints should now be installed. The 
main factor I need to determine here is whether NHBCs proposal would result in an effective 
and lasting repair. And from the evidence Ive seen, I think it will. 
The Consultants Report dated May 2019 which Mr and Mrs C have provided only shows 
what we already know, that theres an insured defect which needs to be put right. But the 
policy doesnt say the defect itself needs to be remedied  it says the damage caused by the 
defect will be rectified. And although the report says further deterioration will occur if these 
cracks were left in their current state Im not persuaded that this means movement joints 
need to be installed, because NHBCs offer of remedials work wouldnt result in the cracks 
being left in their current state  but rather being repaired at blockwork level.
Mr and Mrs C have also provided a Render Specialists Report dated March 2020, but while 
the report comments on the defect  the lack of movement joints  it doesnt say that the 
installation of movement joints is the only way forward. It suggests stitching of the main 
crack with helical steel bars, which is similar to the proposal put forward by NHBC (masonry 
reinforcement crack stitch repairs in the blockwork). Im satisfied from looking at all the 
relevant evidence that this course of action would strengthen and repair the structural issues 
with the property.Im also persuaded by NHBCs comments in respect of the reports provided by Mr and 
Mrs C. These include assurances that as long as good quality repairs are carried out 
(including masonry reinforcement) the wall should be able to accommodate any thermal 
movements without the need for a movement joint. And NHBC has confirmed that its advice 
wouldve been different at construction stage because, due to the passage of time, the 
majority of the movement has now taken place and its unlikely that further movement would 
occur following good quality repairs. 
Ive found NHBCs comments compelling because theyre more detailed and comprehensive 
than the reports provided by Mr and Mrs C, which dont confirm the need for a movement 
joint at this stage. The repairs havent yet taken place, so NHBCs offer of a six-year 
guarantee in relation to the remedial work should offer Mr and Mrs C some reassurance that 
the repairs will be effective. If they arent, Mr and Mrs C will be able to raise this with NHBC 
at a later stage and NHBC will have to put things right.
Im also satisfied NHBC plans to address any colour difference in the render, as its agreed 
to use a type of paint that will mask any differences in colour. I want to reassure Mr and 
Mrs C that Ive read all their submissions and considered them in detail, but in light of my 
decision, Im afraid I also wont be requiring NHBC to pay for Mr and Mrs Cs consultation 
costs for the same reasons our investigator has highlighted  as the policy doesnt cover 
these unless reasonably incurred and with NHBCs prior consent.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but Im satisfied NHBCs proposal is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case and so I wont be requiring it to change its 
current offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman