DRN-3263223
The complaint
Mr C says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says that he couldnt afford the loan repayments and he frequently fell behind with them. He 
says that LaH continued to offer him loans when it knew he was struggling. He thinks it 
shouldve made better checks and not lent to him.
 
What happened
This complaint is about 12 home collected loans LaH provided to Mr C between August 2013 
and November 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below. 
LoanDate 
TakenAmount InstalmentsDate 
Repaid
1 14/08/2013 £200 32 11/12/2013
2 11/12/2013 £375 41 11/06/2014
3 11/06/2014 £500 41 10/12/2014
4 10/12/2014 £625 41 15/07/2015
5 15/07/2015 £500 32 23/12/2015
6 23/12/2015 £625 42 05/10/2016
7 05/10/2016 £625 45 25/10/2017
8 25/10/2017 £625 45 05/12/2018
9 13/12/2017 £125 45 12/12/2018
10 12/12/2018 £625 45 06/11/2019
11 12/12/2018 £250 45 06/11/2019
12 06/11/2019 £1,250 46 outstanding 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Mr C was having problems 
managing his money at loans 4 and 5. And that by loan 6 the lending pattern itself looked to 
be harmful. 
LaH disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that Mr C didnt borrow excessive 
amounts and it didnt think the lending showed signs of being unsustainable. And Mr C didnt 
appear to have a large amount of other credit commitments. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mr C accepted our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont think there 
is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And I agree that they werent irresponsibly 
lent for the same reasons that the adjudicator said. I wont comment further given the lack of 
ongoing disagreement. 
And these loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr C had with LaH. So, they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
Mr C has essentially said that he was struggling to repay this lending, and he would typically 
fall behind on the repayments, and then take a new loan to cover these. And looking at what 
information Ive been provided about the lending, this does seem to be the case. Mr C falls 
behind with his payments for loan 3. And this continues going forwards. 
I appreciate the arears amounts arent large by loan 4, but I dont think that they have to be 
here. This is because Mr Cs only source of income was benefits. And I think its reasonable 
to say that this income was modest. And so, if he was having payment problems he would 
struggle to make up any shortfall. Added to this the loan amounts had increased by a 
significant amount over a relatively short time. And Mr C was using a new loan to pay off his 
arrears. So, having looked at everything, I agree that there were signs by loan 4 that Mr C was 
struggling to repay his loans sustainably. 
I havent looked in detail at loans 6 to 12 because I dont think that it is necessary to do so. 
Added to the above its now clear by loan 6 that Mr Cs indebtedness was unsustainable. I 
say this because:
Mr C had been indebted to LaH for over three years now. I think this is a long time to 
be using this type of credit, given what I know about Mr Cs circumstances. 
And as Ive said above, Mr C was usually using a new loan to pay the arrears on his 
previous lending. 
So at loan 6, it seems clear to me that it was more likely than not, that Mr C was 
having to borrow further when he couldnt properly repay these loans. And he was 
not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an 
ongoing need.
Mr C didnt make any real inroads to the amount he owed LaH for some time. Loan 
12 was taken out over six years after Mr Cs first. And it was for a larger amount. 
Mr C had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH over an 
extended period.
Given the above I think that Mr C also lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing 
from loan 6 onwards.  
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 12 and LaH should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr C from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Mr C loans 4 to 12.If LaH has sold the outstanding debts LaH should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LaH is not able to buy the debts back then LaH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr C having made 
overpayments then LaH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LaH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then LaH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C. 
E) LaH should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to 
loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing for loans 6 to 12 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Cs credit file. LaH does not have to remove loan 12 from Mr Cs credit file until it has  
been repaid, but LaH should still remove any adverse information recorded about this loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give Mr 
C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Cs complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman