DRN-4210796
The complaint
The estate of Mrs L complains that abrdn Client Management Limited arranged an annuity 
without a spouses pension in contradiction of Mrs Ls wishes.
What happened
The late Mrs L held a personal pension with Standard Life, subsequently abrdn. In 
September 2009 she met with a Standard Life adviser to discuss what annuity options she 
could purchase with her pension fund.
This meeting on 16 September 2009 was followed by a letter the next day documenting the 
advice provided, to take the maximum available tax-free cash and purchase an annuity with 
the remaining funds from Scottish Equitable. The annuity should have the maximum 
available guarantee attached and a 50% widows pension. The letter went on to quote an 
annual income of £11,305.20.
A revised illustration produced at this meeting on 16 September 2009 for an annuity 
purchase with Scottish Equitable with only a ten-year guarantee showed an income of 
£11,581.80.
The illustration included a detailed breakdown of your annuity section which noted the 
purchase price, retirement income, escalation and guarantee period with no spouses 
annuity option included. The business hasnt been able to provide any other illustration from 
this date.
Mrs L signed an application form for the annuity with Scottish Equitable on 23 September 
2009  this gave an illustration basis and reference matching the revised illustration 
mentioned above. Within section 1.2 of the application Mr Ls details had been input, this 
section requested a dependents details if a pension/annuity is to be provided upon the 
annuitants death. This section was crossed out and marked Not Applicable.
Standard Life forwarded the completed application, illustration and identity documents to 
Scottish Equitable on 1 October 2009 which was received on 5 October 2009.
On 14 October 2009 a second illustration for a Scottish Equitable annuity was produced on 
the same basis of the previous illustration but for the current fund value which gave a 
guaranteed annuity of £11,643.72.
On 16 October 2009 Scottish Equitable wrote to Mrs L with a welcome pack confirming the 
annuity that had been set up to pay £11,643.72 a year. The enclosed annuity schedule 
confirmed the policy details. The fund had been used to purchase the annuity on a non-
escalating basis, guaranteed for 10 years, payable monthly in advance.
When Mrs L sadly died in February 2020, Mr L became aware that there was no provision 
for a spouses pension included with the annuity, as the guarantee period had also expired 
no further payments were due from the policy. Mr L complained to the business that the 
annuity had not been set up correctly.
The business did not uphold Mr Ls complaint and as an agreement couldnt be reached the 
matter has been referred to this service for review.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that the 
evidence supported that the annuity was setup by Mrs L without a spouses pension and this 
was the choice made by Mrs L.
Mr L disagreed, in summary he believes the application form was altered after it was 
submitted by Mrs L  and that she had wished to have a spouses annuity attached to the 
pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings and broadly for the same reasons.
I appreciate Mr L will be unhappy with this, but I dont agree with his position that the 
application form was altered to reflect something Mrs L hadnt requested.
The evidence doesnt give a clear picture of how Mrs L went from wishing to have a 
spouses pension to having an annuity without one. In situations such as these, I need to 
decide on the balance of probabilities (using the evidence we do have), what likely 
happened. I appreciate Mr L strongly believes something untoward occurred that meant Mrs 
L had an annuity without a spouses pension. But I dont agree, I think its most likely that 
Mrs L simply chose not to include a spouses pension. Mrs L wouldve had different 
illustrations to look at on the different basiss and I think she chose one without the spouses 
pension  in turn receiving a higher annuity. I say this because there is no incentive or 
motive for the adviser (or the product provider) to alter the annuity against the wishes of Mrs 
L. They will still receive the same payment regardless. And secondly, Mrs L was given 
information confirming the basis of the annuity on more than one occasion  without a 
spouses pension  and she didnt look to correct this. This suggests it was in line with her 
choice.
Removing the spouses pension meant that the amount of annuity paid each year would 
increase and with a ten-year guarantee in place there was still protection for Mr L in place if 
Mrs L was to pass away within that period. 
The annuity schedule showed there was no spouses pension, and the accompanying letter 
asked Mrs L to call immediately if any of the details were incorrect. It seems no call was 
made.
I appreciate that the original recommendation letter included a recommendation for a 50% 
spouses pension. But there was a revised illustration produced on the day the 
recommendation letter was dated, which didnt include a spouses pension. I think it is clear 
that at the very least, the option of an annuity without a spouses pension was discussed. 
And it was this illustration that was included and referenced in Mrs Ls application for the 
annuity.
The application form did include Mr Ls details within the joint life section  although marked 
non applicable. And the annuity form (sent out after the annuity was in payment to confirm 
Mrs Ls personal details) included Mr Ls details in reference to a joint annuitant. But its not 
unusual for changes to be made following a recommendation letter. And its also not unusual 
for customers to include information on forms that arent relevant  especially as pensions is not an area in which many people are certain in their understanding. 
The form sent after the annuity was setup was a standard form and it said a second 
annuitants details only need to be completed if the annuity was paid on a joint-life basis.  At 
this point Mrs L had already received confirmation of the annuity basis which didnt include a 
spouses pension, but this section was completed in any event. Mrs L had selected a ten-
year guarantee, which Mr L could benefit from, and it might well be that this is why it was 
thought Mr Ls details needed to be included.
Ultimately, based on the evidence we have I dont think there is enough to conclude that the 
business did anything wrong. There are gaps in the evidence that have to be filled in using 
the balance of probabilities  and so I can understand why Mr L might feel aggrieved at my 
decision. However, the evidence shows an illustration produced and referenced in the 
application form without a spouses pension. Mrs L didnt say at the time that the basis was 
incorrect when she received on two occasions confirmation of the annuity basis without a 
spouses pension. And there is no rational explanation as to why the adviser would go 
against Mrs Ls wishes. I think its most likely that after the initial conversation, Mrs L perhaps 
in discussion with the adviser changed her mind about the basis of her annuity and the 
adviser (and the pension provider) arranged the annuity in line with her wishes.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman