DRN-2933740
The complaint
Mr K complains about an exchange applied to a transaction with Skrill Limited. He said that
there shouldve been no need to exchange this currency.
  
What happened
The Skrill service is an electronic money service, which allows users to hold balances
(effectively, linked sub-accounts) in different currencies.
Mr K told us that he opened an account with Skrill in April 2020. The account was in Czech
Koruna (CZK). Then on 4 May he set up a Skrill virtual prepaid debit card in Euros (EUR).
On 11 May he received a payment in EUR into his Skrill account from another user.
Mr K complains that the payment was converted from EUR to CZK, which meant that he lost
money on the conversion and also had to pay Skrills conversion fee.
Mr K said if hed paid money into his account in EUR, Skrill wouldve created a balance in
that new currency. It had only converted this money because someone else paid it in. Mr K
thought that automatically converting funds sent by another user was unfair, and different to
what other similar services did. He said that if Skrill wanted to do this, it shouldve either
warned him about it, or asked him first. And he said that because he had an active Skrill
virtual card in EUR, the money couldve been paid there instead.
Skrill said that Mr Ks account only had one active currency on it when the payment was
received, which was CZK. If Mr K wanted to have a second currency on his account, he had
to activate that himself. In this case that second currency  EUR  was only activated after
this third party payment was credited to his account. Mr K then moved the balance from CZK
to EUR, and this created an EUR balance.
Skrill set out the relevant terms which apply to transfers between different Skrill users. Those
say that if a Skrill user pays another user in a currency they already hold, then that currency
balance will be credited. But if a user pays another user in a currency they dont already
hold, then the money will be converted into a currency they do hold. So incoming third party
payments dont create a balance in a new currency.
Skrill didnt think it had done anything wrong. But as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to refund
the charge that was applied when Mr K moved his money back from CZK to EUR, which was
€34. It also offered to move some money around for Mr K, to cover the fee of €10 required
for the prepaid debit card which he had applied for. Skrill said that Mr K had opened a new
account to get the debit card, and it would have to close one of his two accounts, as they
were duplicates. It offered to transfer his money to the new account, and close the old one.
Mr K was unhappy with what Skrill had done, and what it had offered him. So he asked us to
look into this.
The first investigator who looked at this thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt
think Skrill made it entirely clear to Mr K that an account opened for a secondary currency
would need to be activated before it was used. And our investigator said this didnt seem to
be in the terms of the account either. So he thought that Skrill should reimburse the original
currency exchange commission that was charged when Skrill converted the inward payment
on 11 May from EUR to CZK, as well as the commission charged when Mr K exchanged this
money back to EUR. And our investigator said Skrill should pay Mr K £50 compensation for
the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator also asked if Mr K wanted to take up Skrills offer to move the balance from
his old account, which didnt have a card, onto the new account which did.
But Skrill didnt agree. It replied to correct what it said were a number of inaccuracies in our
investigators view.
Skrill said that our investigator thought that when Mr K opened his account, he had chosen a
CZK account as his primary currency and EUR as secondary. It appears as if our
investigator thought this because thats what Skrill told our service, in a submission dated 30
October 2020. But now Skrill said that wasnt right. It said customers only select a primary
currency when they register. They then have the option to choose a second currency after
registration.
Skrill said that Mr K couldve created a secondary balance in EUR by depositing
funds from his card and selecting EUR as the processing currency. But he hadnt done that,
and receiving money in a different currency would not automatically create a secondary
balance.
Skrill also said that it didnt understand what our investigator meant when he said Mr K
hadnt understood that he could only activate a second currency by paying in money himself.
Skrill said Mr K didnt have a secondary balance when he received money into his account.
And Skrill thought Mr K had understood that he needed to pay in EUR himself if he wanted
to create a secondary balance.
Skrill thought that our investigator had also misunderstood Mr Ks second account, which
had an EUR debit card attached to it, because our investigator thought that Mr K had an
EUR wallet open at the time, and was expecting his EUR transfer from another user to be
paid in there.
Skrill said that Mr K opened a second Skrill account, under a different email address, a few
hours after he got this incoming EUR transfer. This account was never activated, it was
eventually closed as a duplicate.
This case was then passed to a different investigator. Because Skrill thought our first
investigator got some facts wrong, our second investigator asked it for some more
information. Mr K had told us he created a Skrill EUR prepaid card on 4 May, but Skrill said
this wasnt done until 11 May, so our investigator asked Skrill to show us that. He asked for
evidence that Skrill wouldnt create a new currency balance unless a deposit was made by
the account holder  so transfers in another currency would be automatically converted. And
he wanted to check why Skrill thought that Mr K knew he could only create a new balance
account if he made a deposit himself.
Skrill said that Mr K did create his new card on 4 May, but just applying for a new card didnt
create a balance in the currency of that card. It said that creating a new balance is set out in
a help article, which it shared the link for. And that article didnt suggest that an incoming
transfer from another user would create a balance. Skrill said it had made a business
decision not to auto create a secondary balance when someone received money from a third
party in a different currency. It didnt send us the evidence our investigator asked for, to
show that Mr K understood this part of the Skrill terms. It sent the relevant terms again,which are expressed as dealing with transfers from an account, not to an account.
Our second investigator also produced a view on the case. And he didnt think this complaint
should be upheld. He said he understood why Mr K was frustrated, but Skrill didnt have to
follow the same process as other businesses Mr K had used in the past. It had followed its
own process here, and had followed the terms of the account. Our investigator didnt think
the incoming payment Mr K received was made to an active EUR balance, otherwise he said
Mr K wouldnt have been charged.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr K had created an active EUR balance. The Skrill card he
set up in EUR wouldnt have been activated until a balance was placed on it, and Mr K
hadnt done that.
Because our investigator said that Skrill had only followed its own terms, he didnt think that
it had to do any more now.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that he had agreed with the first view, and he had expected that
an ombudsman would be asked to reach a final decision after that. Mr K thought our service
should already have sent this case to an ombudsman.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr K hasnt shown us that he had an active balance in EUR when his payment was
received. So I do think that, in converting a payment into Mr Ks account into the 
primary currency of his account, that Skrill has followed its own terms.
But I dont agree that this is a straightforward issue, or that it was easy for Mr K to
understand this before he received this payment. The article on creating secondary 
balances which Skrill showed us doesnt explain that an incoming payment from a 
third party in a different currency wont create a new balance.
I think its also important that the Fees section of the Skrill website repeatedly says 
simply Receiving money is always free of charge. Those sections do not go on to 
explain the ways in which fees may be automatically and instantly applied by Skrill to 
the money received.
So, in order to be aware of the cost to him of receiving this payment, Mr K would 
have had to ignore a number of short, simple explanations of fees on Skrills website, 
and instead, read very carefully and in full a paragraph in the terms which is 
expressed to apply to transfers out of the account, not to transfers in.
Because it is so difficult to find information on the costs Mr K incurred, and because I 
think that parts of Skrills website may be actively misleading on this point, I dont 
think that Mr K has been treated fairly. I think that Skrill should reimburse Mr K the 
fees he was charged when his currency was converted from EUR to CZK, and the 
fees he was charged when he opted to convert this money back. And Skrill should 
pay Mr K €100 to make up for the inconvenience.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K said that he was glad that Id seen this case in the way hed tried to explain from the 
beginning. He said he didnt have anything to add, and was happy to accept my provisional 
decision.
Skrill said it didnt accept my provisional decision, as per the details already provided. It has 
offered no further evidence or argument. 
Ive reviewed my provisional decision, and I havent changed my mind. So Ill now make the 
award I previously proposed. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Skrill Limited must reimburse Mr K the fees he was charged on both 
currency exchanges, from EUR to CZK and back, and pay Mr K €100 to make up for the 
inconvenience. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman