DRN-3506999
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how American International Group Limited (AIG) dealt with a claim 
under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W has explained that he has mobile phone insurance as part of his packaged bank 
account. And so, in September 2021, when his phone developed a fault, Mr W decided to 
make a claim under this policy, to repair the fault with the phone.
After making the claim, it was agreed that Mr Ws phone would be repaired under the policy, 
by AIGs approved repairer. So, Mr W took his phone there, and collected it after the repair 
had been completed.
However, Mr W said that when he got his phone back, he was concerned with the repair that 
had been carried out. Mr W said his phone showed a warning notification, saying the phone 
didnt recognise the screen as a genuine manufacturers part. Mr W was unhappy with this, 
and so raised the matter with AIG.
It told Mr W that his policy explained that it would either use manufacturer parts, or 
manufacturer quality parts. In this case, it said it had used a part that wasnt made by Mr Ws 
phone manufacturer, but one of the same quality. It noted the warning sign would stop 
shortly. And it said that if Mr W had any concerns about the quality of the repair, he could 
take the phone back to the repairers for it to review. 
Mr W didnt feel the above position was fair. He said his insurance policy said repair would 
be with genuine manufacturer parts, and he would only accept parts of that nature. Mr W 
also said the picture on the phone screen wasnt as sharp, and that the screen itself wasnt 
as responsive as the previous one. Because Mr W was unhappy he raised a complaint with 
AIG.
AIG maintained its position. It said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr 
Ws policy when repairing his phone. And, it reiterated that if Mr W had concerns about the 
quality of the repair, the phone could be taken back to the original repairer to review and 
remedy if this was needed. But it highlighted that this would also be done using 
manufacturer quality parts, as opposed to actual manufacturer items.
Mr W remained unhappy with this. And so, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think AIG had acted unfairly in how it 
handled the phone repair. She said the terms and conditions of the policy were clear in 
saying that the repair could be completed using manufacturer quality parts. And because 
AIG had acted in line with this, she didnt consider AIG had done anything wrong. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said he found the way the terms and conditions of the policy were 
written confusing, and hard to understand. He felt the terms suggested genuine 
manufacturer parts would be used.
As Mr W didnt agree, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend on upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. Mr 
W feels AIG didnt handle his claim fairly  because he is dissatisfied with the repair 
completed to the phone. So, Ive considered his concerns. And based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think AIG did anything wrong in the way it carried out the repair.
The starting point for deciding whether an insurer has dealt with a claim fairly and 
reasonably is the terms and conditions of the policy taken out  which are contained in the 
policy booklet. So, Ive considered these.
The information within the policy booklet confirms that the policy covers mobile phone 
repairs. And it says it will explain the process at the time of claiming. The terms and 
conditions in the policy booklet dont expand on this further. So, there isnt anything within it 
that says any repairs will be completed with genuine manufacturer parts as Mr W expected. 
Or anything that says non-genuine parts will be used. As the policy doesnt specify how the 
repair will be conducted, Ive needed to consider whether it has been carried out in a fair and 
reasonable way, in line with industry guidelines set up by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). 
Having thought carefully about this, I think the settlement of the claim was handled fairly and 
reasonably in line with the above in this instance.
I say this because the terms and conditions dont tell Mr W the repair parts would be genuine 
manufacturer ones. And, it is common within insurance claims of this nature, for non-genuine 
parts to be used when completing a repair. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for a non-
genuine screen to be used.
To ensure the non-genuine screen used in this instance was a fair and reasonable one, I 
asked AIG for information on the specific screen used in the repair. AIG has provided me 
with information, including a website, which details the specification of the screen used in the 
repair. And from reviewing this, I can see the screen is one designed for the make and 
model of Mr Ws phone, with it being of the same specification  for example it being an 
OLED screen. Ive also reviewed the website for the place where Mr Ws phone was 
repaired. And on looking at this, Im satisfied the information on this also shows that the non-
genuine screen is comparable with the genuine manufacturer one  albeit the non-
manufacturer screen has a lifetime warranty, whereas the manufacturer one has a warranty 
of three months.
Given this was the case, and this is in line with other policies of this nature, I dont think the 
items used in the repair are unfair.
Further to this, whilst not in the terms and conditions of the policy, the Insurance Product 
Information Document provided to Mr W does explain the following:
If you choose a repair option, any repairers will use genuine manufacturer or manufacturer 
quality parts and include a 24-month limited warranty provided by the repair agent.
So, I think this did provide some guidance to Mr W as to how his claim would be handled. Mr W feels this isnt very clear in explaining that non-manufacturer parts might be used. But I 
disagree. I think its clear in noting it could be manufacturer parts or ones of manufacturer 
quality, but not genuine ones. So, Im satisfied this point doesnt change the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Mr W has said there was a warning notification that came up on the screen to highlight that it 
was a non-genuine part. AIG has explained this warning notification would stop, and that it 
didnt affect how the phone worked. This is also explained on the repairers website, which 
says:
An Important Display Message appears on the locked screen for four days and within the 
Settings app for 15 days after repairer and after disappearing into the About page within 
Settings. The message states that Apple was unable to verify this iphone has a genuine 
Apple display with a link to learn more. These notifications do not affect your ability to use 
the phone or screens functionality but used by Apply to promote the use of their own 
screens.
For the above reasons, and because the phone hasnt stopped functioning as it should, Im 
satisfied AIG has acted fairly.
I understand that Mr W has said the screens picture isnt as sharp as before, and that the 
screen is less responsive. AIG has highlighted to Mr W that if he feels there are problems 
with the screen, that he should take it to the approved repairer to deal with under the 
warranty provided for the work. Where a policyholder is raising concerns of this nature, Id 
expect the insurer to let the policyholder know of the warranty, and how to move this 
forward. So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for AIG to do this here. I havent received 
any evidence to show that Mr W did take the item back for these concerns to be looked into. 
So, Mr W may wish to consider doing this now.
Mr W has said that he took his mobile phone into a mobile phone shop following the repair  
and he was told that having a non-genuine screen on the phone would devalue the phone. I 
havent seen anything firm from an expert to note this is the case. However, I dont think this 
alters the outcome of this complaint in any event. As above, its usual for non-genuine parts 
to be used in claims of this nature  and I dont consider it to have been unfair in this 
instance either. And so, Im not intending on requiring AIG to do anything differently.   
AIG responded to my provisional decision and noted it didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr W didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided me with additional evidence or comments to alter the provisional 
decision noted above. And so, my final decision remains the same as that of my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require American International 
Group Limited (AIG) to do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman