DRN-3972028
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the way Folk2Folk Limited (F2F) has handled the investment she 
made on its peer-to-peer (P2P) lending platform. She says it has broken the agreement with 
lenders and allowed further borrowing - which has increased the risk to repayment of her 
funds.
What happened
In July 2017, Mrs R lent £100,000 to a loan promoted by F2F. 
In September 2017, F2F contacted Mrs R to explain the borrower had requested (and it 
agreed to) a further advance of £350,000 with additional security being taken to ensure the 
loan to value (LTV) remains within its guidelines at 60% (including the further advance).
In January 2018, F2F wrote to Mrs R to explain that the borrower was transferring the loan to 
a sister company. It confirmed the legal charges will be given by the same company - with all 
other aspects of the loan remaining the same.
In October 2018, the loan became impaired as the borrower had not met the payments due. 
The borrowers business has now gone into administrations and Mrs R hasnt had her full 
interest and capital repaid. There has been some recovery action that has resulted in Mrs R 
receiving some of her capital  but recovery it still ongoing. 
In January 2021, Mrs R raised a complaint with F2F as she was concerned about the 
potential loss of her investment. She complained about how the loan had been administered 
 specifically raising concerns about the additional funds being lent without meeting the 
criteria of the loan and therefore putting her funds at a higher unnecessary risk.
F2F didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
- While the loan has not performed as expected, F2F didnt act outside of the 
guidelines or processes in accepting the application for the further advance.
- It gave notice of the change in LTV and highlighted Mrs R could contact F2F should 
she have any queries. It would have assisted in finding an alternative investment if 
Mrs R had made contact.
- It is working towards the sale of the security property which, upon completion is to be 
used to repay Mrs Rs capital in full. 
Mrs R referred her complaint to this service for an independent review. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt think F2F needed to anything further. In 
summary she said:
- While the loan initially started at a 50% LTV, she didnt find any provisions which
state the LTV must remain fixed. Rather, F2Fs website explained it lends up to a 
maximum of 60% LTV ratio. F2F communicated in the further advance confirmation 
letter that the further advance still kept the loan within their 60% LTV guidelines. So, 
she wasnt persuaded that F2F misled Mrs R or there was a breach of the terms.
- She didnt think the approval of the further advance was subject to the special 
condition which Mrs R referred to as it didnt need to be met in order for the borrower 
to get the further advance agreed. 
- Mrs R invested in The Easy In/Easy Out loan product that gave her the option to 
give notice to sell her investment. But despite the concerns she now raises about the 
further advance and the LTV increasing, she didnt make attempts to be withdrawn 
from the loan when given this information. The fact she raised her complaint after the 
loan had failed and during the recovery process, suggests Mrs R is using the benefit 
of hindsight to make her submissions. 
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators assessment and ask for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision on the complaint. She said the loan hadnt been managed with due diligence. 
She said the reference to the risk management section of F2F website is dated August 2017, 
so was not in place when the loan was agreed on terms of 50% LTV. She pointed out the 
Easy In/Easy Out option was not available on this loan as it was taken out on a fixed term 
basis. Mrs R has also provided further comments about information relating the value of the 
borrowers assets and details of an outstanding bond that she understood should have 
settled prior to commencement of the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original complaint that Mrs R raised with F2F was about how the loan has been 
administered after she invested  and her concerns centred around action that took place 
subsequent to her investment. So, my considerations of this complaint will only cover these 
points  not anything to do with the sale of the investment. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions that set out the relationship between F2F and its 
customers - both borrowers and lenders. Relevant to Mrs R are the terms relating to her 
relationship with F2F as a lender. Essentially the relationship involves F2F bringing together 
prospective borrowers and lenders through the operation of a P2P platform. It presents 
information on lending opportunities that investors can put funds towards.  The terms confirm 
a key part of F2F role is,  to act as the agent of the Lender(s) and also it has the authority 
to act as its agent to do all such things as are required to be done in connection with lending 
and borrowing. Lenders are lending money to the borrower under the terms of a 
loan agreement. As the agent of the lenders, F2F, is responsible for carrying out the 
loan and administering it in line with the loan agreement. In the lender agreements section of 
the terms it confirms The Lender agrees and appoints Folk2Folk to manage the Loan 
including but not limited to any applications by the borrower for consent of the Lenders. 
F2F also had regulatory obligations to its customers, like Mrs R. These include a 
requirement to communicate information in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading and 
act in its customers best interests, and to treat them fairly.  
Having considered all of this, Im satisfied F2F had wide discretion to act on behalf of lenders 
when managing the loan. In order to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied there 
had been a failing in the way F2F conducted itself taking into account the terms and its other 
obligations. But having carefully considered everything, I havent found reason to say F2F 
has treated Mrs R unfairly when administering the loan - specifically when it agreed the 
further advance with the borrower. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I havent seen anything to suggest F2Fs actions have caused a breach of the loan 
terms. Mrs R did point to an additional condition that was noted in the loan offer. This relates 
to the borrower making a partial repayment and how the release of plots from the security 
should be dealt with. The evidence Ive seen doesnt indicate the agreement of the further advance was linked to a partial repayment of the original loan, so I dont find this condition to 
applicable to the issues Im looking at in this complaint. 
Mrs R has raised concerns about the impact of the further advance agreed to the LTV and in 
turn increasing the risk of her investment. F2F explain the loan started at 50% LTV but this 
did increase when the further advance was agreed. It says it does not offer loans with fixed 
LTV and only lends up to 60% of the value of the security and this was stated on its website 
at the time the loan completed in 2017. Ive reviewed the available evidence in respect of 
this.
F2F says it was clear on its website in the risk management section that it agrees lending up 
to 60% of LTV. It provided a snapshot from its website this says We only lend up to 60% of 
the value of the security  we use a maximum 60% Loan to Value (LTV) ratio to calculate 
how much we will lend to a Borrower  This supports that it did provide information detailing 
the maximum LTV could be up to 60%. F2F says when it agreed the additional borrowing the 
LTV didnt exceed this maximum figure. 
I have noted Mrs Rs comments about the dating of the website extract F2F provided (from 
August 2017). She says this is dated after she agreed to lend, so this isnt evidence of it 
being in place when she agree to lend in June / July 2017. I have asked F2F to provide any 
further information it has to show what the website pages would have looked like earlier in 
2017. F2F maintain that the same information was detailed in the months before. It says due 
to a change in website provider, it is unable to evidence the same page. But it did provide a 
copy of the home page which is dated July 2017. This doesnt show the full content on the 
website, but it does show a link to there being a risk management page. This supports the 
assertion the LTV information was available at this time. I acknowledge that F2F havent 
been able to provide clear evidence from its website of the 60% LTV parameter being set out 
at the time Mrs R invested.  But the fact an earlier website extract isnt available isnt proof it 
didnt contain information about the maximum LTV. On balance I think it is likely the same 
information was on the website the month or so earlier when Mrs R invested.  
I also note there is other information available that would have alerted Mrs R to the F2F 
having a 60% LTV guideline. When F2F informed Mrs R about the further in advance in 
September 2017 it confirmed in this letter to her that the LTV was still to remain within its 
guidelines at 60% including the additional advance. Im not aware that Mrs R raised any 
concerns about when she received this information. If this was something of strong concern, 
I think it is reasonable to says she would have at least queried this when receiving this 
update  but I havent seen that this was done until making her complaint several years later. 
Ive also considered the comments Mrs R has made about the type of loan she invested in. 
F2F has now clarified that the confirmation of lending letter sent to Mrs R confirms that the
loan Mrs R was investing into was a Fixed Term Loan  and not an Easy In / Easy Out loan 
as it previously indicated in its submissions. So, the terms that covered Easy In / Easy Out 
loans are not relevant to my consideration of this complaint.  
Finally, I note Mrs R has made some comments in response to the investigators view about 
information she has more recently discovered in relation to valuations and outstanding 
debts. If Mrs R has concerns about the accuracy of information given to her before she 
became a lender in this loan, she will need raise these separately with F2F.
While I can understand Mrs Rs concerns that she is at risk of losing a significant amount of 
the capital she invested in this loan, I havent found that this is as a result of the way it has 
been administered by F2F. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman