DRN-2853438
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC held outdated telephone contact details for him, and 
that they sent account access verification codes to the outdated telephone number which 
meant that Mr R was unbale to gain access to his account.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr R visiting his local Lloyds branch to update his contact details, which 
were subsequently shown correctly in his online banking account. In March 2020, while Mr R 
was overseas, he attempted to fund an online trading account from his Lloyds account, but 
was unable to complete the transaction because the verification code to enable him to do so 
was sent by Lloyds to his old telephone number, which he no longer has access to. Mr R 
contacted Lloyds to try to rectify this issue, but the member of staff that Mr R spoke with was 
rude and the issue wasnt resolved. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Rs complaint. They agreed that the telephone number that they had 
sent the verification code too was incorrect and advised that they had purged that number 
from their systems to prevent the issue happening again. Lloyds also apologised for the 
length of time that it had taken them to respond to Mr Rs complaint and they made a 
payment of £200 to Mr R to compensate Mr R for any distress and inconvenience he may 
have incurred.
Unfortunately, Lloyds sent their complaint response letter to Mr Rs UK address, despite 
being informed by Mr R that he was overseas. Mr R was also unhappy that, following 
Lloydss complaint response, he remained unable to fund his online trading account. Lloyds 
looked at the continuing issue that Mr R was experiencing and ascertained that his recent 
funding attempts had been flagged by their fraud prevention system, and Lloyds agreed to 
remove the restrictions blocking the account. 
The Lloyds representative that Mr R spoke with also agreed to call Mr R back the following 
day to check that the issue was now resolved. However, the representative didnt call Mr R 
until ten days later. At that time, the representative agreed that Mr R hadnt received the 
continuing standard of service from Lloyds that they aspired to, and they made a further 
payment of £200 to Mr R to compensate him for the additional trouble and upset that he had 
experienced.
By this time, Mr R was also claiming compensation for financial loss incurred on the basis 
that he had been prevented from making the investments that he had wanted because 
Lloyds had prevented him from funding his online trading account. It took Lloyds 
approximately one further month to respond to this claim  which they declined  although 
Lloyds did acknowledge that it had taken them longer than it should have to issue their 
response and so they made a final payment of £100 to Mr R as compensation for this.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Lloyds responses, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that Lloyds could be 
held solely accountable for Mr R not being able to make the investments that he wanted to, 
and they felt that the compensation that Lloyds had already paid to Mr R was fair and 
reasonable in regard to the service issues that hed experienced. So, they didnt uphold Mr 
Rs complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a business provides a standard of service to a customer which that customer 
considers to be inadequate, what this service would expect would be that the business 
would review the service that it has provided and, if the business agrees that the level of 
service given didnt meet the standard they seek to provide, apologise to the customer and 
pay compensation to that customer that is fair, reasonable, and proportionate, in light of the 
upset and inconvenience that the customer has experienced. 
Lloyds dont dispute that the standard of service that they provided to Mr R in this instance 
was less that they would have liked, and they have apologised to Mr R and issued three 
instances of compensation to him, totalling £500. Lloyds also removed the incorrect 
telephone number and the potential fraud blocks from Mr Rs account.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and an offer that is considered fair and 
reasonable by one party might not be considered as such by another. However, the £500 
total compensation that Lloyds have already paid to Mr R does feel fair to me, and I note that 
its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances here. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that the complaint responses that Lloyds have already issued 
to Mr R  including the payments of compensation  do represent a fair response to the 
service aspects of Mr Rs complaint, and it follows from this that I wont be instructing Lloyds 
to take any further action in this regard at this time.
Mr R also believes that Lloyds should compensate him for financial loss - specifically for the 
investment loss he has incurred as a result of not being able to make the investments that 
he wanted to because of Lloyds actions which effectively prevented him from funding his 
online trading account.
I can appreciate Mr Rs point here  to a degree  but in order for me to consider instructing 
Lloyds to compensate Mr R for the financial loss that hes claiming here, Id need to be 
satisfied that Lloyds were solely responsible for Mr R not being able to make the investments 
that he wanted to make.
Ultimately, I dont feel that this is the case in this instance. And I say this because other 
forms of funding the online trading account were available for Mr R, including that Mr R could 
fund the account via online transfer. And, while Mr R did try to fund the online trading 
account via online transfer but was unable to do so, it seems apparent from the evidence 
available to me that this wasnt because of any issue with Lloyds systems  and indeed 
Lloyds have been able to demonstrate that there were no problems with their own systems 
at the time that Mr R attempted the transfer that would have prevented Mr R from making the 
transfer  but rather that there was an issue with one of the other parties involved in the 
transfer that prevented the funds from being received. 
Because of this, its very difficult for me to conclude that Lloyds should be considered as 
being responsible for the financial loss that Mr R is claiming here, and this is because there were no issues with Lloyds systems that would have prevented Mr R from making an online 
transfer to fund the online trading account, which in turn means that I cant consider Lloyds 
as being solely responsible for the loss that Mr R wishes to be compensated for.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr R was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Lloyds to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mr R can understand, given everything that Ive explained above, why I 
have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman