DRN-3423646
The complaint
T complains about the time it took HDI Global SE  UK (HDI) to handle a claim following an 
ingress of water from the upstairs propertys balcony. T says HDI shouldve instructed trace 
and access much sooner to mitigate the damage.
Mr E brings this complaint on behalf of T, a commercial landlord business, and for simplicity 
Ill also refer to him throughout my decision.
What happened
T was the leaseholder of a rental property within a block of flats. The whole block was 
covered under a buildings insurance policy with HDI. T is entitled to bring this complaint as a 
beneficiary of the policy.
Briefly, Mr E made a claim under the policy for water damage after the tenant told him about 
water stains on the ceiling. HDI appointed a loss adjuster and accepted the claim. But Mr E 
doesnt think HDI handled the claim properly and he says its delays allowed further damage 
to happen.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ts complaint because he didnt think HDI was responsible for 
arranging the work needed to mitigate the damage. 
T didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome T hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of this complaint, so I wont go into detail about 
everything that happened. Instead Ill focus on the key issues and explain how I reached my 
decision.
Theres no dispute that Ts property suffered water damage, and HDI accepted the claim. 
However, Mr E says HDI shouldve arranged trace and access sooner so that the damage 
couldve been mitigated.
Looking at Ts policy, it says:
Buildings
Peril
We will pay the costs and expenses you pay with our written permission to find the source 
of any damage caused to the building by escape of water from fixed water or heating 
system and then make good. 
The evidence here tells me that HDI would pay for T to find the source of the leak which 
caused the damage. Having looked through the rest of the policy, I havent identified any 
cover for HDI to carry out trace and access, so I see no reason to expect HDI to trace the 
source of the leak. 
While Mr E says HDI was slow to trace the source and therefore failed to mitigate further 
damage, given what the policy says, HDI wasnt responsible for that anyway. Under the 
policy, T would be expected to mitigate damage, so the onus was on T to identify and fix the 
source of the leak. HDIs responsibility was to indemnify T for the resulting damage.
It was Ts responsibility to show HDI that itd suffered a loss from an insured peril. I 
appreciate it wouldve been frustrating for Mr E because he thought the water was getting 
into the flat from the upstairs property and his actions were limited because of that. Once it 
became apparent the neighbours representative couldnt identify a leak, HDI went to Ts 
property and identified the source of the water ingress. Rainwater running between the wall 
and balcony of the upstairs property and into Ts property was identified to be the source. 
The damage falls under an insured peril of the type listed in the policy documents so, once 
that was confirmed to HDI, the evidence shows it reasonably assessed Ts claim in line with 
the terms of the policy.
I see that HDI explained it couldnt carry out repairs to Ts property until the leak itself was 
repaired. As the water ingress originated from the neighbours balcony, the repairs were, 
unfortunately, outside both HDI and Ts control. I think it was reasonable that HDI didnt 
complete repairs until the source of the leak was fixed. Thats because any repairs wouldve 
needed to be repeated each time water leaked through to the property.
Mr E and HDI provided a lot of information about this complaint. While my decision is brief, 
Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the evidence. The simple fact is, T 
wasnt covered for trace and access under the policy and, until the leak was fixed, HDI 
couldnt be expected to complete repairs. I can understand why Mr E wants to hold someone 
responsible for the ongoing damage, which was outside of Ts control to prevent, but I 
havent seen any evidence that HDI did anything wrong.
Overall, Im satisfied that HDI responded to Ts claim reasonably and in line with the terms of 
the policy. I see no reason to require anything of HDI.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman