The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the interest rate he received on his Fixed Rate Savings Account with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mr W opened a 3-Year Fixed Rate Savings Account with HSBC in March 2019. But, due to 
an error in the compound interest calculations in the advertising material, Mr W would only 
receive £1,500,00 interest, instead of the £1,501.37 he was expecting.
In August 2019, when HSBC realised their error, they wrote to Mr W and offered him the 
option to close the account early at no penalty. Mr W complained to his branch manager and 
asked that his complaint was looked at by a Regional Director. But HSBC used a specialist 
team to deal with the matter. HSBC credited Mr W with £55 by way of an apology for the 
service theyd provided, and to cover the additional £1.37 interest Mr W was expecting.
HSBC also offered Mr W an upgrade to the World Elite credit card and to waive the annual 
£195 fee for one year. Mr W declined this offer, as he considered no credit card fee for three 
years and an additional £246.37 compensation (taking the total compensation to £300 plus 
the £1.37 interest) would be more appropriate in the circumstances. 
Our investigator found HSBC had acted reasonably. She explained that, while HSBC had 
made an error, it wasnt our role to punish them for their error, but to put things right for Mr 
W. She thought it was reasonable his complaint was dealt with by a specialist team, as they
would understand how to solve issues like this in a timely manner. She also thought the £55
paid was reasonable as it covered the loss of interest and compensated Mr W for the service
hed received when he complained. Because of this, she didnt think HSBC should do
anything more.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said that banks should be responsible for their 
actions and he doesnt think human error is an acceptable excuse and has no substance in 
my opinion in a court of law. He believes that the investigators view has been one-sided in 
favour of HSBC and he will NOT allow any bank to play with my £25,000 savings  he 
doesnt think its been taken into consideration that other banks were offering much higher 
interest rates than HSBC offered at the time he opened the account.
Mr W has also said that HSBC offered him unlimited use of a World Elite credit card and 
then removed the offer, despite having confirmed it in writing. So he would like an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1384784Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The facts of this case arent in dispute, so 
my decision will concentrate on whats reasonable to compensate Mr W for the service hes 
received.
HSBC incorrectly advertised an interest rate, and this meant that Mr W would receive £1.37 
less interest than he was expecting. Its not disputed that this error shouldnt have happened. 
When an error like this occurs, Id expect the business to advise any affected customers and 
offer to put this right. HSBC did this, writing to Mr W and giving him the opportunity to 
withdraw his savings early without the withdrawal penalties that would normally apply. They 
also paid Mr W the £1.37 interest he wasnt getting as part of his overall compensation. I 
think this was fair, and I wouldnt expect them to do anything more  by paying the 
compensation Mr W has not been financially disadvantaged by the error.
Mr W has said that other banks were offering higher rates that HSBC, and I dont doubt that 
was the case. But he chose to invest his savings with HSBC at the interest rate offered. And, 
because of the compensation HSBCs paid him, hes received the interest he was expecting. 
HSBC have also said they didnt send Mr W the promised written confirmation when he 
visited a branch to book an appointment with a manager, so he could complain about the 
interest rate error. They also explained to Mr W why a Regional Director wasnt the right 
person to deal with a specialist interest rate complaint. I agree that a specialist team would 
not only have the understanding of how to resolve complaints like this in a timely manner, 
but they would also the authority to be able put things right  something a branch manager 
or regional director may not be able to do.
I appreciate this has been a frustrating experience for Mr W, and it wasnt the level of service 
he was expecting from HSBC. But I think the £55 he was given is reasonable for the service 
he received and for the interest he wasnt getting because of HSBCs error. So I wont be 
asking them to increase this compensation.
Ive also looked at the offer of the World Elite credit card. On 20 August 2019, following up 
from a phone call with Mr W the day before, HSBC confirmed to Mr W in writing that theyd 
offered an upgrade the customer to a World Elite CC and waive the £195 fee which the 
customer declined.
I agree with Mr W that this doesnt specifically say this offer was for one years fee only, but 
it also doesnt say its unlimited use  meaning HSBC will never charge a fee. The offer is to 
waive the £195 fee, which implies its for one year only; otherwise it would just say waive 
the fee. 
This offer was initially made on the phone, so Mr W had the opportunity to clarify it before he 
decided to accept the offer or not. And, because Mr W had already declined the offer on the 
phone, I cant agree that HSBC removed the offer after confirming it in writing. So, as I think 
the £55 already paid was reasonable compensation for the service Mr W Had received, I 
wont be asking HSBC to reinstate the credit card offer.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about HSBC UK Bank 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2020.Andrew Burford
Ombudsman