DRN-2368279
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about their mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
What happened
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs Ds fixed rate period on their mortgage came to an end. They 
complain that they werent given enough notice to find another rate or put a new mortgage in 
place. Mr and Mrs D say they were given four days notice of the rate coming to an end, and 
this resulted in them going on to Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR). Mr and Mrs D 
remained on the SVR for around a month, until they moved their mortgage to another lender. 
Mr and Mrs D complained to Halifax that they have paid more than they should have, by 
going on to the SVR for a month. They would like the difference in the higher payment and 
their original payment returned for the month of February 2020. 
Halifax investigated the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that Mr and Mrs D had been 
sent mortgage paperwork when they took out the new rate that told them the date the fixed 
term period would end. It went on to say that the letter sent four days before the expiry was 
in fact a Direct Debit payment adjustment letter, that notified Mr and Mrs D of the change in 
payment amount. It went on to say this was not intended to notify them of the end of the 
fixed rate period. In conclusion Halifax said it was up to Mr and Mrs D to make a note of the 
date the fixed rate came to an end and contact the bank if they wanted to look in to a 
switching. 
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator investigated he complaint but largely agreed with Halifax. He said it was Mr 
and Mrs Ds responsibility to make a note of when the fixed rate ended and contact the bank 
if they wanted to move to a new rate. 
As Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators view  the complaints been passed to 
me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs D agreed to the mortgage offer, they signed paperwork to say they were 
happy with the rate and the term. This was their chance to decide on the period they wanted 
their fixed rate over and in return they were offered an interest rate by the business. 
They agreed a fixed rate of 1.64% until 31 January 2020 and its clear from the paperwork 
that the rate would then revert to the SVR (then 3.74%) from then onwards. This is what 
wed expect a business to do in these circumstances. 
Halifaxs also reminded Mr and Mrs D of when the fixed rate ended in the annual mortgage 
statements and Ive seen nothing to suggest any of these statements were not received by 
Mr and Mrs D - so they had several opportunities to review the interest rate they were on 
and when it ended. I can also see that they were sent to the address that we have on file, so 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that they were received. 
I can also see included in the mortgage statement was a prompt for Mr and Mrs D to log on 
and check their mortgage details via the online portal. Halifax have confirmed Mr and Mrs D 
were signed up for online banking. So, Im satisfied this was a further opportunity to check 
when the rate was due to expire. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs D were given four working days notice according to the Direct 
Debit Guarantee on the product transfer offer letter. However, the four working days notice 
they received wasnt to alert them to the fact the mortgage rate was coming to an end but a 
notification under the Direct Debit Guarantee to inform them that a payment adjustment 
would be carried out on their existing Direct Debit. This is in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. So, although Mr and Mrs D have complained this was sent too late 
- Halifax have confirmed this was not for the purpose Mr and Mrs D feel it was intended and 
Im satisfied that this was the case here. 
In summary, I wouldnt expect Halifax to have proactively contacted Mr and Mrs D to offer 
new rates. Their obligation is to let their consumers know when the fixed rate period is 
coming to an end. The onus is on the consumer to then make contact if they are unhappy 
with the variable rate. 
Based on the information Ive seen from both parties, I dont agree Halifax have done 
anything wrong in these circumstances. Ultimately, if Mr and Mrs D werent happy with their 
mortgage rate it was up to them to apply for a different one.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman