DRN-3459695
The complaint and background
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed his account to go overdrawn when he 
didnt have an arranged overdraft. Mr S says he was suffering with a gambling addiction and 
that HSBC should never have allowed the transactions he made to go through. As a result of 
his account going in an unarranged overdraft limit, Mr Ss credit file has been affected. Mr S 
would like his credit file to be amended, the gambling transactions he made to be refunded 
to him, and compensation for the distress he has been caused.
HSBC looked at Mr Ss complaint but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said that it 
took action to assist Mr S as soon as it was told of his gambling problems, and that it also 
took steps to help him repay his unarranged overdraft in an affordable way, but that it could 
not refund or reverse the gambling transactions as those transactions had been authorised 
by Mr S.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint. She said that HSBC had acted fairly. 
Mr S disagreed so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
Ive seen HSBCs notes of its contact with Mr S, and those notes show that Mr S first made 
HSBC aware of his issues with gambling in an email sent to HSBC on 28 April 2021. In this 
email Mr S explained that he had made around £500 of payments to a betting account and 
that he felt HSBC should have stopped him doing this. Mr S asked for the payments to be 
reversed. HSBC didnt receive Mr Ss email until late in the day on 28 April, and so 
responded the next day, 29 April. In its response to Mr S HSBC explained that there were 
various ways it could help him to prevent any further gambling transactions from being 
allowed, but that it couldnt reverse the pending transactions he had already made. HSBC 
also offered Mr S the assistance of its Specialist Support Team.
 
Over the following months I can see that HSBC then suspended interest from being applied 
to Mr S overdrawn balance, discussed his income and expenditure with him, and agreed 
repayment plans with Mr S to help him reduce the outstanding balance. And, ultimately, Mr S 
was able to repay his unarranged overdraft. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels he should never have been allowed to make the payments that 
took him into an unarranged overdraft, but HSBC clearly sets out in its terms and conditions 
that it will allow an account to go into an unarranged overdraft for some payments, and that it 
cant cancel payments that have been made online or using a debit card. And Mr S does 
have a responsibility to ensure that he has funds available to cover any payment he is 
making out of his account.
I might expect HSBC to have stepped in to stop further gambling transactions on Mr Ss 
account if there was a clear and sustained pattern of problem gambling evident in how he 
was using his account. But I dont think that is the case here. Looking at Mr Ss statements I 
can see that he didnt begin regularly gambling on his account until the middle of April 2021, 
and the transactions that took him into an unarranged overdraft were only around two weeks 
later. So in the absence of any contact from Mr S to say he needed help with gambling  and 
as Ive explained above Im satisfied he didnt make contact until 28 April 2021 - I dont think 
there was enough to trigger HSBC to proactively stop the transactions from being made.
  
Looking at everything that happened here, I dont think that HSBC has acted unfairly. Once it 
was aware of Mr Ss gambling issues it took steps to assist him with advice about how to 
prevent him from making similar transactions in future, and to help him with the affordable 
repayment of the outstanding balance of his account.
I do sympathise with what Mr S has told us, and I understand why hes unhappy with 
adverse information being recorded on his credit file. But a credit file is intended to show a 
true and accurate reflection of a borrowers ability to service their debts, and Mr S was not 
able to repay the outstanding balance of his account immediately, so I think it is reasonable 
for HSBC to have taken steps to make sure that was noted on his credit file. 
Bearing in mind the above, I dont think that HSBC treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably. 
And this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman