DRN-1854948
The complaint
Mr M says its unfair for Qmetric Group Limited (trading as Sure Thing!) to charge a 
cancellation fee if a motor insurance policy is cancelled within the policys cooling-off period.
What happened
Mr M used a comparison website when looking for a policy and was directed to Qmetrics 
website. He bought a policy through Qmetric three weeks before it was due to start. When 
he checked the policy documents, he found that Qmetric had made an error  about the date 
he bought his car. When he corrected it, Qmetric said a further sum was due in premium. As 
Mr M wasnt happy with that, he decided to cancel the policy. 
Qmetric told him there would be a cancellation charge of £30. It later accepted that it had 
made an error, so Mr M wouldnt be charged more for his premium after all. Mr M left the 
policy in place and therefore he wasnt required to pay the cancellation charge either. He 
complained about Qmetrics practice of charging a cancellation fee to consumers in the 
cooling-off period, as he thought it was morally wrong. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. She noted that he hadnt been 
charged a cancellation fee. She said we cant instruct businesses what to include in their 
terms and conditions. She sent Mr M a link for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as 
the FCA regulates financial businesses. Mr M said he wasnt happy with the investigators 
view. He pointed out that Qmetric had referred him to our service, yet we then said we didnt 
have the power to do anything. He asked for a review of his complaint to be carried out. 
In the meantime, Mr M contacted the FCA and copied its response to us. The FCA told Mr M 
that its rules allow for cancellation without penalty within the 14-day cooling -off period. It 
said it expected financial businesses to follow its rules and standards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We only deal with individual complaints made by consumers about the way theyve been 
treated by businesses. We consider whether a consumer has been dealt with unfairly, to 
their detriment. Here, Mr M was told hed be charged a cancellation fee, but that didnt 
happen. So he wasnt affected by Qmetrics terms and conditions and he hasnt faced a 
financial loss as a result of them. 
Mr M accepts thats the case, but he doesnt think its right for any consumer to have to pay 
a cancellation charge during the 14-day cooling-off period (especially if the insurance policy 
hasnt yet begun). I understand why he thinks thats wrong, but we cant deal with the 
general dissatisfaction felt by a consumer about a businesss practices. 
The FCA advised Mr M that its role is to regulate businesses generally and to consider 
whether theyre following its rules and standards properly. The FCAs rules allow businesses 
to make reasonable charges during the cooling-off period, if theres no element of profit in 
them and they dont operate as a penalty. And the FCA also requires that a consumer must 
be told about the charges before buying the policy. 
When consumers bring complaints to us about cancellation charges made during the 
cooling-off period, we check that the charge was proportionate to the administrative work 
carried out by the business, with no element of profit. We also check that the consumer was 
properly advised about the charges.  
Qmetric was correct to advise Mr M of his right to approach this service, as hed made a 
formal complaint to it and he wasnt satisfied with its response. Our investigator didnt say we 
had no power to investigate the issue hed raised. We often review the issue, but we couldnt 
do so in this particular case because Mr M wasnt charged a cancellation fee. Under our 
rules, he cant complain to us on behalf of other potential consumers. 
Qmetric made an error about the increased premium  which led to the dispute about the 
potential cancellation charge. I think that inconvenienced Mr M to some extent, but Qmetric 
acted quickly to put its error right. As I dont think Mr M has shown that Qmetric acted 
unreasonably towards him, I cant uphold his complaint.    
      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman