DRN-3614839
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Ms P made for a lifetime equity release mortgage with 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.  Ms P is unhappy that Aviva issued a mortgage offer and 
then withdrew it after discovering new information about the level of ground rent payable on 
the proposed property.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 11 July 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend the main thrust of the complaint be upheld. But 
she thought Aviva had put Ms P to some unnecessary time and trouble by 
suggesting she might seek to negotiate a deed of variation with the freeholder. The 
investigator thought Aviva should have known this had little prospect of succeeding 
so should have saved Ms P the bother of trying. For this, she recommended Aviva 
pay Ms P £250 compensation for her time, trouble and upset in trying unsuccessfully 
to execute a deed of variation. Aviva asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms P and Aviva. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Ms P being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate 
the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on 
how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. I also have to ensure I dont include any information that might identify 
Ms P when my decision is published.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, these are my provisional conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Like the investigator, I agree that Aviva did nothing wrong in issuing the mortgage 
offer before the true position on ground rent had been established. Its standard 
industry practice for such enquiries to be conducted between the parties solicitors 
after a mortgage offer has gone out. 
Once the true position did come to light, Aviva immediately let it be known that the 
terms of the ground rent on the proposed security for the mortgage it had offered fell 
outside its lending criteria. In that circumstance, there were two possible courses of 
action open to Aviva. It could either withdraw the mortgage offer immediately or give 
Ms P an opportunity to try and modify the ground rent terms with the freeholder. 
Aviva chose the latter when it invited Ms P to seek a deed of variation from the 
freeholder.
Our investigator thought that in Ms Ps specific circumstances, Aviva should not have 
done this: she thought Aviva should have realised there was no reasonable prospect 
of the freeholder executing a deed of variation. Having considered the point very 
carefully, Ive reached a different conclusion on this point.
Increasing ground rents are a cause for concern for lenders, so much so that the 
Council of Mortgage Lenders has published guidance on what an acceptable upper 
limit should be. So this situation is not at all uncommon. As a starting point, a deed of 
variation is do-able and generally speaking not a waste of time or an unreasonable 
suggestion to make. The outcome of such a request would depend entirely on how 
the lease has been written and what the cost to the freeholder would be if they were 
to agree to it.
Aviva couldnt know or predict the outcome of Ms P approaching her freeholder for a 
deed of variation. Rather than it being assumed there was no prospect of success, so 
therefore should not have been mooted in the first place, a deed of variation was not 
an inappropriate suggestion. It at least meant that there was a chance the mortgage 
could progress and that Ms P might not lose the time and money shed invested up to 
that point. Thats not changed by the attempt to do so ultimately proving 
unsuccessful.
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; that time has now passed. 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision; despite a reminder, weve not heard from Ms P. As 
the provisional decision and reminder were sent to the email address Ms P has used 
throughout this complaint, Im satisfied theyve been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
with nothing new to take into account, I wont be departing from my provisional conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman