DRN-2977943
The complaint
Mr R complains about the sum Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) asked him to 
repay when he took the decision to settle his finance agreement with it early.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr R entered a conditional sale agreement (agreement) with Santander for 
a used car costing £41,564.00. Everything else being equal Mr R agreed, under the terms of 
the agreement, to make an advance payment of £5,000.00 followed by 60 monthly payments 
of £783.92  making a total repayable of £52,035.20 at a flat rate of 5.73% and at an APR of 
10.9%.
Mr R says he entered into the agreement on the understanding that he would pay, on early 
settlement, substantially less than Santander later went on to seek from him.
Mr R says that he calculated that after three months he would need to pay £34,739.01 to 
settle his agreement:
sum advanced £36,564.00
interest charged £523.77(£174.59 [£36,564.00 x 5.73%/12] for 3 months)
payments made (£2,351.76)(£783.92 x 3)
calculation error £3.00
sum to settle £34,739.01
And the dealership didnt disagree with his calculation.
In June 2020 Mr R asked Santander for a settlement figure. On 26 June 2020 Santander 
confirmed to Mr R that the cost of settlement (based on a settlement date of 22 August 2020 
and a number of other assumptions) would be £35,869.00.
Mr R didnt agree with this figure and instead paid Santander £33,691.52:
sum advanced £36,564.00
interest charged £1,047.12(£174.52 [£36,564.00 x 5.73%/12] for 6 months)
payments made (£3,919.60)(£783.92 x 5)
sum to settle £33,691.52
Santander cashed Mr Rs cheque but didnt accept it in full and final settlement of the 
agreement, leaving a balance outstanding against it.
Santander also said, after Mr R complained to it, that it stood by its settlement figure of 
26 June 2020 and it wasnt persuaded that any of his calculations were agreed by the 
dealership.
On 11 September 2020 Santander confirmed to Mr R that the cost of settlement (based on a 
settlement date of 11 November 2020 and a number of other assumptions) would be 
£2,126.48.
For reasons not material to this complaint, Mr R didnt agree with Santanders 
11 September 2020 settlement figure.
Unhappy with Santanders response to his complaint Mr R referred it to our service for 
investigation. Mr R says he wouldnt have entered into the agreement had he been advised 
by the dealership that his understanding of what the early settlement cost would be was 
wrong and that the actual early settlement cost would be substantially more. To settle his 
complaint Mr R is asking for Santander to accept his payment of £33,691.52 in full and final 
settlement of his agreement rather than partial settlement of it.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said she was satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, 
that there had been no misrepresentation of the agreement terms (including early settlement 
of it) and that the sum Santander had sought from Mr R, for early settlement, had been 
calculated correctly.
Mr R didnt agree and so his complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in June 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
Its clear Mr R has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided 
detailed submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Mr R will not take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
First, I would like to say that Im satisfied that the sum Santander sought from Mr R, 
for early settlement, was calculated correctly. But this isnt Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R said he could have delayed purchasing a new car until after he had sold his 
house. And the only reason he purchased the new car was because the dealership 
didnt disagree with his calculations on the cost of settling the agreement in respect 
of it early.I accept I cant say for certain what was, or wasnt, discussed between Mr R and the 
dealership about the cost of settling the agreement early. But I find Santanders 
submission that the dealership wouldnt have entered into such a conversation, and 
the dealership has confirmed to it that no such conversation was entered into, to be 
both plausible and persuasive. This is because early settlement calculations are 
complex and would be beyond most dealerships, if not all dealerships, capabilities.
But even if I was to accept that some discussion around this point was entered into, 
Mr R has confirmed that the dealership confirmed it couldnt give an exact figure and 
in response to his calculations it simply said this seemed about right. 
In response to the investigators view Mr R said that the documentation he was 
provided with states that he had the right to discharge [his] indebtedness under the 
agreement at any time in full or in part but this documentation gave no explanation 
of the process for getting a settlement figure. 
Now in his submission to our service Mr R referred to this documentation as his loan 
agreement with Santander. However, this documentation isnt his agreement. Instead 
its Santanders representative example for finance and pre-contract credit 
information. And the latter states: you have the right upon request, to obtain a copy 
of the draft agreement free of charge.
Mr R says he signed nothing other than the documents provided to him on 
2 March 2020. However, Im not persuaded by this submission. Now as I say above 
the documents provided to Mr R on 2 March 2020 were a representative example of 
finance and pre-contract credit information, and neither of these appear to have been 
signed by Mr R. 
But what does appear to have been signed by Mr R (electronically on 
11 March 2020) is an agreement and I wonder if Mr R is getting what he signed 
confused. But in any event, having seen a copy of the agreement Im satisfied, on the 
balance of probabilities, this was signed by Mr R and can be relied upon.
The agreement, which Im satisfied was signed electronically by Mr R on 
11 March 2020 states, as pointed out by the investigator, that:
1.3 If you do not withdraw from this agreement within the 14 day period, this 
agreement will remain binding upon you until the end of this agreement or such time 
as it is terminated (if earlier).
2.7 You may repay all amounts payable by you under this agreement early, either in 
part or in full, by giving notice in person or in writing, either posted or handed in to 
[address], by telephone on [telephone number] or by e-mail at [email address] and by 
repaying the appropriate amount, which may include a rebate.
In response to the investigators view Mr R said that even if he was to accept that the 
dealership wouldnt have had the expertise to calculate the monthly interest on an 
agreement, it should understand the general structure of the agreement and what 
early settlement for a consumer might mean. 
Now I dont disagree with what Mr R says on this point, but Ive seen insufficient 
evidence to conclude that the dealership didnt understand the general structure of 
the agreement, or that it failed in any of its regulatory obligations in respect of it. And 
on this point, I would add that I would reiterate that I wouldnt expect the dealership to 
understand the cost to Mr R of settling the agreement early. Mr R says he relied on what the dealership told him about the cost of early settlement 
when deciding to enter into the agreement. Now I dont dispute what Mr R says on 
this point. But given what Mr R himself says the dealership told him I dont think that 
reliance was reasonable. In my view Mr R could and should have sought further 
clarification direct with Santander about the cost of early settlement before 
proceeding and especially given how important he says the cost of early settlement 
was to his decision to enter into the agreement.
So, with this in mind, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
hold Santander responsible for Mr Rs claimed loss in this case.
Mr R says that the agreement, or other documentation, makes no reference to the 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) regulations 2004 and the Consumer Credit 
(Settlement Information) Regulations 1983. These regulations set out the method of 
calculation of the early settlement rebate and the form and content of statements 
respectively. 
Now a business is obliged, where relevant, to follow these regulations. And for the 
avoidance of doubt Ive seen nothing to suggest they havent been followed by 
Santander here. But in response to Mr Rs specific point, I can confirm that there was 
no requirement for Santander to make reference to these regulations in the 
agreement, or the other information Mr R has provided our service.
Santander responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr R responded to say:
He had never seen a copy of the agreement until the investigator sent him a copy in 
July 202, after I had issued my provisional decision.
He understood he had been provided with a copy of what he had signed, but wasnt.
He should have been given a copy of the agreement but wasnt.
Failure to be provided with a copy of the agreement constitutes maladministration.
In the absence of a copy of the agreement he was unaware of his rights and 
obligations including, but not restricted to, terms 1.3 and 2.7.
Term 5 of the customer confirmation section of the agreement wasnt met.
Despite requesting the same, he has never been provided with a written statement 
showing the details of each repayment he has made as provided for under term 10 of 
the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R doesnt dispute he signed the agreement. So although he says he was never provided 
with a copy of it by the dealership or Santander, Im satisfied he agreed to be bound by its 
terms and that he can and should be bound by them. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr R makes a lot out of what he says was a failure on 
the part of the dealership and Santander to provide him with a copy of the agreement. Now 
given what I say above Im not persuaded this is material to the outcome of this complaint. 
But for the sake of completeness I would add that on the balance of probabilities Im not 
persuaded by Mr Rs submission in this respect.First I see no reason why either the dealership or Santander wouldnt have provided Mr R 
with a copy of the agreement. Secondly, based on what Mr R has said and submitted, Im 
simply not persuaded that he would have entered into the agreement without being in 
possession of a copy of it, or entered into it without, very shortly afterwards, insisting that he 
be provided with a copy of it.
Mr R says term 5 of the customer confirmation section of the agreement wasnt met. That is 
he wasnt given a verbal explanation of the agreement including the features that may have 
made the credit unsuitable. But Ive nothing further to add to what Ive already said in my 
provisional decision on this point.
Also, in response to my provisional decision, Mr R says he has never been provided with a 
statement of account in the format provided for under term 10. However, I dont think any 
failure on the part of Santander in this respect is material to the outcome of this complaint, or 
that such a failure (if one occurred) warrants, in itself, an award of compensation. But I would 
add that Mr R is free to request a statement provided for under term 10 from Santander 
again and if he isnt provided with one he is free to raise this as a a new and separate 
complaint.
Given what I say above, I can confirm I see no good reason to depart from my provisional 
findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman