DRN-3989622
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin (Darwin) dealt
with a claim he made under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was involved in an incident with another car on 17 July 2022. He reported the incident
to his insurer, Darwin. His car was driveable.
Darwin arranged for Mr Ms car to be collected and assessed for repairs. On 18 July 2022 Mr
M discussed things with the approved repairer (AR). Mr M said he wanted an automatic
courtesy car while repairs were being done as he hadnt driven a manual car for over a
decade.
The AR explained that there was reduced availability for automatic cars and priority was
given to customers who held an automatic licence only. Mr M held a manual licence and so
the AR explained that it wasnt obliged to provide Mr M with an automatic courtesy car. A
manual courtesy car was available, but Mr M didnt want a manual car.
It was agreed that the AR would call Mr M back two days later before it came to collect his
car - to let him know if an automatic car was available as it was hopeful it might be. Mr M
said that if it wasnt, he would wait until one was available before having his car repaired.
Two days later the AR called Mr M as agreed. But unfortunately it advised that an automatic
car wasnt available. So Mr M kept his car and called Darwin to discuss what options were
available to him - including if he decided to hire an automatic courtesy car.
In July and August 2022 Mr M complained to Darwin. He was unhappy with the increase in
premium when he changed address. He said the AR didnt contact him with any updates 
after 20 July 2022 and so his car still hadnt been repaired. So by 28 July 2022 Mr M said he 
would use his preferred garage for repairs. He said hed driven 50 miles to another garage to 
obtain an estimate and provided this to Darwin twice, but it had done nothing with it. He said 
Darwin had failed to progress his claim and ignored his emails. He said all courtesy cars 
should be automatic.
In September 2022 Darwin upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. It said it had failed to answer
his emails. It said it had failed to log his complaint. For this it paid Mr M £175 compensation.
Darwin didnt uphold the remaining complaints. It said that the policy doesnt require it to
provide an automatic courtesy car, but a basic hatchback while repairs are being carried out.
Darwin said as it offered Mr M a courtesy car in line with the policy, it had acted correctly.
It said it had chased the third party insurer (TPI) for its stance on liability and was waiting
their reply. It explained that as it didnt yet have claim costs to chase for, it was limited on
what it could do other than chase the TPI.
Darwin said the increase in premium it had charged for his change of address was correct.
Mr M remained unhappy. He said Darwin had underplayed his complaint and not properly
addressed his concerns. He didnt agree it was fair he was paying more for insurance when
hed moved to a safer place.
He said Darwin couldnt rely on the courtesy car term as a reason why it didnt offer an
automatic as the term doesnt specify this. He said it was unreasonable that he didnt hear
again from the AR for a week which led to his complaint on 28 July 2022. He was unhappy
that the AR advised him Darwin instructed it to cease services on 28 July 2022. Although he
said he didnt want to use the AR at this point, Mr M said Darwin did nothing to advise him of
the next steps. He was unhappy he hadnt been given access to legal protection to claim for
uninsured losses despite his requests.
In response, Darwin provided Mr M with details of his motor legal protection cover. It said it
had nothing new to add to the reply to his complaint.
In September 2022 Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted us to listen to the call
he had with the AR on 18 July 2022 where the courtesy car was discussed. He said he
made it clear he wouldnt use the AR if the courtesy car offered was a manual one.
To put things right, Mr M said he wanted the repairs approved so that he could get his car
repaired. He wanted £900 compensation including the excess of £600. He said he had
incurred costs in having to travel to a garage to obtain an estimate. He didnt think it fair to
pay the excess of £600 as this would give Darwin no incentive to obtain fault for the incident
from the TPI.
Mr M said Darwin should have written to him to advise of next steps. Hed provided Darwin
with an estimate but he hadnt heard anything since. This is why it has no claim costs to
chase the TPI for, as it hadnt approved the estimate for Mr M to have his car repaired. 
In October 2022 Darwin told us the TPI was waiting for a report from its insured customer.
So the TPI hadnt yet accepted fault for the incident.
In October 2022 Mr M told us he cannot afford the £600 excess. He said the gap where he 
didnt hear from the AR was unacceptable.
In December 2022 the Investigator issued her first view. She didnt recommend the
complaint should be upheld. She thought Darwin had done enough to resolve it when it paid
£175 compensation.
Mr M didnt agree. He pointed out that his complaint about Darwins failure to approve
repairs and advise him of next steps hadnt been addressed.
In February 2023 the Investigator issued a further view. She found that Darwin had
authorised the repairs with Mr Ms preferred garage on 13 September 2022. As Mr M wasnt 
using an AR, she thought it was for the preferred garage to have contacted Mr M to make
arrangements for the repairs to be done. But she said it was also clear from Mr Ms
communication that Darwin should have explained the next steps to Mr M. It should have
been actively progressing Mr Ms claim and keeping him updated.
The Investigator recommended Darwin should ensure the repairs are booked in with Mr Ms
chosen garage and that it should pay Mr M £200 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience its delay and lack of updates had caused.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.I asked the Investigator to request some more information from both parties.
Mr M told us that his car was driveable and he drove it until his car was repaired by his 
preferred garage in February 2023.
He provided a copy of an invoice showing he paid a loan vehicle insurance fee of £150 for
the period 14 February 2023 to 2 March 2023.
Mr M said hes just been charged an extra premium by his new insurers because this claim
is still open. And they have increased the excess under his policy. Mr M says this is unfair as
the incident wasnt his fault and he is further out of pocket because of Darwins failings.
He said he hasnt cashed the £175 compensation cheque from Darwin.
Darwin provided a copy of a letter from the TPI dated 8 December 2022. In this letter they
said they will accept Darwins claim on behalf of Mr M on a Without Prejudice basis. So
Darwin said it is treating Mr Ms claim as a non-fault claim. It said its waiting for the preferred
garage to send it a copy of its invoice for the completed repairs.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease, Ive set out the complaints under headings below.
The AR failed to update Mr M when an automatic courtesy car would be available.
I understand Mr M is upset that the AR didnt update him for a week. He said the AR agreed
to call him once an automatic courtesy car would become available.
Ive been provided with some call recordings. In the absence of other call recordings, I have
considered Mr Ms account and Darwins notes.
The AR made the following note on 20 July 2022. It reads:
I have spoken to the ph (policyholder)and they have confirmed they are only able to
drive an automatic cc. I have confirmed once we have an automatic vehicle we will
call and arrange to collect the vehicle.
So from both Mr M and the ARs accounts, until there was an available automatic courtesy
car available, there was no update to give Mr M.
I understand Mr M is upset that he didnt hear from the AR for a week and this prompted his
complaint on 28 July 2022. Ive listened to the call between Mr M and the AR at 10.19am on
18 July 2022. In summary Mr M wanted an automatic courtesy car as he hadnt driven a
manual car for over a decade. So unless an automatic courtesy car was available, Mr M said
there was no point in collecting his car for repair. The AR explained that it was under no
obligation to provide Mr M with an automatic car, but it would do its best to provide one. It
said it would call Mr M on 20 July 2022 to tell him if it had an automatic courtesy car, which it
did. Unfortunately the AR didnt have an available automatic courtesy car and so as agreed it
didnt collect Mr Ms car for repair. This prompted Mr M to contact Darwin later that day and
its provided a recording of that call.
In this call Mr M asked what his options were. He said the accident wasnt his fault but right
now the other party hasnt admitted liability. He said he couldnt afford to get a (hire) carhimself but asked if he could get the money back if he did due to the incident not being his
fault.
The agent explained that it wasnt a guarantee for the AR to provide an automatic courtesy
car where Mr M held a manual driving licence. He said Mr M had motor legal expenses
cover, so if Mr M were to get in touch with a solicitor under this cover, he could potentially
reclaim back the costs of hiring an automatic car as an uninsured loss. But the agent
explained that it depends on liability being admitted under the claim. He said the alternative
was to wait until the AR had an automatic car available.
Mr M agreed and said the AR had made that clear. But he said that meant the only option
left was for him was to drive his car which had been damaged.
The agent concluded that Mr M could either accept the manual courtesy car offered or wait
for an automatic - or arrange his own transport and look to reclaim that back from the TPI
through his legal expenses insurer. The agent confirmed Darwin was waiting to hear from
the TPI as to liability. The agent explained that he couldnt answer if the TPI would cover car
hire costs for an automatic car when a manual car was available, as Mr M had a manual
licence. He said Mr M would have a stronger argument if he held an automatic licence.
Mr M concluded that he had what he needed and the call ended.
I can understand Mr Ms disappointment that an automatic car wasnt available - but as the
agent and the AR explained, the policy didnt say it would provide one. Like most standard
motor insurance policies Ive seen, Darwin provides a basic courtesy car during repairs and
doesnt define that it will be a manual or automatic. And I can understand that an AR will
prioritise providing an automatic courtesy car to customers who hold an automatic licence.
So I cant safely conclude that the AR or Darwin acted unreasonably in not updating Mr M for
a week where no automatic courtesy car was available. While I understand Mr M didnt want
to wait and didnt want to drive a manual car - this doesnt mean Darwin acted unreasonably 
here. Mr Ms policy with Darwin didnt say it would provide an automatic courtesy car.
On 28 July 2022 Mr M said he didnt want to use the services of the AR. I realise this was
because he was unhappy with the fact he hadnt been updated and hadnt been given an
automatic courtesy car. But as Mr M was offered a manual courtesy car, I dont think Darwin
is responsible for any car hire or associated costs Mr M paid for using his preferred garage
for repairs. Mr Ms policy with Darwin says it will not cover the costs of a courtesy car while
using a non-AR. Mr M may wish to contact his legal expenses provider to see if its possible
to claim the associated costs as uninsured losses.
Darwin failed to action the repair estimate
From Darwins business file, it shows that on 31 July 2022 it referred the estimate Mr M
provided to an engineer for authorisation. In February 2023 Darwin provided us with a copy
of a reply email from its engineer. The engineer said they authorised the repairs on 13
September 2022 with Mr Ms preferred garage. It provided a screenshot of its internal note
showing the engineer replied by email to the preferred garage saying:
Any problems once stripped let me know.
Even so, Darwin replied to Mr Ms complaint on 16 September 2022 and failed to mention
this under next steps to Mr M - despite acknowledging that it had ignored his email
messages and estimate. And when Mr M reiterated this part of his complaint in response,
Darwin didnt provide a meaningful update on this point on 21 September 2022. So Mr M
was left with the impression that Darwin had taken no action with the estimate.Its entirely reasonable for a customer to expect their claim to be actively progressed by their 
insurer and to be kept updated. In this case, I think Darwin failed to follow up with the repairs 
to Mr Ms car after authorisation. So I can completely understand Mr Ms frustration here. I 
think Darwin provided a very poor service in failing to assist Mr M with getting his car 
repaired. 
For Darwins failing here, I think it should pay Mr M compensation of £200. I think Darwin
caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience in failing to let Mr M know it had authorised
repairs in September 2022.
Darwin unfairly charged a higher premium when Mr M changed address
Where there is a change in risk like a change of address, an insurer is entitled to reassess
the risk and charge an additional premium if its underwriting criteria dictates this. Every 
insurer has a different risk appetite and so the price they charge is a commercial decision 
they make, which we cannot interfere with. This is why we see such a difference in 
premiums when we look for insurance prices on comparison websites using the same 
information.
Mr M has raised new complaints about the service he received from Darwin after his
complaints in July and August 2022. I cannot consider these in my decision as these are
separate to the complaints Darwin replied to on 16 September 2022.
If Mr M wishes to raise new complaints with Darwin, he can. And if he is unhappy with their
response, he can ask us to look at things for him under a new complaint, subject to the
Financial Conduct Authoritys rules and timescales on complaints handling and our
jurisdiction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U
K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin to pay Mr M £200 compensation in addition to the
£175 its already paid for the distress and inconvenience it caused by its delay and poor
service. If Mr M hasnt cashed his cheque for £175 and accepts my decision, Darwin can 
cancel that cheque and issue a new payment for a total compensation award of £375.
U K Insurance Limited  trading as Darwin must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the £200 compensation amount from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If U K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman