DRN-2897601
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complain that American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG) declined their claim for business interruption. Mr B, a director of T, brings the 
complaint on Ts behalf. 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
This had a significant impact on Ts business as they were forced to close during various 
periods of lockdown. 
T held a business insurance policy with AIG. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But AIG declined it. It said the policy primarily covered T for business 
interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered damage by the 
policy definition. 
It said there was cover for the occurrence of certain diseases at Ts premises. But Covid-19 
wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered. T brought their complaint to us, but 
our investigator thought the terms had been applied fairly. T disagreed, so Ive been asked 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on T had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether there are 
any sections that would require AIG to meet their claim. 
In the first instance, the burden of proof is on T to show, on balance, that theyve suffered a 
loss their policy covers. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed those 
sections most relevant to Ts circumstances below.
Damage 
Both the core business interruption cover in Ts policy, and a number of the extensions to 
this cover (including the extension for Prevention of Access) are based on an interruption to 
the business which has been caused by damage.
Damage is defined in the policy as physical loss or destruction of or physical damage to 
tangible property. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19, or the Governments 
response to it, resulted in damage of this nature to the types of property mentioned in the 
core business interruption cover and the extensions requiring damage.   
As such, Im satisfied theres no cover for Ts claim under either the core business 
interruption cover, or any of the extensions that rely on there having been damage 
(including the Prevention of Access extension). 
Specified Disease
This extension covers T for:
Loss arising from restrictions on the use of the premises on the order or advice of 
the competent local authority due to:
i) any occurrence of a specified disease at the premises or attributable to food 
or drink supplied from the premises
ii) any discovery of an organism at the premises likely to result in the occurrence 
of a specified disease
The term specified disease is defined within the policy to mean:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
Acute Encephalitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipelas, 
Food or Drink Poisoning, Legionellosis, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, 
Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid Fever, Plague (bubonic, pneumonic, septicaemic), Poliomyelitis, 
Puerperal Fever, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Toxoplasmosis, 
Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Typhus, Viral Haemorraghic Fever, Viral Hepatitis 
(types A, B & C), Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever.
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in this list, Im satisfied this 
extension of the policy wouldnt cover the business interruption caused as a result of the 
restrictions introduced by the Government to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something AIG might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. 
In contrast, Ts policy includes a list of notifiable diseases at a particular time. And theres 
nothing in the policy which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, 
including any new diseases which emerge, and / or that become notifiable at a later date. 
Overall, Im satisfied the list has the purpose and effect of limiting cover to occurrences of 
those diseases mentioned in the list. 
In any event, T havent, to my knowledge, argued that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 
at their premises, or attributable to food or drink supplied from their premises, or that there 
was a discovery of an organism at the premises likely to result in an occurrence of Covid-19. 
So, even if Covid-19 was included in the list, there would still be no cover for Ts claim. 
T have referred to the test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority. But this only 
affected claims made under non-damage business interruption cover. And it didnt seek to 
resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of diseases which 
does not include Covid-19, as is the case here. Whilst I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to T, I havent found that any 
sections of their policy require AIG to cover their claim. So, I wont be asking AIG to do 
anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman