DRN-4113037
The complaint
On behalf of his business (C) Mr B says that in 2022 One Sure Insurance Limited mis-sold 
a motor traders policy for C, which was later cancelled by the insurer.
What happened
Mr B had bought policies to cover Cs vehicles through One Sure since 2015. In March 2021 
One Sure recommended that Cs business should be placed with insurer M. The policy ran 
its term and renewed in March 2022. Shortly afterwards, insurer M cancelled the new policy, 
as it said it hadnt received the evidence it required of Cs trading since renewal. Mr B has 
made a separate complaint about what he thinks was a mis-sale of the policy by One Sure in 
2021, but this complaint relates to the sale in 2022 and its aftermath.
Initially, insurer M agreed to offer a policy to C in March 2022 based on Cs advertising of the 
three cars it owned (during the previous year, there were no sales as evidence of trading). 
Mr B then provided evidence to One Sure of a sale for £4,700 in April 2022. But One Sure 
told him in June 2022 that insurer M required five more sales within two weeks, or the policy 
would be cancelled. That requirement far exceeded Cs projected annual trading. So Mr B 
concluded that One Sure had mis-sold the policy, as it wasnt suitable for C.  
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He said One Sure had a duty to provide 
information abut the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. In his opinion, One Sure 
had done that. He noted that in a call between One Sure and Mr B before the policy started, 
an advisor told Mr B that insurer M would need to see evidence of active trading within three 
months of the policys start, or it may be cancelled. He said One Sure had also offered Mr B 
the option of a policy for C with an insurer that wasnt going to monitor its trading closely. But 
Mr B had chosen to stay with insurer Ms cheaper policy. 
In response, Mr B said he had no reason to think insurer Ms policy wasnt suitable for C. It 
had agreed to allow the policy to start in 2022 based on Cs advertising in 2021, and One 
Sure hadnt told him insurer M expected a level of trading greater than Cs normal trading 
target. He also said that, had a claim arisen in 2022, insurer M wouldnt have covered it, 
given Cs trading level, so he thought the premium for the year should be returned. 
As the investigators view didnt change, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued 
a provisional decision, partly upholding it, as follows: 
Although all the information provided by Mr B is on the file  and Ive reviewed it  I dont 
intend to comment on every point he has made. Ill concentrate on what I think are the 
central issues and the major points made by Mr B and by One Sure.
The sale in 2022 was an advised sale, as One Sure recommended insurer Ms policy to Mr 
B, so it had a duty to ensure that the policy was suitable for Cs needs. I think it did so. 
Insurer M had raised no concerns about Cs level of trading during 2021 (when no sales 
were concluded) but the business file shows it had reservations about providing cover in 
2022. It agreed to do so based on the evidence Mr B supplied of the advertising of Cs three 
cars. But it told One Sure it would be monitoring the situation and that it would need to see 
evidence of active trading within three months, or cancellation may follow. 
One Sure passed that information to Mr B and asked if he was confident hed be trading 
within three months. It also offered him another policy and told him the other insurer wouldnt 
be monitoring Cs trading activity in the way insurer M had said it would be doing. But as the 
other policy was more expensive  and Mr B was confident of Cs trading activity within the 
next few months  he chose to stay with insurer M.
Mr B provided evidence to One Sure of a sale in April 2022. He expected that evidence 
would satisfy insurer Ms request for proof of trading. And the amount of the sale (at £4,700) 
was just short of insurer Ms acceptable limit for a businesss annual sales (£10,000). 
Despite that, One Sure told Mr B by text on 13 June 2022 that insurer M wanted six proof of 
trading very shortly, or the policy would be cancelled. It also told insurer M on the same day 
that it had asked Mr B to supply evidence of trading. 
Theres nothing in the file to show that there was a request for six sales from insurer M, and 
although we asked One Sure to provide evidence of it, it hasnt done so. Theres also 
nothing on the file to show that One Sure passed Cs proof of trading in April 2022 to insurer 
M. It may have done so (in which case its not clear why insurer M didnt accept it) but Ive 
seen no evidence of it. And the message it sent to insurer M on 13 June 2022 could be 
interpreted as Mr B not having provided any proof of trading up to that point.
When Mr B complained to insurer M about the cancellation, it said it had required evidence 
of trading to be provided  and that despite several requests, that didnt happen. It didnt say 
that evidence of trading was provided but was insufficient. In my opinion, that also points to 
insurer M not having received any proof of Cs trading. In addition, theres an email on the 
file from one of One Sures senior advisors that says insurer M doesnt have a minimum 
criteria for the number of cars to be sold each year. If thats the case I cant see why it would 
have asked for six proofs of sale at all, let alone within three months of the policys renewal. 
I think Mr B assumed the policy was cancelled because insurer M required proof of a 
turnover that was far greater than Cs expected turnover. He thinks One Sure failed to check 
that his projected level of trading was acceptable to insurer M, therefore it mis-sold the 
policy. But I dont think thats the case. One Sure knew insurer Ms minimum expected 
annual turnover was less than Cs expected annual turnover. Its only concern at renewal in 
2022 was that C would be able to show evidence of trading within three months. One Sure 
couldnt be certain of that, so it offered C an alternative policy. 
Although C had made a good sale in April 2022  so there should have been no problem 
with the policy proceeding as normal  something went wrong. In my opinion, whats most 
likely to have happened is that One Sure made an error. Despite a specific request from us, 
it hasnt shown that it provided the insurer with the proof of trading Mr B supplied in April 
2022 (or that insurer M required proof of six sales). And the insurer said it made several 
requests for proof of trading and didnt get it. If One Sure can provide evidence on these 
points in response to this decision, then it may be that the insurer was at fault. Either way, I 
dont think the available evidence supports Mr Bs view of what happened. 
I understand why Mr B is so frustrated about the situation, as C has been inconvenienced as 
well as facing cancellation charges. I dont think a refund of the premium is due, as whilst the 
policy was in place, C benefitted from the cover. And I dont think One Sure mis-sold the 
policy in 2022. In my opinion, it gave Mr B the facts about insurer Ms policy and was aware 
of its expectations. It also offered an alternative policy that it thought was in Cs best 
interests, which Mr B decided not to accept.
If One Sure cant show that it provided Cs proof of trading in April 2022 to insurer M, Im minded to conclude that it would be fair and reasonable to hold it at fault for the policys 
cancellation. In that case it would be for One Sure to pay or refund the cancellation charges, 
and to pay compensation to Mr B for the inconvenience caused to his business. Mr B spent 
a lot of time dealing with the cancellation and the issues leading to it than would have been 
better spent on promoting Cs interests. Provisionally, I think One Sure should also write to 
Mr B to say the cancellation of Cs policy was due to its error, for future insurance purposes.      
Mr B accepted my provisional findings. He said he hadnt paid any cancellation charges and 
that he still thought his premiums should be returned, as he still thinks any claim made by C 
in 2022 wouldnt have been paid. He also pointed out that the sale he made within three 
months of the start of the policy reflected an annual turnover for C of £18,800 - which was 
well in excess of insurer Ms £10,000 trading requirement.
One Sure said Mr B was told at renewal that insurer M would require proof of trading within 
three months. It said the proof of trading he provided in reply to its request in June 2022 was 
the one from April 2022, but that hed been told at renewal he had to provide ..full 
evidence of trading within three months. One Sure said it was clear Mr B wasnt trading, 
but he was given a couple of weeks in June 2022 to provide evidence. It also said it 
disagreed that hed spent time dealing with the cancellation. In its view he failed to do what 
he was asked to do at renewal in that he didnt show he met the insurers criteria. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think One Sure should be required to return the 
sum Mr B paid in premiums. I think C had the benefit of the insurance provided by the policy 
 and theres nothing to show that had he made a claim, it wouldnt have been covered.
One Sure still hasnt provided any evidence of passing on the evidence Mr B supplied of the 
sale in April 2022 to the insurer (nor evidence that it required six sales by June 2022). I think 
thats a serious omission given the circumstances of the cancellation. 
At renewal, Mr B was told only that insurer M wanted to see proof of trading within three 
months - and he provided it to One Sure within that time. So I think he did what he was 
asked to do. One Sure pointed to an email from Mr B in June 2022 that it said showed he 
wasnt trading as expected. In the email, Mr B referred to the sale in April 2022 and said he 
hoped to sell at least one of the other two cars owned at the time by C. He said he wouldnt 
be buying more cars for C until his move to another part of the UK was completed. I dont 
think that shows he wasnt trading. I think it shows he fully intended to continue trading. 
As One Sure didnt provide the extra evidence requested, I can only base my decision on the 
evidence it and Mr B have provided. In its cancellation notice on 13 June 2022 One Sure 
said Mr B had had since 2 March 2022 (the start of the policy) to provide evidence of trading, 
but it had yet to be received. I think the evidence shows that wasnt correct. Ive also taken 
into account that insurer M didnt tell Mr B that it had received insufficient proof of trading 
from him - and that it didnt require a set number of annual sales. So Im still of the view that 
its more likely than not that One Sure made an error in communicating with insurer M.
In order to put matters right, I think One Sure should pay any cancellation charge and write 
to Mr B to say that the cancellation of Cs policy was due to its error. I think Mr B was 
inconvenienced before and after the cancellation. He had to spend time querying the issue, 
complaining to One Sure (and to insurer M) and finding alternative cover. As Mr B runs Cs 
business, I think the time diverted away from dealing with its business impacted on C. So I think its fair for One Sure to pay compensation for that.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require One Sure Insurance Limited 
to write to Mr B to say the cancellation of Cs policy was due to its error. It should also pay 
any cancellation charges and pay Mr B for C £250 compensation for the inconvenience to C.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman