DRN-2372427
The complaint
Ms C complains that Equifax Limited recorded information about a third party on her credit 
report. 
What happened
Ms C uses a service which gives her access to data that Equifax holds on her. In 2020, Ms C 
discovered that her credit report contained information about someone else that she knew. 
Ms C was concerned that there had been a data breach. She says this caused her a great 
deal of anxiety and stress. Ms C says she was declined offers of credit as a result of the 
additional information appearing on her report.
To make things clear in my decision, I will refer to the original third party as TP1. This is 
because another third party is also involved so I will refer to them as TP2.
Equifax apologised and explained that a mistake had been made by its data matching 
system because of the similarities between some of Ms C and TP1s data. Equifax loaded a 
notice of disassociation to help remove the information from Ms Cs credit report and offered 
to pay £150.
The investigator didnt recommend that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that since Ms C complained to Equifax it had removed the entries relating to TP1 
from Ms Cs credit report. 
The investigator said that we would need to see evidence that Ms C had been declined 
credit as a result of TP1s information appearing on her credit report. Overall, the investigator 
thought Equifaxs offer to pay £150 compensation was fair.
Ms C is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. She doesnt consider £150 
adequately reflects the impact that this has had on her. Ms C says her credit report still isnt 
up to date. Ms C points out that TP1 has sent TP2 messages alleging fraudulent activity 
concerning a loan application involving Ms C and TP2 which has appeared on TP2s credit 
report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Ms Cs concern when she found financial and personal data relating to TP1 
on her credit report. Equifax already agreed that this was a mistake due to its data matching 
system. So, I need to consider the impact this mistake had on Ms C and whether Equifax 
has offered and done enough to put things right.
Ms C says that she had credit applications declined as a result of TP1s information 
appearing on her credit report. But lenders take account of several factors when deciding 
whether to lend. So, I dont have enough evidence to conclude that any credit applications 
Ms C made were declined solely because of the information on her record about TP1. This 
means I cant fairly require Equifax to pay further compensation.
Im satisfied that Equifax acted fairly by investigating Ms Cs complaint and issuing notices of 
disassociation. I appreciate that the personal circumstances of Ms Cs relationship with TP1 
has made the situation even more upsetting for Ms C. But I agree with the investigator that 
Equifaxs offer to pay £150 compensation is reasonable. I dont require it to do more.
Ms C has told us that some information about her and TP2 has appeared on the credit report 
of TP1. And that this has caused further upset to Ms C. I can see from evidence that Ms C 
has provided that TP1 received an alert about a financial association with TP2. I am 
sympathetic to Ms C but I dont have enough evidence to conclude that Ms Cs personal 
data appears on TP1s credit report. This means it doesnt change my decision. 
Finally, I appreciate that Ms C says her credit report is still not up to date as it doesnt show 
certain financial information. But as the investigator explained, Ms C hasnt updated her 
current address with the service she uses to access her Equifax credit report. This might 
help explain why certain information doesnt yet appear. Clearly if Ms C updates her address 
and there are problems in the future, she would be able to bring a fresh complaint.
I leave it to Ms C to decide whether she wants to accept Equifaxs offer.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman