DRN-4472012
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sent copies of her bank statements to different 
persons including her ex-partner, causing her severe emotional distress.
What happened
A request was made at a branch of Lloyds on 2 November 2022 by Ms Cs ex-partner for 
copies of bank statements relating to an account which had been in joint names up until 
February 2018. The request was for statements relating to that account when it had been in 
joint names. Because the colleague in branch inputted the sort code and account number, 
the first batches of statements went out with a covering letter to Ms Cs address. But further 
batches of statements went out without a covering letter and were received by a neighbour 
(because an incorrect address was input manually) and by Ms Cs mother as it was her 
former address, and by Miss C's ex-partner. The error was compounded because it included 
statements relating to the time after 2018 when the account was in Ms Cs sole name. Ms C 
is currently going through divorce proceedings.
Ms C went into the branch of Lloyds and raised a complaint to the manager who initially 
refused to believe her. Unfortunately at that stage, the complaint wasnt taken further. Lloyds 
subsequently carried out a full review of the circumstances and offered Ms C £2,000 
compensation and to consider any additional legal costs she had incurred as a result of the 
matter. It also set out that it had reviewed the processes involved in sending out information 
by post. It further advised Ms C that as this was a breach of its obligations concerning data 
protection, it had reported the matter to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that in considering 
the impact of the error on Ms C, Lloyds offer of compensation was fair and reasonable.
Ms C did not agree. She pointed out that:
Her ex-partner was incredibly controlling and questioned her and examined statements 
on everything she spent money on. So when they separated having complete financial 
independence was a joy and so important to her. So knowing that her ex-partner had 
access to her bank accounts after they separated felt like the biggest invasion of privacy. 
The emotional impact on her was really severe, they were in the middle of financial 
disclosure in the divorce proceedings which her ex-partner then stopped complying with 
at all.
She suffered health issues and was signed off work by her GP, resulting in her having to 
use up some of her annual leave.
She has tried to explain that her legal costs as a result are impossible to quantify  she 
cant prove that her ex-partner stopped complying with financial disclosure because of 
this. She believes her ex-partner is still trying to use all means possible to cause a 
disruptive impact on her life including deliberately driving up her legal fees.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Lloyds should increase the 
compensation paid to £3,000.
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings.
Ms C acknowledged my provisional decision but has not responded substantively to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below, in italics:
As an initial point, Ive noted that in her response to the Investigators view Ms C mentions 
how the investigation was handled when Ms C referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I understand that the Investigator has spoken to her concerning this, 
so I wont address that point any further.
I have considered in full her detailed statement which I have taken into account in making 
this decision.
Lloyds very clearly made a number of serious errors which resulted in it releasing bank 
statements to previous addresses, a neighbours address, and most seriously to Ms Cs ex-
 partner. This was compounded by its error in not initially believing her when she visited the 
branch and then in not taking the complaint forward. I've noted that Lloyds has carried out a 
review of this process so that the error in posting out statements without covering letters 
doesn't happen again. I have further noted that Lloyds has made a report to the ICO. I'm 
aware that Ms C is considering taking that matter further. That is a matter for her - she is 
also free to report the matter to the ICO herself, although the ICO does not award 
compensation to consumers.
I have to assess the impact on Ms C as a result of this error. And I accept that it has caused 
her severe emotional distress. Whilst we do not know if her ex-partner actually looked at the 
at the information, I don't doubt that the thought that her ex-partner might know about her 
regular spending was very upsetting for her. Lloyds has offered £2,000. As our Investigator 
has advised Ms C, an award of over £1,500 and up to around £5,000 is appropriate where 
the businesss mistakes caused sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, or 
severe disruption to daily life typically lasting more than a year.
I think the impact on Ms C is more about what might happen as a result of her ex-partner 
being in receipt of the information on her bank statements, rather than what has happened. 
As she had said, it's really not possible to say that her ex-partners stopping complying with 
financial disclosure is because of the release of those statements, but it is an added anxiety 
for her. I understand that some of the statements have been returned to her but we don't 
know whether her ex-partner has looked at or used any of the information in the statements. 
I note that Ms C says she has incurred a financial loss because of having to take part of her 
annual leave as sickness. As she is clearly going through distressing divorce proceedings, 
I can't say whether the full impact on her health is solely as a result of the release of the 
statements. It is clearly a factor though difficult to quantify. I understand that Lloyds has 
offered to consider any increase in her legal costs, but I also appreciate that this may not be 
possible to quantify. I can't award compensation for what might happen, but I have reviewed 
the amount offered taking into account the additional information Ms C has supplied to us. 
I think that Lloyds should increase the compensation award to £3,000. This takes into 
account her anxiety about possible financial losses due to her being signed off sick. It also 
takes into account the additional emotional distress that Ms C must clearly have experienced 
because she felt that her ex-partner might be using the information contained in the bank statements to increase her legal costs.
Having said that, and whilst I understand that it might not be possible to quantify them, 
Lloyds should still keep to its offer to consider any additional legal costs Ms C has incurred 
because of its errors. Regrettably I can't tell her solicitor how to quantify such costs, but they 
may be able to point to any costs involved in advising Ms C about the issue of the bank 
statements being made available to her ex-partner.
As neither party has made any substantive comments on my provisional findings, those 
findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Ms C £3,000 compensation.
It should also consider payment of any additional legal costs that Ms C has incurred because 
of its errors.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman