DRN-3394387
The complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) charged interest 
on his credit card during an agreed payment holiday, which he believes they shouldnt have.
What happened
Mr W has a credit card account with AESEL. In or around March 2020, Mr W contacted 
AESEL for support under their credit relief programme as his income had been impacted by 
the global pandemic. AESEL agreed to Mr Ws request and as part of their agreement, 
interest accruing during March, April and May 2020 was either refunded or waived.
Mr W contacted AESEL again in early June 2020. He said his financial situation hadnt 
improved and asked AESEL to extend their credit relief programme to him again for a further 
period. AESEL agreed to Mr Ws request and extended this for June, July and August 2020.
Towards the end of June, Mr W received his statement from AESEL. It showed theyd 
applied interest to his account. He then received a text message from AESEL advising that a 
payment was due, and the offer had finished. So, he called AESEL to find out what had gone 
wrong as he thought AESEL had agreed a further period under their credit relief programme. 
This had previously included a waiver of his interest. So, he thought the extension also 
included this.
AESEL said the relief programme had expired and Mr Ws account was now showing that 
interest was being applied. As Mr W didnt think this was right, AESEL agreed to investigate 
matters and return to him. They wanted to listen to his previous calls to ascertain what hed 
been told. The matter was escalated as a complaint.
In September 2020, AESEL wrote to Mr W. They didnt think theyd made a mistake. They 
said that when he called to extend the credit relief programme, he wasnt told that interest 
would be waived or refunded. They said that credit relief was extended under guidelines 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This meant that interest would be applied 
as normal.
Mr W wasnt happy with AESELs response. So, he referred matters to this service. One of 
our adjudicators investigated Mr Ws complaint. The adjudicator thought that AESEL hadnt 
acted fairly. They didnt think AESEL had made it clear that the extended credit relief 
programme differed from what was previously provided to Mr W. Our adjudicator thought 
AESEL should refund interest on Mr Ws June statement together with any relevant interest 
and charges, remove any related adverse information from Mr Ws credit file and pay £50 
compensation for unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
AESEL accepted our adjudicators recommendations. But Mr W didnt agree. He thought 
AESEL should refund interest subsequently incurred totalling £1,581.08.
As an agreement couldnt be reached Mr Ws complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our adjudicator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 25 February 2022  giving both Mr W and AESEL the opportunity to 
respond to my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 
which explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional 
circumstances arising out of the global pandemic. It asked businesses to consider 
payment deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the 
pandemic. The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative 
impact on the consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
The FCA said firms would be entitled to charge a reasonable rate of interest where a 
customer requests a temporary payment freeze.
Mr Ws original request to AESEL pre-dated the FCAs guidance. So, the credit relief 
programme offered to him was bespoke to AESEL. I believe theyd developed this in 
anticipation of the FCAs guidance. The programme meant Mr W didnt need to make 
minimum payments and AESEL agreed to waive or refund interest for the period 
agreed.
When Mr W called AESEL again in early June 2020, they verbally agreed to extend 
this agreement for him. Ive been provided with a transcript of that call. Mr W asked 
for the existing arrangement to be extended. AESEL agreed to this. But they made 
no mention of any changes to the previous agreement. AESEL agree that both Mr W 
and their agent were silent on the subject of interest. So, they believe no agreement 
was given to waive or refund it. Whilst I agree interest wasnt mentioned. But I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Mr W to conclude the previous terms remained 
unchanged.
AESEL have said that after the FCAs guidance was issued, they amended their 
programme to reflect those requirements. This meant that although payments would 
be deferred, interest would still accrue. So, these new terms would apply to any 
subsequent agreements, which included the extension requested by Mr W. I believe 
AESEL were entitled to make those changes to their agreement. But I cant see they 
told Mr W about the changes when they agreed to the extension. Our adjudicator 
asked AESEL to provide copies of any correspondence sent to Mr W confirming the 
agreements and their terms. AESEL havent provided this information.
As I cant find that AESEL had clearly told Mr W about the agreement changes, I 
dont think it was fair for them to charge interest when they hadnt done previously. 
So, I agree with Mr W that AESEL should refund interest theyve charged. But, I do 
think AESEL shouldve been able to charge interest once theyd corrected their 
mistake and explained the changes to Mr W.  
Ive seen a transcript of Mr Ws call to AESEL at the end of June, when he 
questioned the interest applied to his statement and the text message hed received. 
Again, I cant see that ASESEL expressly told Mr W that the new extended 
agreement had changed so that interest would be applied. They told Mr W theyd 
investigate and listen to a recording of the call he made to them.
From the information provided, the first time I can see Mr W was specifically told of 
the agreement changes was in AESELs written response to Mr Ws complaint. This 
wasnt until mid-September 2020. Based upon this, I dont think it would be fair for 
AESEL to charge any interest under the payment relief agreement at all, as it expired 
in August 2020 - before AESELs letter.
To put things right, I think AESEL should refund any interest charged for the period, 
together with any compound interest (i.e. interest on interest thats resulted since). Mr 
Ws credit file should also be updated to reflect the resultant new balances and 
AESEL should ensure any adverse information reported, because of this, is removed. I also appreciate that Mr Ws experience has been both distressing and inconvenient 
for him requiring multiple calls and correspondence in an attempt to resolve matters. 
So, I shall be reflecting this in my award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Mr W has accepted my provisional decision. But theres been no response from AESEL, 
despite our adjudicator following up my provisional decision with them on 17 March 2022. 
So, Ive no reason to vary from my original findings and my final decision will, therefore, 
remain unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I require American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to:
rework Mr Ws account, from when the first agreement commenced to when the 
second one ended in August 2020 and refund any interest not previously refunded; 
and
calculate and refund any compound interest applied in relation to the interest 
refunded above, including any accrued on this beyond expiry of the agreements, and 
refund this to Mr Ws account. The calculation should take into consideration the 
payments Mr W subsequently made to his account with them and, whether this would 
have resulted in the balance being cleared each time; and
submit amendments to the credit reference agencies to reflect the newly calculated 
monthly balances and ensure that related adverse data reported (if any) is removed; 
and
pay compensation to Mr W of £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman