DRN-3363495
The complaint
Ms R complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc failed to set out details of interest 
charged in her loan agreement and it delayed sending her an amortisement statement.
What happened
Ms R took out a fixed sum loan in December 2020 to purchase a car. She borrowed £18,690 
with an APR of 9.9% with monthly repayments of £287.51 and a balloon payment at the end 
of £10,646.25.
She contacted Santander in February 2021 to explore an early settlement and was told she 
owed slightly more than she had borrowed despite having made two payments. She says 
she was told this was due to the interest charges at the beginning being higher. She said 
that she should have been told about this when she entered into the agreement and she 
asked for details of the interest due. The bank says it sent these, but they werent received 
by her.
She made further requests and the wrong details were sent and it took until September 2021 
for the correct figures to be sent. In its final response letter Santander apologised for the 
delays and offered to pay her £100 compensation. 
Before this occurred the matter was referred to this service. It was considered by one of our 
investigators who said the rate charged was correct and the contract had complied with the 
legal requirements. However, he thought Santander had been slow to send the 
amortisement statement and he suggested they pay £95 compensation.
Ms R didnt agree and said it was wrong to add higher interest at the start of the loan and 
she had expected it to be evenly spread. The delay had prevented her from deciding 
whether to settle the loan and she now wished to end it without paying interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there has been a degree of misunderstanding in this matter. Firstly, I should make it 
clear that the loan agreement is set out as required by the Consumer Credit Act. Santander 
has provided the information about interest and monthly payments as it is required to do. So, 
I cannot say that it has done anything wrong in this regard. The correct interest rate has 
been applied on the reducing balance and so the amount of interest paid reduces with each 
payment. 
When Ms R called Santander to discuss early termination she says she was told that the 
sum payment exceeded the amount borrowed and that this was due to higher interest being 
charged early on. The reality is that if fixed loan agreement is settled early the lender is 
allowed by law to charge additional intertest, normally of an extra two months. It can also 
make an administration charge. I cannot say what was said during the call, but there 
appears to have been some confusion and understandably Ms R was concerned that she 
was being overcharged. I do not believe she was.
This led to her seeking an amortisement statement. Santander says one was sent 
immediately, but this was not received by Ms R. Having looked at its internal notes I am 
satisfied one was sent and I cannot hold it responsible for the non-delivery of that document. 
However, once it was aware that it had not arrived it sent an incorrect statement and then 
took until September to send the right one. I think it only right she be compensated for that 
delay. Santander has offered £100 which I consider to be fair.
I do not consider it should be required to waive all interest. Ms R has had the use of the 
money she borrowed and is paying the interest she agreed to pay. A delay in responding to 
her request does not merit the interest charge being waived.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
pay Ms R £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman