DRN-3057445
The complaint
Fs complaint, in summary, is that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc failed to provide it with 
Third Party Provider (TPP) access under Open Banking and that meant F had to carry out 
certain work manually resulting in added costs to it. F also says that its directors had to 
spend a considerable amount of time with RBS to resolve this issue.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here.
Briefly, in September 2019 F applied to RBS for TPP permission, to be made available 
through Open Banking. This was to enable F import data from its various accounts with the 
bank directly onto Fs accounting software.  
However, things didnt go as expected. RBS could not provide the TPP access. Initially it 
wasnt clear what the problem was. Later it came to light that the issue was because F was a 
cross branded customer. F was a customer of NatWest but used RBS Bankline portal, 
through which the Open Banking / TPP access was to be given. It appears that this wasnt 
possible at the time.
Then followed several conversations between RBS and F as to how this could be resolved. 
In late October 2019, RBS suggested that a shadow Bankline be set up as a gateway for 
Open Banking services (in addition to the existing Bankline facility F had with RBS). But F 
found the procedure cumbersome and wasnt also confident that the solution would work.
Ultimately it was decided that the solution would be to move F to a NatWest login but that 
could be implemented only by July 2020. Thus, in effect, F didnt have the TPP access it was 
hoping to get via Open Banking, until about ten months after it applied for it. 
F says that meanwhile its accounting services provider had to manually transfer the data to 
its accounting software and that involved extra cost which was entirely due to RBS. So, it 
says that RBS should reimburse it this cost. It also says that its directors had to 
unnecessarily spend considerable amount of time to try and resolve this issue.
RBS says that this wasnt so much of a bank error rather a limitation of its system after the 
introduction of Open Banking. It says that it did offer a workaround which would have solved 
the issue for F whilst a permanent solution was being worked. But F declined to try that out. 
So, it feels that it shouldnt be held responsible for the cost incurred by F in doing the job 
manually.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and was of the opinion that the complaint should be 
upheld. He recognised that the failure by RBS to provide TPP access in September caused 
inconvenience to F. So, he recommended that RBS pays £350 towards it. 
As regards the financial loss claimed by F, he noted that F hadnt been able to specifically 
evidence the incurred costs and so was of the view that he couldnt fairly ask RBS to 
recompense F for any financial loss. He also noted that RBS suggested a workaround very 
early on which may have helped to mitigate some of Fs losses.  So, he was of the view that 
it wouldnt fair to ask RBS to pay the costs claimed by F. However, he said that it was 
evident the Bankline wasnt functioning properly during this period as it should have, so it 
would be fair for RBS to refund F the monthly Bankline fees it paid from October 2019 to July 
2020.
RBS said that it wasnt the case that F didnt have Bankline during this period and so it said 
that it wouldnt be fair to refund the entire monthly fees. Nevertheless, it accepted the 
investigators opinion and said that it will refund the fees which totalled about £200. 
F didnt accept investigators opinion. In summary it said that the proposed redress was only 
a tiny proportion of the costs it incurred due to RBSs failure to implement TPP access.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What had happened here isnt in dispute. It is the case that RBS took about ten months to 
provide TPP access to F via Open Banking. I appreciate that this was due to cross branding 
problem. However, I consider that the bank ought to have identified this problem as part of 
its Open Banking implementation to F and ought to have ensured that this was resolved 
before it asked F to register for Open Banking. 
So, the remaining issue for me to decide is what the fair compensation should be in this 
instance. 
F says that it had an existing direct daily automated export of data from RBS Bankline to 
its accounting software for several years but that stopped in September 2019 when 
the Open Banking was introduced. That wouldnt have been a problem had the TPP 
access under Open Banking worked but it didnt. This meant that F had to manually 
transfer the data until the issue was resolved in July 2020, which it didnt have to do 
before. F says that the cost of this extra manual work was £4,140 and submits that RBS 
should fully reimburse this cost.
RBS told me that the only way F was able to automatically import data prior to Open 
Banking was because it used a technique whereby F provided login details to the 
accounting software which in turn extracted the data from the bank accounts. RBS says 
that it had not authorised this and in any case it wasnt something that it provided. So, it 
says that it wouldnt be fair for it to be asked to compensate for this facility not working. 
I have carefully considered what the parties have said. I note F strongly feels about the 
discontinuation of this facility when Open Banking was introduced but I dont think it is 
fair that RBS should be held responsible for this not working, following the introduction of 
Open Banking. This was a facility RBS did not provide or authorise in the first instance.
That said, it is the case that F didnt have the advantage of directly importing data 
through TPP access under Open Banking, something which RBS ought to have 
provided. To that extent I consider that RBS should reimburse the cost F incurred in 
carrying out this work manually.  
However, RBS did offer a workaround until a permanent solution could be found. This 
was by way of a shadow Bankline. And this was offered by the end of October 2019. I appreciate why F was reluctant to take that route. However, I consider it fair to expect 
that F tried to mitigate the problem to the extent they could. RBS says that this action 
was successfully employed by many other customers impacted by the cross branding 
issue. It is difficult for me to know now whether that solution would have worked here 
and how effectively. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that it wouldnt have. 
This means that by implementing this alternative, F would have had TPP access and 
wouldnt have incurred the additional cost from around end of October. So, I consider it 
fair that any compensation should only be until that time.
F has said that it incurred about £4,140 for the entire period from September 2019 to 
July 2020 towards this manual work. This is on the basis that its accounting services 
provider had to spend about two hours each week for this work and this lasted for 46 
weeks. It says that it paid the provider £45 per hour. Thus, it has worked out the total 
cost to be £4,140.
F says that it can evidence the rate of £45 per hour. However, it could not specifically 
evidence the exact amount of time the accounting services provider spent for this 
particular work. It says that the data was manually transferred twice a week and estimate 
the time involved was about two hours a week (so an hour for all the various accounts 
put together, every time the data transfer took place). This doesnt appear to be 
excessive to me and so in the absence of specific evidence I am prepared to accept this 
as a reasonable estimate of the time spent. And the rate too appears reasonable to me 
but if it wants, RBS can get evidence of the rate from F.
I also note that the loss of savings of £4,140 calculated by F is in respect of several 
accounts including those pertaining to Fs sister concerns. However, F has confirmed to 
me that it was F that made those payments on behalf of all its group companies. So, I 
am satisfied that any compensation towards this loss should be reimbursed to F. 
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the fair compensation in this regard 
should be £720 (about 8 weeks to end of October / early November * 2 * £45). 
As this cost was incurred by F in 2019, I consider it fair that RBS also pays some interest 
on this amount. Ideally the interest should be calculated from the date of respective 
payments to the account services provider. But my calculation shows that works out 
roughly to about £130 at 8% simple p.a.  I am satisfied this is fair compensation towards 
any loss of interest on the £720.
As regards the implementation cost, I dont think RBS should reimburse it, as it seems to 
me that F would have incurred that in any case.
I agree that this matter caused inconvenience to F and I can also see that there was 
numerous correspondence between F and RBS in relation to this, particularly initially 
when it wasnt clear what the issue was.
At the same time, I also think that once the problem came to light, RBS did try to work 
with F to find a solution. Whilst I agree that this ought to have been ideally resolved 
before September 2019, this wasnt an easy fix. Once identified, it could take some time 
to rectify it. 
So, once the way forward was agreed around November 2019, then F had to essentially 
wait for it to be completed. From the available submissions I cant see that the director or 
other staff were to put to further inconvenience from that point on, apart from seeking 
regular updates. Taking all of the above into account, I am satisfied that a payment of £350 is fair and 
reasonable in relation to this aspect of the complaint. 
On our investigators recommendation RBS had also agreed to refund the Bankline 
charges of £20 a month for 10 months. However, I note that F did continue to use the 
Bankline during this period. As discussed earlier, the TPP was a new facility and I have 
already considered the impact of RBS failure to provide this. So, I dont think it is fair that 
RBS should also refund Bankline charges in addition.  
Therefore, in summary, after taking into account everything that had happened, my decision 
is that RBS should pay F a total of £1,200 (£720 + £130 + £350).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this The Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay £1,200 to F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman