DRN-4138178
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Black Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services, who Ill call Black Horse.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I think Black Horse have been reasonable here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. And when we think about whether a car has been of satisfactory quality the 
relevant legislation says we should consider whether the goods have been durable.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
I dont think theres a dispute over whether this car has been of satisfactory quality. Black 
Horse have agreed to pay for repairs to the car and have offered Mr K some compensation.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault. If a further fault 
occurs, that is likely to have been present when the car was supplied, or that means its 
likely the car wasnt sufficiently durable, we would expect the business to allow the 
consumer to reject the car. 
But here whilst I understand Mr Ks frustration with the vehicle, by the time he complained to 
Black Horse hed accepted the repairs to the car and it had been returned to him, and in 
those circumstances the relevant legislation says he cant then require the business to reject 
the goods.
I would, however, expect Black Horse to compensate Mr K for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced, and to provide some redress as the courtesy cars he was 
provided with dont appear to have been like for like. I can see they offered to make a 
payment of £381.75 in respect of those issues and I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances, and in line with what this Service would have ordered.
I note that Mr K has explained hes having issues with the doors on the car now. We cant 
usually consider complaints until the business has had an opportunity to provide its view on 
them. So, Mr K will need to refer that complaint point to Black Horse in the first instance and 
they may then wish to consider whether the car can still be considered durable. If Mr K is 
dissatisfied with Black Horses response they will give him rights to then refer the complaint 
to this Service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman