DRN-3150090
The complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC blocked and closed his account. 
What happened
Mr B had a savings account with Metro.
In January 2019, Metro reviewed Mr Bs account. Whilst it completed its review Metro 
blocked the account  which meant Mr B couldnt access the funds in it. The account was 
blocked from January 2019 until June 2019.
Following its review, Metro decided to close Mr Bs account. Metro wrote to Mr B on 10 June 
2019 and gave him 60 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr B complained to Metro about the block and closure of his account. He made several trips 
into branch and telephoned Metro to try and find out what was happening with his account 
and the reasons behind the banks actions. Metro didnt provide Mr B with much information 
and said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account 
and relevant regulations. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the banks response. He wants the bank to provide a proper 
explanation for why it blocked and closed the account. And to pay him compensation for the 
trouble and upset the block and closure of his account has caused him. So, he brought his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Metro hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Bs account. She said theyd acted in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. And had treated Mr B fairly when it decided to close his 
account. 
Mr B disagreed. He wants the bank to provide a proper explanation for why it closed his 
account. He also says the bank took too long to complete its review. So, he says the bank 
hasnt acted fairly and wants compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused by 
the banks actions.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr B has told us and Metro that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. I appreciate that he is upset that Metro blocked and closed his account. But for 
me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. 
And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Metro has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mr Bs account also permit Metro to review an account and ask its customers for 
information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Metro to block Mr Bs account. Metro has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Metro were complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr B inconvenience 
when it  blocked his account, I cant say the bank has treated him unfairly. 
I understand that Mr B wants Metro to explain the reason it applied the block to his account 
in the first place. But Metro doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr B the reasons behind the account review and 
block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
him this information. 
Mr B says Metro took too long to complete its review of the account. He says the bank 
should have done things more quickly. I do accept that it took around six months for Metro to 
release the funds held in the account and remove the account block. But I dont consider that 
it would be right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess of any particular or 
specific timeframe. Because the bank was entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it 
did in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
I also note that Metro spoke to Mr B on more than one occasion about what was happening.  
So, I think Metro kept Mr B informed about what it was doing. Ive looked at the timeline and 
can see that Metro didnt cause any unnecessary delays and were trying to complete its 
enquiries as quickly as possible. I appreciate that Metros actions caused Mr B real 
inconvenience. It wouldnt however, be appropriate to make an award for compensation for 
that, since I dont believe that Metro acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did.
I then turn to the banks decision to close the account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing Mr B with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Metro gave Mr B 60 days notice of its intention to close his account. The bank wrote to Mr B 
on 10 June 2019, letting him know the account would close. So, it was entitled to close the 
account as it has already done. 
I understand Mr B feels Metro should be punished for the way it has treated him. But its 
important to note that it isnt the role of this service to punish or fine businesses for their 
mistakes or standard of service. This service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses 
for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service 
looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and business. Should we decide 
that something has gone wrong we would ask a business to put things right by placing a customer, as far as possible, in the position they would have been in if the problem hadnt 
occurred. 
In summary, its clearly caused Mr B a great deal of inconvenience when he wasnt able to 
use his account. So understandably hes upset. And I appreciate it must have been a 
worrying and frustrating time for him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. 
But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that 
Metro didnt do anything wrong when it blocked, reviewed and closed Mr Bs account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman