DRN-3421344
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited turned down his loss of licence 
insurance claim. Hes also unhappy about the sale of the cover.
What happened
In 2017, Mr M joined his employers loss of licence insurance scheme, underwritten by 
Hiscox. The aim of the scheme is to pay benefit in the event Mr M cant work in his role (due 
to the suspension of a license he requires in order to work) because of illness or injury.
In 2020, Mr M stopped work due to neck pain. He submitted a claim to Hiscox. 
Hiscox turned down the claim. It said Mr Ms condition was pre-existing which meant it 
wasnt covered under the scheme. Unhappy with this, Mr M brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Hiscoxs claims 
decision had been reasonable, and also thought the information Mr M had received about 
the cover had made him aware of the exclusion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised a number of points. I dont intend to answer each of these, as I dont think 
thats necessary in order to reach a fair outcome. Instead, my decision will focus on what I 
consider to be the main aspects of the complaint.
The policy says:
What is not covered
A. We will not make any payment for any claim or loss directly or indirectly due to:

10. any previous disability unless declared to and agreed by us in writing.
Previous disability is defined as:
Any condition for which you have sought advice, diagnosis, treatment or counselling or of 
which you were or should reasonably have been aware or for which you had been treated at 
any time prior to inception.
In 2020, an MR scan showed that Mr M had right C6/7 disc prolapse. It was noted that he 
had previously experienced right arm brachalgia from right C6/7 disc prolapse in 2016 (the 
year before joining the scheme).
Ive looked at the medical information from 2016, and this confirms that Mr M was seen in a 
spine clinic with right arm pain. An MR scan was carried out and he was diagnosed with 
C6/7 right-sided disc prolapse. Mr M was given medication for nerve pain, but didnt require 
any further intervention as the pain later resolved.
Im satisfied from this that Mr M sought advice, diagnosis and treatment in 2016, and so his 
C6/7 disc prolapse would fall under the scheme definition of previous disability. It was 
therefore appropriate for Hiscox to rely on this exclusion to turn down Mr Ms claim.
Mr M also complains about the sale of the cover.
The scheme was an arrangement between Mr Ms employer (as the policyholder) and 
Hiscox. The terms of the scheme were therefore agreed between these parties, and Mr M 
had no say over the terms being offered as he wasnt party to the sale of the scheme. Mr M 
was able to select the cover through his employee benefits, and Hiscox didnt need to 
ensure that the cover was suitable for him. 
Hiscox has provided screenshots of information it says was available to Mr M through his 
employer before selecting the cover. This set out significant or unusual exclusions/limitations 
and stated:
The policy does not cover any claim caused by or resulting from:

an undeclared previous disability, unless expressly agreed by [Hiscoxs agent]
Mr M didnt declare his condition to Hiscox, though Hiscox has confirmed that even if he had 
done, it would have been excluded.
After Mr M took out the cover, Hiscox sent him a welcome email on 28 April 2017. This email 
referred to policy documents being attached. 
I also see that when Mr Ms cover renewed, he was able to access scheme information. 
Mr Ms cover renewed each year, including on 1 April 2019 (the year of the claim). Hiscox 
has provided a copy of an email it says was sent to Mr M on 14 May 2019 following his 
renewal which directed him to policy documents in a secure vault. It seems Mr M didnt 
access those documents until April 2020.    
Nonetheless, Hiscox has shown that in the vault, Mr M could have accessed the policy 
schedule, policy terms, and the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). The IPID 
makes it clear that pre-existing conditions arent insured. The policy document explains that 
cover isnt provided for a previous disability. 
I appreciate the screenshots from Mr Ms employers benefits site were taken after Mr M 
made his complaint, so I cant be certain that Mr M saw this exact information before taking 
out the cover. If Mr M has any concerns about the information he was given by his employer 
about the cover, he should raise those concerns directly with his employer. 
However, Im satisfied that Hiscox provided Mr M with sufficient information about how the 
scheme worked.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman