DRN-3042743
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited, following a claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background
Mr S was contacted by a company Ill refer to as P that supplied and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a meeting, Mr S agreed to enter into a contract with P for it to supply and 
install a solar panel system at his home. To fund this Mr S also agreed to enter into a 15 
year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr S made a claim under section 75 of the CCA through his representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mr S that the solar panels would be self-funded and that 
the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. 
But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much higher than 
the income.
In its final response letter, Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented to Mr S. Unhappy with this response, he referred the complaint to 
our service.
During the course of our investigation Shawbrook made an offer to resolve the complaint. 
Shawbrook offered to calculate the potential savings and income to Mr S over the term of the 
loan. It then said it would restructure the loan so that Mr S wouldnt pay any more than this 
over the 15 year term of the loan. It also offered to pay Mr S £200 to recognise the trouble 
and upset caused.
Shawbrook gave Mr S four options as to how hed like the loan restructured:
a) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early;
b) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he pays 
a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term;
c) The overpayments are returned to Mr S, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate amount of 
the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, with the 
remainder being paid direct to Mr S, and he continues to make the current monthly 
payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or
d) The overpayments are returned to Mr S, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate amount of 
the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase with the 
remainder being paid direct to Mr S, and he pays a new, lower monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
Shawbrook explained that, because of the way the loan was restructured, if all the 
overpayments were returned (options (c) and (d) above), the overall loan balance would 
increase. Therefore, it proposed that an amount of the overpayment would be used to 
ensure the outstanding balance, and therefore the amount that Mr S would pay, wouldnt 
increase.
Our investigator felt that the offer was fair. Mr S, through his representative, didnt. In 
summary the representative said that Mr S should be able to receive all his overpayments 
back, even if the loan balance were to increase. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Shawbrook nor Mr S disputes that the benefits of the solar panel system were 
misrepresented. And Ive also noted that neither party disagrees with the principles of the 
proposed redress to put things right. Therefore, Ive only considered whether Mr S should be 
allowed to receive the full refund of his overpayments and for the loan balance to increase. 
Shawbrook has explained that when it has restructured the loan to ensure that the total 
amount payable over the term matches the expected benefits, if it were to refund all 
overpayments made, this would cause the outstanding loan balance to be higher than it 
currently is.
My understanding is that this is because, under the original loan terms, the monthly 
payments Mr S made were predominantly paying off the interest that was being accrued as 
opposed to reducing the outstanding capital for the earlier period of the loan. This means 
when Shawbrook has restructured the loan, if it were to return all the overpayments made, 
the outstanding loan balance would increase.
Shawbrook has said it doesnt think it is appropriate to do this as it would, in effect, increase 
the debt that Mr S owes to it. The representative has said that the decision on whether Mr 
Ss debt should increase or not should be down to his choice as opposed to what 
Shawbrook has said.
Ive carefully considered the views put forward by all parties. Having done so, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mr Ss outstanding loan balance to be increased beyond 
what it currently is.
I say this, for broadly the reasons that have already been given by Shawbrook. If all the 
overpayments were returned, this would increase the overall amount owed and therefore 
increase the level of debt that Mr S is in. And I dont think consider that to be fair and 
reasonable.
So, whilst Im satisfied that the four options discussed above are fair, Shawbrook should 
ensure that, if Mr S chooses option (c) or (d), the appropriate portion of the overpayments 
are used to ensure the loan balance does not increase beyond what it currently is.
In summary the four options are:
(a) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr S 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early;
(b) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr S 
pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term;(c) The overpayments are returned to Mr S, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate amount of 
the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, with the 
remainder being paid direct to Mr S, who continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or
(d) The overpayments are returned to Mr S, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate amount of 
the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, with the 
remainder being paid direct to Mr S, who pays a new, lower monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time Mr S first contacted 
Shawbrook that his claim should have been upheld. The fact that this did not happen 
undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an award of £200 to 
cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
(a) allow Mr S to keep the solar panels; 
(b) estimate the potential savings and incomes to Mr S from the panels over the 15 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this - where possible, using Mr 
Ss electricity bills and FIT statements to do this;
(c) add 8% simple interest to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment was 
made to date of settlement;
(d) allow Mr S to decide how he would like his overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above; and
(e) pay Mr S £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman