DRN-3374510
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a number of 
packaged bank accounts. Their account history is as follows.
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold Service account sometime prior to September 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account in June 2004
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account in March 2010
Club added to the Premier account in March 2016
Amongst other things, they say that the accounts were not suitable for them and they 
thought that they had to have the accounts in order to have a larger overdraft facility, at a 
lower interest rate.
What happened
Lloyds upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about their Platinum account and refunded the 
accounts fees in line with our approach. We have therefore not looked into this sale.
Our adjudicator then assessed the sale of the Gold Service and Premier accounts and they 
didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold them. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this and therefore 
their complaint was referred to me for a final decision. 
I note that Mr and Mrs M have said that they tried to reduce their overdraft facility over the 
years but they say they were not allowed to. If Mr and Mrs M remain unhappy with this or 
think that Lloyds has treated them unfairly in relation to their attempts to reduce their 
overdraft limit, then we can address this separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mr and 
Mrs M and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice in taking out these 
accounts. Mr and Mrs M have said that they held a fee-free account in the past. So I think 
that they wouldve been aware that fee-free accounts were generally available and an option 
for them. 
Mr and Mrs M have not explained why they thought that they could not get a fee-free 
account for either of these sales, so overall, on balance, I think that they agreed to these 
accounts knowing they did not have to. 
Mr and Mrs M said they thought they had to change their accounts in order to get larger and 
cheaper overdrafts. I cant see that their overdraft limits changed at the time of the upgrades. 
So I dont think they upgraded to get a larger overdraft. But both of the accounts did come 
with preferential overdraft rates and buffer zones which could result in a lower cost to use 
their overdraft. So if this is why they upgraded, then I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong 
in relation to this.
Both accounts were recommended to Mr and Mrs M. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that it 
was a broadly reasonable fit for their circumstances at the time.
At the time the Gold account was taken out it cost £8 a month and the main benefits it came 
with were Worldwide travel insurance and an £100 interest free overdraft facility, that 
included a preferential interest rate when an overdraft was used above £100 (up to the 
agreed limit). 
At the time the Premier account was taken out, it cost £25 a month and provided Worldwide 
travel insurance, comprehensive breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and home 
emergency cover. Importantly it also came with a £500 interest free overdraft buffer with 
preferential rates for overdrawn balances above this amount.
In relation to the Gold account, I can see that Mr and Mrs M did travel and did use their 
overdraft. So I think that this account was a reasonable fit for them and was the cheapest 
account that came with these benefits.
In relation to the Premier account, Mr and Mrs M have explained that they did not need the 
breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance as they held them through their employer. So 
given this, I need to establish if the Premier account was the most suitable account that 
Lloyds offered at the time that came with the benefits that Mr and Mrs M say they could use. 
I am not sure if Mr and Mrs M were able to use the home emergency cover that the account 
came with. But I think that the other two benefits - Worldwide travel insurance and the 
overdraft benefits - were enough to make this a reasonable recommendation. I note that Mr 
and Mrs M said that they did not travel outside of Europe. But transactions on their account 
suggests they took a trip to Canada in 2011 and 2012. So I think that its likely that they had 
a need for worldwide travel cover, around the time the account was taken out.
The cheapest account that Lloyds offered at the time of the Premier account sale that 
included Worldwide travel insurance was actually the Gold account. And by that point it cost 
£12 a month. It also came with a £100 fee-free overdraft buffer and preferential rates on 
overdrawn balances above this amount. However, the Premier account included significantly 
larger overdraft benefits compared to the Gold account., And given Mr and Mrs Ms overdraft 
usage at the time this meant that the Premier account likely worked out to be a cheaper 
option for Mr and Mrs M, than the Gold account did. This was because it had the potential to 
save Mr and Mrs M money on their overdraft usage above and beyond the extra costs to 
have the more expensive account. Given this I think that Lloyds recommending the Premier 
account at the time it was taken out was not unreasonable. I accept that Mr and Mrs M may not have been told everything during the sales, about all of 
the benefits that the accounts came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mr and 
Mrs Ms circumstances from either sale, that makes me think they wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to them, had they been given even more information about the benefits that the 
accounts came with. Because of this, I dont think that either of the packaged accounts were 
mis-sold.
In relation to the addition of the Club benefit to the Premier account in 2016, this was an 
add-on that cost £3 a month and provided benefits such as cinema tickets. This fee was 
waived if a certain amount was paid into the account a month. Looking at the list of account 
fees charged by Lloyds, I cant see that what they were paying per month changed after the 
Club benefit was added to the account. So it appears that they met the criteria for getting this 
benefit for free. So I cant reasonably say that the Club Lloyds add-on was mis-sold either. 
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr and Mrs M mayve 
read recently about financial products being mis-sold, they may now believe that their 
accounts were mis-sold. But based on what Mr and Mrs M has said, alongside all of the 
available evidence that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that their 
accounts were mis-sold in the first instance. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman