DRN-2649301
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading under a different business 
name) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds as the business that sold the PPI to keep things simpler.
What happened
Mrs S took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in 1998. 
The PPI covered Mrs S for accident, sickness and unemployment and protected her 
mortgage monthly repayments. 
Mrs S mainly told us that she readily agreed to everything offered as she was anxious to find 
somewhere to live and given to understand the mortgage was dependent on taking out PPI. 
She says she didnt realise that the benefits she had available through her employer 
wouldve been sufficient  these included generous sick pay and redundancy. And she told 
us she was in secure work  and also that she wouldve been entitled to be relocated to a 
new post within the organisation. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I dont doubt that Mrs S is sure about everything shes told us. But it wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect Mrs S to remember exactly what was discussed when she took out the policy as 
this was so long ago. And what Mrs S says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold the complaint. Where the information is incomplete, as some of it is here, I must 
make my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened taking into account all the 
information thats available, what the parties have told me and also thinking about what we 
know about these types of sales at that time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Lloyds gave Mrs S a choice about taking out the 
PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mrs S wasnt 
given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to Mrs Ss mortgage 
account without her knowledge or consent. 
Ive seen a copy of the signed paperwork Lloyds provided from when Mrs S took out her 
mortgage. 
I can see that in the section headed: Applying for MortgageSure (this is what Lloyds called 
its PPI at the time) there were two tick boxes for applicants to say Yes or No to PPI. 
So although I dont know how the PPI was explained to her, I think Mrs S wouldve been able 
to see that having PPI was a matter of choice and that it was up to her to say if she wanted 
to take it out. And she couldve ticked the No box if she hadnt wanted PPI.  
The Yes box is ticked on Mrs Ss mortgage application. 
And the next part of the form is headed: Checking you are eligible for MortgageSure and 
I can see that boxes are ticked in answer to the questions being asked. 
So it looks like Mrs S wanted to have PPI and she answered the questions to check she was 
eligible to take it out. And I can see why she mightve wanted PPI at the time  even if shes 
forgotten this now.
The mortgage was a major financial commitment set up to be paid over 15 years. Mrs Ss 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided 
dependable cover and it looks to me as if Mrs S couldve found PPI useful if shed needed to 
claim. I can see why she might reasonably have felt that having PPI was worthwhile for her.
I accept that parts of Mrs Ss mortgage application may have been completed for her by 
Lloyds advisor. But I think its likely that the information on the form probably reflected 
discussions the advisor had with Mrs S. I think its reasonable to expect that Mrs S wouldve 
looked carefully over the completed application before signing to make sure it reflected her 
wishes. And I think its fair to say that by signing the completed application she was 
indicating that she agreed with the information on the form. 
On balance, based on all the information I've seen, I think its likely that Mrs S wanted to 
have the benefits the policy offered and PPI was added to her mortgage account at her 
request when she chose to protect her home by taking out this insurance. 
Lloyds couldnt say for certain how it sold this PPI to Mrs S but she told us she took out the 
PPI in one of its branches. And Lloyds says it wouldve advised her to take out PPI in these 
circumstances. So, to be as fair as possible to Mrs S, Lloyds looked at this complaint on the 
basis that it personally recommended PPI to Mrs S with her mortgage. If a business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear 
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
I think this is the fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the 
lender. And thats the approach I've taken. 
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable for Mrs S based on what shes told us about her 
circumstances at the time. 
Mrs S said she wouldve received at least 6 months' sick pay from her employer. If she was 
off work sick, PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit that covered the cost of her mortgage 
repayment for up to 12 months per claim. And it wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay 
from work. I think this couldve been very useful if Mrs S wasnt able to work - especially as 
she mightve had some extra expenses to meet as a result of being sick or disabled and 
bearing in mind she alone was responsible for paying this mortgage. No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. The policy wouldve also paid a monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mrs S lost her job unexpectedly and was 
out of work.  
Mrs S told us she was able to rely on a family member for financial assistance. But relying 
on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out 
PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs S if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
It looks like Mrs S used some of her savings as a deposit on her new home. This left her with 
around £3000 (according to the information shown on her mortgage application). But there 
was no guarantee when Mrs S took out this mortgage that she would always have savings to 
rely on if her circumstances changed. And as Mrs S didnt put all her money towards keeping 
down the cost of the mortgage, perhaps because she preferred to keep savings intact to 
provide financial security or to spend on other things, then I think she wouldve valued the 
protection PPI offered. Having PPI meant that Mrs S could be sure shed be able to pay the 
mortgage monthly repayments without breaking into savings.  
Looking at Mrs Ss overall circumstances at the time, I can see why she mightve felt that this 
was a worthwhile policy to buy. I think it offered her potentially useful benefits in her 
particular situation and it was suitable for her.
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But it doesnt look as if 
they affected Mrs S. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt 
cover wouldve put her off taking it out.  
Mrs S was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions 
that applied. 
She hasnt said anything to make me think the policy wasnt affordable for her. The PPI cost 
was shown on her mortgage offer  so she had an idea in advance of what she would have 
to pay for the policy. This was a policy she paid for monthly. So if she didnt want to pay to 
keep it running Mrs S couldve cancelled the policy at no cost at all during the first 30 days  
and any time afterwards at no extra cost. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I dont think having clearer information wouldve stopped Mrs S buying the policy. 
I think Mrs S still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been given clearer information 
as it gave her useful protection in her particular situation. 
So this means I dont think that Mrs S has lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman