DRN-2671779
The complaint
Mr N has complained that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc has classified one of his buy-to-let 
(BTL) properties as five separate units rather than as a single House of Multiple Occupation 
(HMO). As a result, Mr N says this has impacted on the type of finance available to him, and 
has prevented him from purchasing a BTL property for his daughter.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr N 
being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint
Mr N has four BTL mortgages with TMW which completed in 2019 and 2020. Mr N also has 
a number of other BTL properties, including the one which has given rise to this complaint.
Mr N applied to TMW for a mortgage for a new purchase and to remortgage the four other 
properties on products from TMWs standard portfolio range, which is for landlord borrowers 
who own ten properties or fewer. 
However, TMW said that one of Mr Ns properties (which I will call 44WSR) wasnt a HMO. 
TMW said that it is rented out as five separate dwellings, each with their own private kitchen 
and bathroom, and so TMW was satisfied this property was not a HMO. TMW noted that on 
the last two remortgages Mr N had taken out, 44WSR had been input on TMWs system as a 
HMO, although TMW had previously been told that it was five separate flats. But at that time 
Mr N remained within the criteria for the standard portfolio (which was available for BTL 
borrowers with up to ten mortgaged BTL properties). 
However, with this latest application, if the property was classified as five separate units, Mr 
N would need to switch to the large portfolio range, as he would then have more than ten 
mortgaged BTL properties. This range of products had a lower loan-to-value ratio and a 
higher stress test than the standard portfolio products.
Mr N insisted 44WSR was a HMO, but TMW maintained that these were five separate flats, 
each with their own bathroom and kitchen, and no shared facilities with other occupants. 
TMW also noted that one of the flats was being advertised online to rent as a single unit. 
TMW didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr N complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the 
complaint but didnt think TMW hadnt done anything wrong. He was satisfied TMW was 
entitled, on the evidence, to treat 44WSR as five separate units.
Mr N disagreed and has made some further points, which I summarise. He maintained that 
TMW had accepted his applications for his previous four mortgages on the basis that 
44WSR was a HMO, and that changes to this to show it as five separate flats had been 
fabricated by TMW. Mr N demanded an investigation into this.
Mr N also said that 44WSR is a single property with a single title at the Land Registry, and 
with one mortgage on it. So for TMW to suggest it is five separate units is unfair and 
incorrect. Mr N also said that it was unfair for TMW to rely on its internal lending criteria 
when he had never seen a copy of this.
Because the matter has not been resolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr N believes TMW has deliberately fabricated the 
information about 44WSR falsely to classify it as five separate units. He believes TMW has 
done this in order to prevent him from being eligible for products from the standard portfolio 
range. He is unhappy that TMWs internal lending criteria wasnt made available to him, and 
disputes that this applies to 44WSR which is, he insists, a HMO. 
However, after reviewing the evidence, Im satisfied TMW hasnt done anything wrong. 
These are my reasons.
It is correct that the freehold title of 44WSR is held on a single title at the Land Registry, and 
that Mr N has just one mortgage on it. But from my own research I can see that the property 
is divided into self-contained flats, each with a private entrance, kitchen and bathroom, and 
rented out as separate units.
This doesnt meet the definition of a HMO which is described on the Government website as 
follows:
Your home is a house in multiple occupation (HMO) if both of the following apply:
at least 3 tenants live there, forming more than 1 household
you share toilet, bathroom or kitchen facilities with other tenants
Your home is a large HMO if both of the following apply:
at least 5 tenants live there, forming more than 1 household
you share toilet, bathroom or kitchen facilities with other tenants
Ive noted that in 2008 Mr N was granted planning permission to extend and improve the 
property, and in his proposals he states that the intention is to create five separate units, with 
private bathrooms and kitchens, eliminating communal bathrooms and making each unit 
self-contained. The details available online for flats available to rent at 44WSR show that 
they are, in fact, separate units.
The property is not on the register of HMOs with the local authority. Although Mr N provided 
a certificate from the local authority which he claims supports his contention that this is a 
HMO, the certificate, dated 25 March 2010, is in fact a certificate to show compliance with Building Regulations, effectively signing off the work carried out under the planning 
permission referred to above. 
But in any event, this certificate doesnt support Mr Ns contention that 44WSR is a single 
dwelling used as a HMO, as the address of the property is described on the Building 
Regulations Certificate as [44WSR] (Flats 1-5).
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that 44WSR isnt a HMO but is five separate self-
contained flats. So now I have to consider whether TMW has done something wrong in 
requiring 44WSR to be split on its property schedule into five separate units.
I appreciate Mr N wouldnt have known TMWs lending criteria before he applied for a 
mortgage  but this is information thats publicly available on TMWs website, where it states, 
in the Portfolio Landlord Guide:
Multi-unit blocks - 1 loan secured against multiple properties
Where the borrower owns multiple units under one title, each self-contained unit must 
be listed separately with its own estimated value, property type, rental income and 
number of bedrooms. Where these properties are security for one mortgage, the 
mortgage balance should be divided equally between the number of units. e.g. a 
block of six flats should be keyed as six separate BTL properties and a total 
mortgage of £300,000 should be keyed as six mortgages of £50,000.
As a commercial borrower, its up to Mr N to make sure he is fully aware of TMWs lending 
requirements, either by taking advice from a broker or by researching for himself the 
information TMW has on its website. TMW didnt give Mr N any advice about his mortgages.
In the circumstances, although Mr N probably made an innocent mistake in telling TMW that 
44WSR was a HMO when he applied for his mortgages, this wasnt in fact correct. Given 
this, Im satisfied TMW is entitled to correctly classify the property as five separate units in 
line with its lending criteria. I can see why Mr N is suspicious that TMW changed the 
description of 44WSR without justification. But what TMW actually did was put right a 
mistake and corrected the wrong information it had originally been given  which was that 
44WSR was a HMO when it is not.
I can appreciate this has caused Mr N some upset, as it will affect the loan-to-value criteria 
and the stress rate applied to his borrowing with TMW if he goes over the threshold of 
having 11 mortgaged properties. But in all the circumstances, (and although I dont expect 
Mr N to agree with me) I cant see that TMW has done anything wrong, or that its actions are 
unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman