DRN-4281967
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson Insurances 
decision to decline her claim. 
What happened
Miss R had travel insurance with Astrenska. She was on a cruise when she was injured 
whilst on an excursion and required stitches in her left leg. Miss R said she was injured 
because of the cruise operators negligence. Miss R explained that she was unable to enjoy 
the remainder of her trip because of her injuries and so shed like compensation to reflect 
her loss. She also said shed like Astrenska to replace her shoes that were damaged and 
her associated stationary costs for making her claim.
Astrenska said it declined Miss Rs claim because the policy didnt cover loss of enjoyment. 
It acknowledged the difficulties she experienced but said the cost of replacing her shoes 
wouldnt cover the cost of her excess and so it maintained its decision to decline her claim. 
Our investigator thought that was fair. She said the policy doesnt cover loss of enjoyment 
and so there wasnt any cover available in the circumstances.
Miss R, unhappy with that, requested an ombudsman to issue a final decision. In summary, 
she said, shed like compensation for the remaining 11 days she was unable to participate in 
the activities she had planned. This included dancing, swimming and sunbathing. Miss R 
also said she was unable to wear her formal dresses because of the wound. And so, its now 
for me to make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator in that Im satisfied Astrenska declined Miss Rs claim 
fairly because theres no cover for loss of enjoyment under her policy. Ill explain why. 
The rules say Astrenska must not decline a claim unfairly. It must also assess claims 
promptly. The rules are set out under the insurance conduct of business sourcebook 
(ICOBS) and so Ive thought carefully about Astrenskas obligations under these rules. Im 
satisfied Astrenska handled Miss Rs claim fairly and promptly because it acted within the 
policy terms and gave an answer within 11 days of receiving the claim  which I thought was 
fair. 
For clarity, it might be helpful if I explain Miss Rs policy is a travel insurance policy with 
medical cover. Its important to recognise this policy doesnt cover loss of enjoyment, nor 
does it cover legal expenses to sue the tour operator. Miss R made arguments about the 
reason the accident occurred, but theyre not relevant here. I say that because Im not 
considering a claim against the tour operator, or a public liability claim. This complaint, put 
simply, is whether Astrenska should have considered a curtailment claim because Miss R 
was injured to such a degree, she was unable to continue her trip. 
Having carefully considered the available medical evidence, Im satisfied it wasnt medically 
necessary to curtail Miss Rs trip. I say that because Ive seen no medical evidence that 
suggested she was immobile, or in need of inpatient hospital treatment following her 
accident. It was unfortunate Miss R was injured and that her leg required stitches, but there 
wasnt any medical need to curtail the trip and I note theres no medical evidence that 
suggested otherwise. I note Miss R was treated by the on-board physician and that she 
attended some follow up sessions for dressing changes and monitoring, but Im satisfied 
there was no medical need to curtail the trip. So, Im satisfied Astrenska handled that part of 
the claim fairly. 
Turning to Miss Rs arguments about not being able to enjoy the full experience of her 
planned trip, whilst sympathetic, I dont think itd be fair to hold Astrenska responsible for 
that. Ive carefully considered her policy and Im satisfied theres no cover for loss of 
expectation, or loss of enjoyment, which is effectively the reason for Miss Rs claim. She 
wasnt confined to her cabin and there was no medical reason to curtail the trip. Therefore, 
her claim is about loss of enjoyment because she couldnt participate in some of the 
activities on offer. Travel insurance typically doesnt cover claims arising for those reasons 
and so Im satisfied with the answer Astrenska gave there too.  
Miss Rs other arguments about replacing her damaged shoes arent upheld either. The 
reason for that is because Astrenskas terms say it wont be liable for the first £75 of any 
claim and Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that successfully challenges that term. 
Astrenska said itd consider a claim for that should Miss R provide it with evidence  which I 
thought was fair. I should also say Astrenska isnt responsible for Miss Rs stationary costs. I 
say that because its Miss Rs responsibility to show she has a valid claim and so any costs 
incurred should be hers.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman