DRN-2906522
The complaint
Mr M and Ms N complain about the advice and service they received from Close Asset 
Management (UK) Limited, referred to as the business.   
 
In summary, theyre unhappy about the advice they received to encash their investment. 
They believe it wasnt done as agreed and in a timely manner, and consequently theyve lost 
out financially. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business accepts that it had previously made some errors relating to calculating 
an encashment which led to a tax charge for 2018/2019. It also acknowledges that 
Mr M and Ms N are unhappy about the charges theyve paid in 2019/2020. In respect 
of these points it has offered compensation which Mr M and Ms N have now 
accepted. 
The only issue remaining is around the advice to surrender their bond, which is the 
subject of this complaint. 
In a meeting in October 2019, Mr M and Ms N, sought advice about making an 
encashment from their portfolio but they didnt instruct the business to make an 
encashment. The business confirmed that it needed information relating to their 
income, before providing a recommendation. 
Although there arent any official notes of the meeting, the adviser said he didnt send 
a letter to Mr M and Ms N to explain why he needed this information because they 
wouldve known, having undertaken a similar exercise 12 months ago in which he 
didnt act before the relevant information was provided. In the circumstances it was 
reasonable and in line with regulatory guidance for the adviser to ask for this 
information before providing a recommendation. 
The business confirmed that it received the income information in February 2020. In 
due course, the adviser spoke to Mr M over the phone and told him that he didnt 
think it was the right time to make the encashment, given the market conditions. 
During the call Mr M had been querying the previous years tax calculation  which 
isnt the subject of this complaint  and felt the business calculation was incorrect. 
But having undertaken to consider their discussion overnight, Mr M (without speaking 
to the adviser) instructed the surrender of the bond. So, regardless of any losses that 
Mr M and Ms N might have sustained, it was Mr Ms decision to encash the bond.  
Despite the reasons for surrender not having changed since October 2019, the 
business still wasnt able to advise until it had all the necessary information, to 
ensure that the advice was suitable in the circumstances.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he made the following points:
In a meeting dated 22 October 2019, they were advised by the business to surrender 
the remainder of their bond, based on a value of £165,000 and a tax liability of 
£10,000, which they accepted. They relied on this advice and the business to carry 
out its actions, which wasnt unreasonable given the fees they were paying. 
The business didnt execute the agreed course of action in a timely manner, despite 
having all the necessary information to do so. 
They didnt contact the business and seek advice about making an encashment, they 
had regular meetings every six months or so, and they were advised to encash the 
remainder of the bond.  
Theyd discussed the option when they decided to partially encash the bond the 
previous year, and it was agreed that they had a window of 2019/2020 tax year to 
undertake this, because their income from other sources was low or non-existent, so 
theyd have a lower tax liability than in other years.   
They didnt provide formal instructions because its not something theyve ever done. 
All the necessary income figures were provided by 10 February 2020, leaving the 
adviser to issue a formal letter of advice and execute the necessary paperwork in a 
timely and professional manner. 
He cant understand why the adviser didnt do the work before he left to go in holiday, 
it wouldve taken him a few hours, and the value of the bond was well above the level 
in October. 
He doesnt accept that the income figures were needed before the agreed action 
could be carried out. As he explained in his email dated 5 August 2020, it was 
possible to calculate the best apportionment of the bond value before remitting the 
funds onshore using the formula hed set out.
The only relevance of the income figure was to decide whether (or not) to re-allocate 
the units held in the bond between him and his wife. The figures were totally 
irrelevant to encash the bond.   
He has a note of the meeting, even though the business doesnt have one. He was 
aware that their income figure was needed to decide whether their combined tax 
liability could be reduced by reallocating a portion of one persons holdings to the 
other. Having relooked at the figures he now knows the income figures werent 
necessary. 
If the income figures were so critical, why werent they mentioned in the October 
meeting. The adviser also didnt respond to his urgent email in February 2020. 
An encashment of an offshore bond isnt a taxable event. In their case, it resulted in 
units in a fund being converted into cash, which continued to be held offshore. The 
taxable event in this instance is the repatriation of funds from an offshore holding. 
Theyre two separate things and the former must precede the latter. 
He called the business on 19 March 2020, to find out what the situation was having 
discovered that the paperwork had to be with the bond administrators by 20 March 
2020. 
Despite what the investigator says, a fuller chronology of events is as follows: 
o10 February 2020, he supplied the adviser with the income figures that 
werent requested again after the October 2019 meeting. He also asked for 
the calculations underlying the previous year's reallocation.
o11 February 2020, the adviser said that that their teams had been tied up 
providing information to the Regulator, but he hoped to have a response later 
that week i.e. by Friday 14 February 2020. He made no reference to the 
income figures. 
o16 February 2020, he emailed the adviser again, confirming he needed to get 
moving because they had a need for cash. 
o28 February 2020, he emailed again asking what was going on, as they were 
out of cash, and he had to cash-in some premium bonds.
o28 February 2020, he received an out of office reply that the adviser was out 
of the office until 3 March 2020.
o28 February 2020, he emailed the adviser again asking whether or not, given 
market uncertainty, the agreed course of action was still a good option, but he didnt receive a response. 
He first raised the tax issue regarding the old advice in January 2015. The adviser 
raising this, as an excuse for his inactivity, is indicative of a lax approach. 
His frustration is to do with the business not executing the course of action agreed in 
October 2019, despite the figures  the adviser suggests he needed  being provided 
on 10 February 2020. 
He agrees it was his decision to execute the agreed plan because of the tax 
advantages of repatriation during the tax year 2019/2020. But the business had 
already provided the advice to encash the bond which theyd accepted. 
The business excuse that it couldnt act until it had received the income figures is 
just an excuse thats cost them dearly. 
The business made the following observations in response to Mr Ms submissions:
Mr M and Ms N may have misunderstood its service. 
In May 2020, the adviser explained that it was a firm of advisers, it provides its clients 
with recommendations which include all the relevant information for its clients to then 
consider the appropriate course of action.
Mr M requested advice regarding the portfolio, which included a bond, which could 
be looked at to encash.
Research needed to be done in order to provide that advice, so it couldnt have 
provided any advice before this was done. 
It found that there had been a miscalculation in the previous tax year based on 
income figures, and so it needed to ensure that the error wasnt repeated and that 
sufficient checks were done beforehand.   
It doesnt consider a month interval to be an unreasonable amount of time. Its whats 
done by its Paraplanner team. The progress wouldnt have been hampered by the 
adviser going on holiday.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Whilst he doesnt doubt Mr Ms recollection, hes seen no evidence that Mr M and Ms 
N were advised to surrender the bond in October 2019, as asserted by Mr M. 
Given what the business said, under COBS 9.2.1. it was obliged to obtain details of 
Mr M and Ms Ns financial situation, before proceeding to make a recommendation. 
Even though the required information was provided by 10 February 2020, this doesnt 
mean that the adviser should have provided a recommendation immediately, and 
before he was in a position to make the recommendation and had checked all the 
details were correct. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
He doesnt understand why the investigator has decided to disregard his points but 
accepts everything said by the business. 
He has a note of the meeting whilst the business has none, which is surely a breach 
of the code of good practice. 
He didnt assert, as suggested by the investigator, that the business advised them at 
the meeting to surrender the bond. He merely said what the business had advised 
them to do, and for the business to deny it now is disingenuous. 
At no point did they request this advice, which was simply offered. 
Research wasnt required as the business had all the information from the adviser 
dealing with their portfolio over the years.The business made no contact until he and Ms N contacted it about needing money 
in January 2020. 
The reality was that after the advice was given and accepted by them, they 
proceeded on the basis that the business would deal with the matter in a timely and 
professional manner.   
Why wouldnt the business have provided the recommendation on the 11 February 
2020? Its reasonable that the whole thing couldve have been turned around in a few 
working days. 
The internal mechanisms of the business are irrelevant. Its just an excuse for not 
doing what it shouldve done. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M and Ms N say, Im unable to 
safely say that the business behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr M and Mrs Ns strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M and Ms N and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I think all the pertinent points that could be made, have been made, by the parties and 
therefore I dont intend to repeat them in my decision. 
It seems to me that Mr M and Ms N encashed their bond of their own volition, despite the 
latest advice not to do so at the time. I appreciate they had their reasons for doing so, but I 
cant blame the business for the consequences of their actions. 
Even if in the October 2019 meeting it was agreed between Mr M and Ms N, and the 
business, that Mr M and Ms N would encash the reminder of their bond in the 2019/2020 tax 
year, I dont think the matter was set in stone come what may. In other words, even if the 
course of action to surrender the bond in the 2019/2020 tax year was agreed, it wasnt 
finalised, such that it couldnt change if market conditions werent favourable. 
For example, it wasnt decided that even if the bond value dropped, they would continue to 
encash the bond, regardless. In my opinion this wouldnt make sense, unless the tax benefit 
was so great that it would offset any loss in bond value, which I dont think was the case. I appreciate theres a difference in the recollection of events by the business and Mr M and 
Ms N, but notwithstanding what was (or wasnt) decided in October 2019, the income 
information was still outstanding which wasnt provided (by Mr M) until February 2020  this 
suggests that the agreed course of action wasnt finalised. I note that on a previous occasion 
the adviser couldnt proceed without this information, so in the circumstances I cant say that 
the business was wrong to request it this time. I dont think this information was simply a 
rubberstamping exercise. 
I note Mr M says that after all the necessary income figures were provided (in February 
2020) the adviser was left to issue a formal letter of advice and execute the necessary 
paperwork, so even on his account the issue wasnt finalised, and matters remained 
outstanding, in the sense that the formal letter of advice couldve been different to what was 
agreed in October 2019. 
In my opinion, theres no evidence to suggest that the adviser was bound by the discussions 
of 2019. In other words, if having received the income figures  which were clearly important 
to the adviser and to this process, regardless of what Mr M thinks  the business was 
entitled and obliged, to offer up to date and correct advise. 
So, if having considered the situation at the time, it didnt think it was the best time/right time 
for Mr M and Ms N to encash the bond given market conditions, it was obliged to offer that 
advice. In the circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been right to advise them to encash the 
bond, simply based on the October 2019 meeting, if this wasnt suitable for them.  
If Mr M and Ms N werent concerned about prevailing market conditions at surrender and 
didnt want their income being considered  which I dont believe was the case  they 
couldve made this abundantly clear to the adviser and insisted that he just encash the bond 
without delay. So, the business couldve done what they wanted, but they wouldve been 
responsible for any adverse consequences. Im mindful that even up to February 2020, Mr M 
was still querying whether (or not), given market uncertainty, the agreed course of action 
was still a good option. This suggests to me that the plan wasnt set in stone and Mr M had 
his own doubts. 
Whilst I appreciate what Mr M says, I dont think it wouldve made a difference, if matters had 
been prepped and ready to go before the adviser had gone away. There were still matters 
that needed to be considered, and I cant blame the business for being cautious with them, 
given the error it made the previous year. But as I mentioned above, if this wasnt something 
that they were concerned about they couldve insisted the adviser proceed regardless. 
In the circumstances, I cant say that the business internal workings are irrelevant or that the 
time taken to consider the income information (supplied in February 2020) and provide 
further advice (in March 2020), in the grand scheme of things, was unreasonable. I 
appreciate Mr M and Mr N will disagree with this conclusion, but I dont think I can blame the 
business for doing what it did. 
It seems to me that there were several key driving factors behind Mr M and Ms Ns decision 
to encash the bond when they did in March 2020. However, I think it was mainly the need for 
cash that led Mr M to take matters into his own hands, and I cant blame the business for 
this. On balance it seems he mightve taken steps to encash the bond regardless.  
I appreciate what Mr M says about the chronology of events, and the business taking its 
time, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that the plan to encash was set in stone. In other 
words, that it should be executed and completed by a specific date come what may.   Whilst I appreciate that Mr M and Ms N did what they had to do  Im mindful Mr M says 
there was a deadline by which the paperwork had to be submitted and they needed the 
money  but I cant blame the business for their actions.    
The bond value at encashment wasnt something that the business couldve predicted or had 
control over. It was subject to numerous factors outside of the business control, therefore I 
cant blame the business for the advice it gave in March 2020, or the value that Mr M and Ms 
N received upon encashment in due course.
I appreciate Mr M and Ms N will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate 
their frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what 
they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman