DRN-3664090
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) following a 
claim for damage at their home. They want RSA to increase its offer of compensation. 
What happened
In July 2020, Mr S and Mrs S suffered a severe escape of water at their home. They 
discovered the leak after water had been escaping in their kitchen for around 8 hours and 
had caused extensive damage. 
Mr S and Mrs S submitted a claim to RSA. For the purposes of this decision I will describe all 
actions by RSA and its agents as having been done by RSA. 
RSA sent an assessor our to inspect the damage and they prepared a report and schedule 
of works. RSA noted that Mr S and Mrs S had valuable antique furniture which required 
special care and restoration where needed. 
At that time it appeared to the assessor that the damage may be relatively limited to the 
kitchen and adjoining rooms. Drying equipment was installed, and Mr S and Mrs S were able 
to remain in their home for the initial weeks.
In August 2020, Mr S and Mrs S tried to bring to RSAs attention that the kitchen did not 
appear to be drying and they believed that water was trapped under the floor, and possibly in 
the walls. 
RSA was slow to respond to Mr S and Mrs Ss concerns and only confirmed that there was 
water trapped under the floor in September 2020. The floor was removed, and further drying 
was carried out. Mr S and Mrs S were moved into alternative accommodation with their pet 
dog. 
The property was confirmed dry in November 2020 and restorative works were able to 
commence. This entailed an extensive strip out and refit. The schedule of works was 
updated and works began in January 2021. 
Works were largely completed by April 2021, but issues with the quality of some repairs 
arose. RSA agreed to cash settle some parts of the repairs and for expenses incurred by Mr 
S and Mrs S. 
Mr S and Mrs S were able to move back home in May 2021, but some works continued after 
this time. Mr S and Mrs S oversaw ongoing repairs and rectification of issues which arose. 
RSA acknowledged that these issues went beyond snagging. Works continued until 
December 2021, when Mr S and Mrs S confirmed that they were happy with the works. 
Mr S and Mrs S complained to RSA. They considered that the delays they had experienced, 
and the number of issues which had required rectification were poor service. 
RSA responded to the complaint in February 2022. It acknowledged that there had been 
delays and that parts of the works were not carried out to a sufficient standard. RSA offered 
Mr S and Mrs S £2250 compensation to reflect their distress and inconvenience. 
Mr S and Mrs S were not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out their view. They did not 
uphold the complaint as they considered that RSA had already made a reasonable offer of 
compensation to reflect the failings in service. The investigator noted that the compensation 
offered would be a high level of compensation to be awarded by our service and they were 
satisfied that the offer was in line with or beyond awards we would make in similar 
circumstances. 
Mr S and Mrs S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. They have 
explained that they were caused significant stress and upheaval over the period of the 
repairs and they believe that this impacted upon their health. They pointed to another case 
of an escape of water where a higher level of compensation was awarded and set out that 
they felt the offer from RSA was not sufficient.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the distressing and frustrating experience that Mr S and Mrs S have been 
through. It is clear that they have faced substantial disruption over the period and it has 
clearly had effects upon them. 
It is important, however, to clarify that we do not look to compensate all distress and 
inconvenience which a consumer has suffered, only that which has been caused by the 
businesss failings. 
In insurance situations especially, even if everything goes right there will be inevitable 
disruption due to the insured event happening. In this case there was an extensive leak and 
that has caused substantial damage. After such a leak, there would always have been very 
disruptive works required to return Mr S and Mrs Ss home to its pre-leak condition. 
I have also borne in mind that the leak and repairs took place whilst the UK was still being 
substantially affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, and during a period when most services 
were disrupted to some degree. 
I have therefore considered what failings were the fault of RSA, and what effect these had 
on Mr S and Mrs S. 
I can see evidence of general delays and some specific delays, which I consider increased 
the drying time and the repair works by several months. Mr S and Mrs S were affected by 
this in that they were consistently chasing progress, and they were away from their home for 
longer than they should have been. 
I also agree that there were failings in the standard of work performed by some of RSAs 
contractors and that the resulting issues required Mr S and Mrs S to oversee rectification. I 
appreciate that this will have been frustrating and unnecessary additional work. 
Mr S and Mrs S have described an inability to sleep over the period, and weight loss due to 
stress. I appreciate this and have taken these effects into account. 
I agree with my colleagues view that the offer from RSA is high for the type of awards we would make in these circumstances, and is reasonable to reflect the impacts caused to Mr S 
and Mrs S from RSAs failures. I therefore do not uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint and do 
not ask RSA to do anything further. 
I understand that this will be disappointing to Mr S and Mrs S but I am satisfied that the offer 
made is in line with our typical awards. 
Mr S and Mrs S have pointed to a previous example case from our website. I consider that 
the case they have referred to is substantially different to their situation and involves 
accessibility needs which were consistently not met. I do not therefore think that it is relevant 
to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint and I do not ask 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman