DRN-1461530
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr D responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. Im persuaded that all the damage that VWFS are 
making refurbishment charges for is beyond what would be considered fair wear and 
tear under the BVRLA guidance. I think the investigator has summarised that 
guidance correctly, but for clarity, I would agree that the front bumper is cracked; the 
three wheels have damage that is beyond 50mm and the BVRLA guidance allows a 
charge to be made if a key is missing.
Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive and therefore unfair. The charges VWFS have made for the 
individual areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen 
raised by their competitors.
Mr D says that, as the car was returned with a lower mileage than he was contracted 
to complete, VWFS should waive some of the charges it has made for refurbishment. 
But I dont think VWFS have to do that. Its not part of the finance agreement that    
Mr D signed up to.
For these reasons, I dont think VWFS need to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman