DRN-3025304
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc treated him when he was in financial 
difficulties and the information the bank had recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr F took out a mortgage with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) in 2007. He borrowed around 
£128,700 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 35 years.
Mr F had been in and out of arrears since 2016 and by the beginning of 2020 he had arrears 
of around £3,000. BOI was discussing with Mr F how hed repay the arrears when the 
Coronavirus pandemic happened.
On around 23 March 2020 Mr F contacted BOI to ask for a payment deferral as he was out 
of work due to the pandemic. BOI agreed to defer Mr Fs payments between March and 
August 2020 in line with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance about payment 
deferrals during the pandemic. 
On around 1 September 2020 Mr F contacted BOI to ask about a further payment break as 
he was still without work and unable to make his mortgage payments. BOI said hed need to 
provide details of his income and expenditure. Initially they said he wouldnt need to provide 
supporting financial documentation, but they told him shortly afterwards theyd made a 
mistake and would need to see it. 
Mr F sent in a completed income and expenditure form at around the beginning of November 
2020. He refused to provide supporting financial documentation on the grounds it wasnt 
legally required, other customers werent being asked for it and a medical condition BOI 
knew about meant gathering the information was stressful for him. Mr F complained BOI 
were treating him unfairly.
BOI responded to an earlier complaint Mr F had made in March 2020 about the handling of 
his request for the March payment deferral and his interest rate. BOI felt initially the new 
points Mr F had raised were part of his March 2020 complaint. But the points Mr F made in 
November, and an additional point he made after hed brought the complaint to this service, 
were new. To be clear, this complaint concerns the following issues:
Mr F was unhappy about the support BOI gave him after the pandemic deferral 
period had ended. That issue was resolved before our investigator considered Mr Fs 
complaint when BOI agreed to a further payment break from December 2020, as a 
concession, and without the need for Mr F to provide more evidence about his 
financial situation, as an exception. 
Mr F was unhappy about the way in which BOI had reported the arrears on his 
mortgage account to credit reference agencies (CRAs). BOI hadnt upheld his 
complaint about that, so our investigator considered it as part of Mr Fs complaint. 
While this service was looking into things, Mr F also complained BOI wouldnt agree 
to extend the term of his mortgage. He wanted this so he could repay the balance he 
owed from the payment deferrals hed had without his contractual monthly mortgage 
payments (CMP) increasing. BOI agreed we could look into that as part of this 
complaint.
Our investigator thought BOI had correctly reported the arrears and arrangements relating to 
Mr Fs mortgage account with the CRAs. And he didnt think BOI were treating Mr F unfairly 
by not offering him a term extension. Since Mr F didnt agree with what our investigator said, 
his complaints been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr F has found his situation very stressful. Hes explained how, following 
an accident, he had to retrain to find work in a new industry. He was already in arrears with 
his mortgage, and had significant unsecured debt, before the pandemic hit. And as a result 
of the pandemic, he was made redundant, which made things worse. Mr Fs also told us his 
medical conditions affect his levels of energy and stress. I understand Mr F has recently 
found a new job. But I am sorry to hear of the difficulties hes had and can understand hes 
concerned about the arrears on his mortgage and his overall financial position.
Turning to Mr Fs complaint points, Ill use headings to make things simpler:
Payment deferral request September 2020
Ive mentioned Mr Fs complaint that BOI wouldnt agree to defer his mortgage payments 
from September 2020 was resolved. BOI agreed to defer payments from December 2020 
onwards once theyd considered his situation and discussed things with him. Mr F was 
reluctant to provide evidence to support the income and expenditure information hed sent in 
because of the impact gathering the information had on his stress levels due to his medical 
condition. BOI agreed to the further payment deferral without it, as an exception. 
I think BOI treated Mr F fairly here. Since Mr F had already had six months of payment 
deferrals under the pandemic guidance, BOI was right to consider his circumstances to 
decide how best to help him. And Id expect BOI to have looked at Mr Fs financial situation 
before agreeing to a concession. Since Mr F wasnt in a position to make any mortgage 
payments as he was still unemployed, I think BOI treated him fairly and reasonably by 
agreeing to the deferral at that time without full information - as an exception.
I mention this here because I think the situation was different to when Mr F later asked for a 
term extension, as Ill explain below.
The credit files
Mr Fs unhappy about how BOI have reported his mortgage account to CRAs. He says its 
meant he cant get credit; its causing him further financial disadvantage, hardship and 
stress; and its preventing him returning to work in the industry hed prefer. He says hed paid 
his mortgage for the two years before the pandemic which BOI havent reflected. I empathise 
with the difficult position Mr F is in. But I dont think BOI have reported the position on his 
mortgage wrongly. BOI have said:
Since Mr F was in arrears on his mortgage from around February 2018, they have been reporting the number of payments that are overdue to the CRAs.
BOI didnt report the payments that werent made during the payment deferral it 
agreed in line with the pandemic guidelines. But they continued to report the arrears 
that Mr F had built up before that payment deferral started.
Since Mr F didnt then start to make payments after the pandemic payment deferral 
ended, BOI reported those further missed payments.
BOI and Mr F agreed another payment deferral in December 2020. Theyd let him 
know in September 2020 when they were discussing things, that the arrangement 
would affect his credit file. BOI reported that an arrangement had been reached and 
continued to report the arrears balance and its increase.
Im satisfied BOI reported the position on Mr Fs mortgage in line with their explanation and 
guidance issued by the ICO, and by the FCA about reporting during the pandemic. 
Ive thought about BOIs explanation about why they wouldnt agree to report Mr Fs arrears 
between September 2020 and December 2020 as an arrangement, when theyd agreed in 
December 2020 to a payment deferral without full financial information. 
BOI felt theyd reported in an appropriate way. They said, although theyd agreed to a 
payment deferral from December 2020 without all the information theyd asked Mr F to 
provide, theyd done that as an exception to help him, taking into account his personal 
circumstances.
BOI were concerned about discrepancies between financial information Mr F provided in 
November and earlier information hed provided. I can see from BOIs records that Mr F had 
been unwilling to provide evidence of his finances before and hed previously said hed used 
funds to pay for other things. He also had a high level of unsecured debt. I can understand 
BOI were concerned he wasnt prioritising his mortgage. 
Situations can also change and its fair that BOI should have up to date information about 
what Mr F can reasonably be expected to pay. Bearing all that in mind, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for BOI to want to have up to date information before deciding on another 
payment deferral. 
On balance, I think BOIs decision to agree to the payment deferral from December 2020 
onwards, and to report an arrangement from then onwards, but not from September 2020 
while they were still considering Mr Fs request, was fair and reasonable.
Term extension
From what Ive seen, BOI were aware of Mr Fs health condition and the stressful effect 
providing information has on him by around November 2020 at the latest. Mr F says he told 
BOI about it earlier and BOI say theyve considered and supported Mr Fs personal 
circumstances for some time. But I dont think exactly when BOI became aware matters. 
Thats because Im considering how BOI treated Mr F when he asked for a term extension 
earlier this year when its clear BOI knew his situation.
Mr F says BOI told him theyd extend the mortgage term at the end of the pandemic deferral 
period. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr F says. But he wants to make a significant change to 
his mortgage. I understand he wants to be able to pay back both the arrears and the 
mortgage over a longer term. Thats likely to involve BOI agreeing to both capitalise the 
arrears and extend the term. Although extending the term might lower Mr Fs monthly payments for the CMP and arrears, he would have to pay more interest overall over the term 
of the mortgage. Id expect BOI, as a responsible lender, to ensure they have full financial 
information available before considering whether such a change is appropriate in Mr Fs 
circumstances. 
Since Mr F was unemployed when he asked about extending the term, there was no 
certainty about when hed be able to pay towards the mortgage and the arrears that had built 
up before, during and after the pandemic payment deferral period. Extending the term 
wouldnt have helped him in those circumstances.
It was also possible hed get a new job that would enable him to make the higher payments 
needed to meet his CMP and pay towards the arrears. Extending the term could have led to 
him having a mortgage that tied him in for longer than it had to and was more expensive for 
him overall than it needed to be.
I acknowledge Mr F says hes not worried about the possible downsides of extending the 
mortgage term. But, broadly, BOI are obliged to consider them under the rules that govern 
them and to make sure any changes to the mortgage are in Mr Fs best interests. Given     
Mr Fs situation, I dont think a term extension was in his best interests when he initially 
asked for it. So, I dont think BOI were wrong to refuse one.
As Ive explained, I think its right that BOI consider Mr Fs full financial situation before 
coming to a decision about whether they will be prepared to extend the mortgage term or 
make other changes. So, I wont direct BOI to extend the term without that.
Id encourage BOI and Mr F to cooperate now, particularly since Mr F has a new job, about 
how Mr F can provide the information BOI require to consider how they can best help Mr F 
going forwards. If there are any reasonable adjustments Mr F thinks would help him provide 
that information more easily, he should let BOI know and they should consider them fairly. 
And Mr F might find it helpful to get support with that and advice about his financial situation 
from an independent financial adviser. 
Having carefully considered everything, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mr F, I 
dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman