DRN-3058542
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Santander UK Plc would not agree to extend the term of 
their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out an interest only mortgage with Santander in 2008. They borrowed just 
over £362,000 over a term of 12 years and 2 months.
Mr and Mrs E have said they asked Santander to extend the term of their mortgage for five 
years. But Santander declined as this would result in the mortgage running beyond their 70th 
birthdays  which was outside of its lending policy.
Mr and Mrs E said they were unhappy with this decision and found media articles where 
Santander had agreed to an extension, outside of its usual criteria, for different customers. 
So, with the end of their mortgage term approaching, they again asked Santander for an 
extension of five years. They explained that they didnt want to sell their property and 
relocate when the original term was ending so an extension would allow them to move at a 
time more suitable for them. Or alternatively it would allow them to refinance through equity 
release on more acceptable terms  as their age five years later wouldve made this more 
appropriate.
Santander again declined the application, so Mr and Mrs E complained to our service. They 
said they didnt think Santander was treating them fairly by not agreeing to the requested 
extension.
While the case was with our service, an extension of two years and three months was 
agreed by Santander - meaning the mortgage was due to run until December 2022. It has 
said this was for forbearance and to assist Mr and Mrs E.
One of our investigators considered matters but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. She noted it had been agreed when the mortgage was taken that it would be repaid, 
and it wasnt unfair of Santander to expect this to happen. And she didnt think it had acted 
unreasonably by taking its usual lending criteria into account when considering the request. 
And so, she didnt feel the decision was unfair or that Santander was obliged to extend the 
term. She also felt the fact there was no obligation on Santander meant its subsequent 
decision to agree an extension, albeit shorter that what Mr and Mrs E requested, was fair.
Mr and Mrs E did not agree. They still didnt think Santander had treated them fairly. And 
they said that it had only agreed to the extension it had because theyd complained to 
Santanders CEO. So, they felt their initial request hadnt been fairly considered and theyd 
been caused unnecessary distress.
As Mr and Mrs E did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E have explained that their preference was for the term of the mortgage to be 
extended by five years. Theyve said this wouldve allowed them to enjoy their existing 
property for a further five years and remain close to family for that period  after which time 
they could relocate and downsize. Or, the extra five years would also have given them 
further options for refinancing. But while this was their preference, Im conscious the 
mortgage agreement made between Mr and Mrs E and Santander was that, when the term 
expired in 2020, the balance owed would be repaid. So, I dont think it is unreasonable that 
Santander expected this to happen.
Santander has provided evidence of its lending policy for interest only borrowing. And this is, 
that it is generally unwilling to lend on an interest only basis beyond a customers 70th 
birthday. 
Santanders lending policy is a matter of its commercial judgement. With that said, Id expect 
Santander to consider requests and applications on their own individual merits and, in 
respect of Mr and Mrs Es request, take account of their individual circumstances and 
consider making exceptions where appropriate.
Santander has said that it did think about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances. But while it was 
their preference not to repay the mortgage and extend the term for five years, Santander 
said there was sufficient equity in the property to do so now. And there would be an 
additional cost to Mr and Mrs E as a result of the extension  the interest payments for five 
years. So, with those things in mind, and bearing in mind Mr and Mrs E had agreed to repay 
the balance when they took the mortgage, it didnt think it needed to set aside its usual 
lending criteria. And on the face of it, I dont think this is unreasonable.
Santander has indicated that, amongst other reasons, one of the considerations in relation to 
its policy is around affordability. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) previously carried out a Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). This led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments  including around affordability and repayment strategies for interest 
only mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this which allow some of these 
new rules, particularly around affordability assessments, to be set aside in certain 
circumstances, if the change being requested to a mortgage was in the customers best 
interests. 
Its important to note, though, that these rules dont oblige lenders to make changes to 
mortgages. They merely say that changes dont have to be refused  if the criteria are met  
on grounds of affordability or interest only repayment strategy. 
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage falls into the category of an agreement under which certain new 
rules relating to affordability can be set aside. This is because it was taken out before April 
2014, was secured by a first charge on their property and they werent looking to borrow any 
additional money. So, if the transaction was in their best interests, Santander could set aside 
its assessment of affordability. And Ive thought about whether it shouldve done so here.Im not sure though that the extension was in Mr and Mrs Es best interests. There was a 
significant extra cost involved with the extension  interest payments on the outstanding 
balance over a further five years. And while Mr and Mrs E said they intended to continue 
working, circumstances can change. There was also the risk that their property may fall in 
value, leaving them with less equity. The housing market is unpredictable and subject to 
fluctuations. And while prices have increased steadily in recent years, and Mr and Mrs E 
believe their property value would only increase, this could not be guaranteed. There was 
also no guarantee that refinancing would be achieved. 
So, agreeing to a five-year extension of the term wouldve created significant additional cost 
and risk for Mr and Mrs E. And so, in the circumstances, while theyve said they wanted to 
extend the mortgage, I dont think doing so was in their best interests. It seems there are 
options available to Mr and Mrs E now that would enable them to repay the mortgage, they 
would just prefer not to do so. So, taking this, and what Santander has said about why it 
didnt feel it appropriate to set aside its usual criteria, into account I dont think Santanders 
decision to decline Mr and Mrs Es request for a five-year term extension was unfair.
Mr and Mrs E have said they dont think this was actually considered by Santander at the 
time. And this caused them significant distress. I know Mr and Mrs E were unhappy that 
Santander did not agree to their request. But the information Ive seen indicates the request 
was considered. And for the reasons Ive explained, I think that it was fairly declined. So, 
while they were upset at the decision, as it has been taken fairly, I dont think Santander can 
be considered responsible for this upset.
Mr and Mrs E have also said they think the decision was unfair because theyd found media 
articles about an extension Santander agreed for another set of customers. Our service 
assesses complaints on their own individual merits. Much like, as Ive explained, Id expect 
Santander to have considered Mr and Mrs Es request based on their circumstances. So, 
while Ive taken on board what Mr and Mrs E have said, I dont think any agreement made by 
Santander in other individual cases means they were obliged to accept Mr and Mrs Es 
request for a term extension.
As Ive said, a compromise was made and an extension of two years and three months to 
the mortgage was agreed. Santander has said that this was for forbearance as the mortgage 
had reached the end of its term. Mr and Mrs E have said they feel this was only agreed 
because they complained.
Whatever the reason for this agreement being made, I think it was fair of Santander to agree 
to it. Repayment of the outstanding mortgage balance had become due. And this agreement 
meant Mr and Mrs E had additional time to make alternative arrangements and meant they 
would avoid any costs associated with litigation  provided repayments were maintained. 
I also dont think the agreement of this extension meant Santanders previous decision to 
deny the request for a five-year term extension was unfair. As Ive explained, I think 
Santander acted reasonably when it declined that request. And the subsequent agreement 
made, at the point the balance was due in full, doesnt change my view of that.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Santander has acted unreasonably. And so, I 
dont intend to require it to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman