DRN-4110430
The complaint
Miss A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed her bank account and recorded 
information about her with CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service.
What happened
Miss A had an account with HSBC. In June 2022, Miss A received several payments into her 
account, which the bank identified as fraudulent. That is the holders of the account shad 
been the victims of scams and hadnt authorised the payments. 
HSBC asked Miss A about the payments. She said that she had sold cryptocurrency to the 
individuals via an online trading platform. And she provided evidence to the bank to support 
her explanation. HSBC blocked Miss As account whilst it reviewed the information Miss A 
provided and the reports from the other banks regarding the scams. Following its review, it 
placed a fraud marker against Miss As name with CIFAS, the Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System. And it decided to close Miss As account immediately. 
After learning that HSBC had recorded a marker against her, Miss A complained to HSBC 
and asked them to remove the marker as she said it was causing other banks to close her 
accounts and remove money from these accounts. HSBC looked into Miss As complaint but 
said it wouldnt remove the marker. So, Miss A brought her complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As complaint. He thought Miss As explanation 
was plausible and that HSBC hadnt done enough to show that Miss A was directly involved 
in any wrongdoing. He said that HSBC should arrange for the removal of the marker and pay 
Miss A £300 compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset which shed suffered. 
HSBC agreed to the adjudicators suggestion, but Miss A didnt think the compensation 
suggested was enough to put things right. She suggested compensation of £10,000,000 
would be more appropriate and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think that the banks offer made following the adjudicators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve Miss As complaint. 
The adjudicator said that he thought Miss As explanation for the fraudulent funds entering 
her account  that she had sold cryptocurrency to people via an online trading platform was 
plausible. Because HSBC agreed to remove the CIFAS marker, I dont ned to consider 
whether in fact Miss As explanation is true, and so I make no comment on that.
I do need to however consider whether the offer of £300 compensation is sufficient. Miss A 
as explained that she is seeking a substantial amount of compensation to resolve her 
complaint. Miss A has said that she had a number of accounts she held with other banks 
and financial businesses were closed as a result of the marker being applied by HSBC. 
Shes also said that another bank took money from her bank account, so she has lost out 
financially. She hasnt however, provided evidence that persuades me that is the case. I also 
cant hold HSBC liable for another bank removing funds from Miss As account that she had 
with them. That is a matter Miss A needs to take up with that particular bank. 
Miss A has said that her mental health suffered as a result of HSBCs actions. She has 
provided a medical note from her doctor dated February 2023, showing that she was 
depressed and unable to work for a month. I recognise Miss A has been very upset by the 
bank accusing her of fraud and recording a CIFAS marker against her name. Ive also 
considered the sick certificate Miss A has kindly provided about how this matter has 
impacted her. Having done so, I consider the level of compensation suggested is fair and 
proportionate for the distress and inconvenience Miss A was caused. So, I won be 
increasing the level of compensation. For completeness, I will however, make a formal 
award.
In reaching this conclusion I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual 
loss, trouble, and upset caused to the consumer by something a financial business did 
wrong. We are not here to punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as 
a means of punishing a business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. 
Finally, Ive looked at HSBCs decision to close Miss As account. Banks are entitled to end 
their business relationship with a customer, as long as its done fairly and is in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Miss As account say that 
HSBC can close an account in certain circumstances immediately. Given the concerns 
HSBC had about how Miss A was operating her account, I dont think thats unreasonable. 
So, it was entitled to close the account as its already done and end its relationship with 
Miss A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that to resolve Miss As complaint HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should if it hasnt already done so remove the CIFAS marker it has recorded 
against Miss As name and pay her £300 compensation in recognition for the trouble and 
upset to which she has been put.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman