DRN-3387662
The complaint
Mr B has complained NewDay Ltd gave him a credit card with subsequent credit limit 
increases without properly assessing his ability to repay.
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with NewDay in February 2018. NewDay carried out credit 
checks. As Mr B passed their lending criteria they gave him a credit card with a credit limit of 
£900.
Within the following year NewDay increased Mr Bs credit limit three times resulting in an 
overall limit of £4,000 by February 2019. Mr B found it difficult to make the repayments on 
this and other credit cards. During the same period the overdraft he had with his bank had 
also grown substantially.
NewDay didnt believe theyd done anything wrong. Mr B met their lending criteria and theyd 
undertaken checks when assessing whether to increase his credit limits.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed NewDay had not done enough to show Mr B should have been 
given a credit card. He asked them to write off all interest and fees Mr B had been charged 
over the period hed had this card and offset this against what had been paid by Mr B. If this 
resulted in Mr B having overpaid, then money should be refunded to Mr B along with 8% 
simple interest a year.
NewDay didnt agree to this outcome. They believed thered been no indication that Mr B 
could fall into financial difficulties. Mr Bs complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Mr B and 
NewDay. Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here.
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by NewDay and 
Mr B. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 7 March 2022 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. Specifically, NewDay will be aware of their 
obligations under the FCA about assessing affordability and a customers ability to repay.
I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive the decision Im making.
Firstly, I have to say NewDays response to our investigators view that there were no 
indication of financial strain rather stretches credibility. At a minimum NewDay has admitted 
Mr B was in default on a range of debts totalling £3,300 at the time the credit card was 
initially granted.
NewDay checked Mr Bs income but didnt feel the existing default data should lead them to 
carry out any further checks. As our investigator showed, Mr Bs income was mostly fully 
committed at the time the credit card was granted. I appreciate that its unlikely a credit card 
provider would necessarily check bank statements. Therefore NewDay would be unaware of 
Mr Bs regular monthly spending on gambling which was up to £200.
It is fair that different credit card lenders adopt their own lending criteria and decide what 
level of risk theyre prepared to accept as a lender. However, the risk of this is that they 
accept a customer with outstanding debts, like Mr B, and debts may become unaffordable.  
I can see from the credit card statements Mr B most recently provided, that he was initially 
making full or substantial repayments right from the start. So I can see immediately why on 
the basis of this card alone, why NewDay may have wished to increase Mr Bs credit limit, 
I can see NewDay carried out checks when these credit limit increases were applied, I cant 
see they took notice of what these were showing.
The evidence shows Mr B was increasingly reliant on credit. This included his bank overdraft 
which increased from £500 to £2,750 over the same period before NewDay increased Mr Bs 
credit limit to £2,400. At no stage did NewDay wonder why this may be the case or note the 
likelihood that Mr B would be repaying his spending on this card by using other borrowing. 
Thats seen as an indication of unaffordability.
This didnt alert NewDay to carry out any additional checks on Mr Bs affordability. By 
February 2019 when NewDay increased Mr Bs credit limit for the third time, Mr B was only 
making boosted minimum repayments to his credit card balance.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont believe the initial credit card application was unaffordable. 
Mr Bs credit limit was set at £900 and his repayments met his outgoings.
However things did escalate as his credit limit was increased about three-fold to £2,400 just 
three months after Mr B took out the card. These and subsequent increases I do believe 
were unaffordable.
Putting things right
As I dont believe theres sufficient evidence to show the credit limit increases were 
affordable, Im going to ask NewDay to put things right. This is a slightly amended outcome 
to the one proposed by our investigator. I have already confirmed this to Mr B who has raised no objection. Partly I suspect as he paid no interest or charges until September 2018.
The first credit limit was applied on 22 May 2018. From that date NewDay will have to refund 
all interest and charges. That total can firstly be applied to offset Mr Bs current debt. If this 
means that Mr B has overpaid, then NewDay must refund that amount to Mr B, along with 
8% simple interest a year.
NewDay has already referred Mr Bs debt to a debt recovery company so will also have to 
ensure this third party are aware of this decision. If there remains an outstanding balance for 
Mr B to repay, I see no reason for his existing repayment plan to change.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct NewDay Ltd to:
Refund all interest and charges applied to Mr Bs credit card account from 22 May 
2018 to date:
Reduce the outstanding balance by that amount; and 
Repay any overpayment to Mr B along with 8% simple interest to that amount from 
the date it was applied to the date of settlement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman