DRN-2241990
The complaint
Mr D and Miss O complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc handled their
claim following an escape of water into their home. Theyre also unhappy about the amount
they were offered to settle the claim and the compensation they were offered. 
What happened
Mr D and Miss O have household buildings and contents insurance with RSA. On 12 June
2019 their home was damaged when there was an escape of water from the flat above
theirs.
Theyre unhappy about the time it took to resolve their claim, the work carried out, the
settlement figure they were offered, the poor level of communication with them, and between
RSA and the loss adjustors, contractors and surveyors they appointed, and their living
conditions while the claim was being resolved. And they dont think its fair that after all the
problems they experienced RSA still deducted their £350 excess from the settlement they
received.
On 13 June 2019 Mr D and Miss O contacted RSA to make a claim. They told RSA that Mr
D had come home from work the previous day to find water pouring through the light fittings
in their hall and bathroom. He said there was visible damage to the hall and bathroom
ceilings, the walls, the wood flooring and a chaise lounge. And there was damp around the
light fittings and switches, so they were worried to use any of the electrics.
RSA sent out an electrician about a week after the claim was made to carry out an electrical
test. But Mr D and Miss O say that he didnt put the cables back correctly and left a light
switch at an angle.
RSA appointed loss adjustors to attend at the property to prepare a report on the damage
and the work that was required. But they werent booked to attend until 10 July 2019, almost
a month after the damage occurred. Before this, contractors had attended the property and
carried out some preliminary work.
Before the loss adjustors attended, Mr D called RSA to ask what was happening with the
claim. He was concerned that his neighbours didnt appear to have fixed the leak and were
now blocking his calls. He also told RSA that they were unable to use their electric shower,
so had been using their shower that relied on their hot water cylinder, but that was now
leaking so they had no heating, or hot water. Mr D was told that this wasnt something that
would be covered by his buildings insurance policy, but might be covered by home
emergency, as they had no heating or hot water. Mr D told RSA hed call a plumber and get
back to them if needed.
A loss adjustor attended the property on 10 July 2019 and prepared a schedule of works,
dated 11 July 2019, which was sent to Mr D and Miss O. Mr D contacted RSA the day this
was received to say that werent happy with the schedule or costings. He said they had 
seven spotlights in their hall, which hadnt been included; there were two layers of 
plasterboard to be removed, and while this was noted, only one was costed for; only one 
ceiling, which was double-layered had been taken down, and Mr D was unhappy about 
having to take more time off work for this to be done. Hed also been told that when the 
bathroom ceiling was taken down, the tiles would be disturbed, but replacing these hadnt 
been included in the quote.
RSA agreed to get the additional items included in the schedule of works, and feedback to
the contractors appointed to arrange drying the property, as theyd expected it to be well
underway, but it hadnt been started.
Mr D called RSA again on 15 July 2019 as five weeks after the damage happened, drying
hadnt been started. Contractors had removed the first layer of the damaged ceilings, but
they hadnt removed the debris this had created, he had live wires hanging from his ceiling,
he didnt know what was happening with the second layer of the ceiling, and the contractors
were refusing to do anything more until the property was dry.
Mr D chased RSA again on 18 July 2019. RSA contacted the contractors who said they were
arranged for the electrics to be checked and that once this was done, theyd install the drying
equipment. This still hadnt been done on 26 July 2019, by which time Mr D and Miss O had
been without lights in their kitchen and bathroom for over six weeks, so they raised a formal
complaint.
RSA discussed the issues Mr D had raised with the contractors who confirmed that the
kitchen lights had all been working before the ceilings were taken down, and that
no power was going to the switch cables. They reported difficulties establishing exactly
where the problem originated. They accepted that a window at the property had been left
open and that theyd forgotten to book a van to remove the debris. They reported having
difficulty contacting Mr D.
RSA spoke to Mr D on 7 August 2019 and agreed to send him the comments from the
contractors. He was told that some of the kitchen ceiling might have to be taken down to
feed wiring through. Mr D asked to be sent details of exactly what was being proposed. He
wasnt sure why the contractors said they hadnt been able to contact him, as he said he
always replied to any messages.
Dryers were finally installed in late July/early August 2019 and the property was declared dry
on 8 August 2019.
Mr D and Miss O obtained their own quotes for replacing the flooring in the hall. RSA
considered the quotes to be too high. So, a further loss adjustors visit was arranged for 5
September 2019. But unfortunately, until he attended the property, and was advised of this
by Mr D, he hadnt been told that this was a re-visit, or what he was there to do.
His report was sent to RSA on 6 September 2019. When this was reviewed RSA felt that
certain work had been omitted and Mr D was advised of this on 11 September 2019. RSA
called Mr D and Miss O on 14 September 2019 to discuss the reviewed scope of work, but
as they hadnt seen this document, a copy was sent for them to review before the discussion
proceeded.
On 16 September 2019 RSA sent Mr D and Miss O the updated schedule of works for them
to consider. Theyd removed the replacement ceiling costs as theyd arranged for their
contractors to repair the kitchen lighting, and theyd be repairing the ceiling once this was
done. RSA said that if Mr D and Miss O were happy with the schedule, they could discuss a
settlement figure. In respect of the flooring they were only prepared to offer a figure of
£1647.33, the sum their supplier said the flooring could be replaced for, as they considered
the quote of £2605.08, which Mr D and Miss O had obtained, to be too high.On 18 September 2019 Mr D asked RSA to confirm that the offer in respect of the floor was
on a like for like basis. This was confirmed on 25 September 2019. Mr D then raised a
number of points about the schedule of works which RSA replied to on 3 October 2019 and
sent a further revised schedule of works.
On 8 October 2019 RSA sent Mr D a final scope of works together with a settlement offer.
They acknowledged that during the first visit to their home the true extent of the works
required wasnt fully established, so theyd arranged a second visit to ensure the scope of
works was correct. Based on the final scope of works they made a settlement offer of
£5387.58 and an a further £1647.33 for the flooring. They confirmed that the work on the
lighting and the ceilings would commence the following day and should be completed by 16
October 2019.
In respect of Mr D and Miss Os complaint, RSA accepted they could have deal with the
claim in a more timely manner and debris was left on site for longer than anticipated. They
acknowledged that Mr D and Miss O had been left without lights in their kitchen for an
extended period and the general handling of their claim hadnt been satisfactory. Although
they also said theyd had to rely on others to validate the claim, and the property had to be
dried before reinstatement works could commence. They offered £350 for the inconvenience
Mr D and Miss O had experienced.
On 12 October 2019 RSA sent Mr D a revised settlement offer of £4651.78 and £1647.33 for
the flooring, as thy said their earlier offer had included the cost of the works in the kitchen,
which they were arranging to have completed. They said they were upholding the complaint,
as the service theyd been provided had been poor, and increased their compensation offer
to £500.
Mr D and Miss O werent happy with the amount they were offered to replace their flooring,
or the compensation RSA offered them, so they complained to our service.  
They asked us to consider the following issues: -
Their bathroom window was left open after one of the contractors left the property
when no was home.
A live electrical wire was left uncovered and hanging down in the hallway. They were
told this was illegal and dangerous.
Flooring and ceiling materials werent removed in days, as promised. This took
weeks and had to be chased.
When these materials were finally removed, bits of plasterboard, screws and wet
plasterboard residue were left on their outside steps.
There were errors in the flooring quote.
There were numerous errors in the Scope of Works despite two site visits.
They were without lights in their kitchen for over 16 weeks, and although RSA sent a
electrician he didnt identify or resolve the issue.
The light switch in the kitchen was re-installed at an angle after the initial electrical
tests.
When the second surveyor attended the property, he wasnt told it was a re-visit, or
why hed been sent.
The ceilings in the bathroom and hallway were taken down over two visits, as there
were double layers of plasterboard. This was noted at the initial inspection, so a
second visit shouldnt have been necessary.
There was such a long delay in installing the drying equipment that the contractors
questioned whether it was needed.The earth wire to the light in their en-suite bathroom wasnt reattached properly after
the initial electrical tests. As a result, the lights worked only intermittently which was
very inconvenient, especially as they couldnt use their main bathroom due to
damage from the leak.
Due to the delay and multiple visits by contractors and surveyors Mr D had to more
time off work than should have been necessary.
They should have received £2,605.08 for the flooring that had to be replaced. As the
amount RSA offered wasnt for like for like replacement.
Given all the delay and how their claim was dealt with they felt RSA should have
waived their £350 policy excess.
The £500 compensation RSA had offered wasnt enough for the trouble and upset
theyd experienced.
Our investigator considered the case. She thought it was reasonable for RSA to deduct Mr D
and Miss Os £350 policy excess from the cash settlement they received. She said that as
theyd made a claim on their policy, the excess was payable, regardless of whether things
had gone wrong, or not.
Mr D and Miss O had replaced their flooring for the amount RSA offered them. Because of
this, our investigator said she couldnt verify the quote theyd received, so she wasnt able to
ask RSA to increase the amount theyd paid for the flooring.
Our investigator felt that generally the compensation RSA had offered was fair, but RSA did
take an unreasonable length of time to repair the lighting in Mr D and Miss Os kitchen. RSA
suggested that Mr D and Miss O had contributed to the delay but were unable to provide any
evidence to confirm this. So, she said RSA should pay a further £100 compensation.
RSA were unhappy with our investigators opinion as they felt the compensation theyd
offered was reasonable, but they accepted it because of the small amount involved. Mr D
and Miss O were unhappy with our investigators opinion, as they felt she hadnt considered
all theyd told her about how RSA had dealt with their claim, or the impact it had on them.
Since our investigator provided her opinion, weve asked Mr D and Miss O to provide further
information about their living conditions while their claim was ongoing, and the impact on
them.
Theyve told us that they were without working lights in their kitchen for about four or five
months. Their kitchen has six spotlights and downlights, which theyd normally use most of
the time, as the room is only bright when its sunny. They had a lamp they could use, but this
wasnt ideal, as the cable was a trip hazard, and a light on their extractor hood. But these
only provided about 40% of their normal lighting, so cooking was difficult, they used their
oven or microwave, rather than the hob, and they stopped eating in the kitchen. They also
have two indoor cats, who tend to chew things. The cats had to be kept in their room, away
from the cables when the lamp was being used, and they werent happy about this.
They also told us that throughout the claim they had to chase RSA to get anything done, and
then often call the contractors direct. RSA sent an electrician out to check the light in their
en-suite bathroom about a week after they made their claim. But he didnt put the cables
back correctly and he replace the light switch at an angle. And it then took two to two and a
half months for RSA to send out another electrician.
Mr D and Miss O were unhappy with the amount RSA offered to replace the flooring in their 
hall, as they didnt believe the offer represented a like for like replacement. The property 
used to be a beauticians and the flooring was high quality hardwood. They told us the quote they obtained was for a similar standard replacement. Where the flooring had been removed 
their cats were pulling up the underlay. Mr D was also allergic to the underlay, which the cats 
were spreading around the property on their paws. So, when they received the money for 
the flooring from RSA, they decided to have wood laminate fitted. They were able to do this 
for the amount RSA had offered, and theyre happy with the result.
They were also unable to close their bathroom door when it was in use. As they had to use a
lamp for light in the bathroom. Miss O was embarrassed by this and didnt invite friends over
until the work was completed.
They also told us that they had no ceiling in their hall for about four months. At the time, they
had very noisy upstairs neighbours and had to put up with children racing around above
them, with the parents shouting at them, at all hours of the day and night, and on one
occasion a mid-week all night party. Because of the noise Mr D found it very difficult to sleep
and had to wear noise reducing headphones. But they accept they didnt specifically tell RSA
about the problems with the noise.
The case came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 28 August 2020. In 
it I said:
RSA have acknowledged that there were delays in dealing with Mr D and Miss Os claim, but
theyve suggested that these arose because of the number of contractors involved. Theyve
also suggested that Mr D and Miss O contributed to the delay by not providing quotations
RSA had requested in respect of the kitchen lighting. Although when our investigator asked
them to provide proof of this, they couldnt do so.
RSA have also accepted that the level of service Mr D and Miss O received during their
claim wasnt of the standard theyd expect.
Where a property has sustained water damage, theres always going to be a degree of
disruption while the claim is investigated, and repairs are carried out. But here it seems that
some of the contractors RSA appointed, caused further problems, which made living
conditions, which were already difficult because of the water damage, even worse.
In any case involving water damage its going to be necessary for reinstatement work to be
carried out by a number of contractors. Id expect RSA and the loss adjustors and specialists
they appointed to be experienced in dealing with such claims. So the work that was required
should have been identified on 10 July 2019, when the first loss adjustor carried out his
inspection.
This inspection was almost a month after the damage occurred. And the schedule of works
didnt include all the work that needed to be carried out. Mr D and Miss O had to contact
RSA to point out the errors in the schedule, and even after this it wasnt correct. The
schedule did note that the property had double boarded ceilings. But this information doesnt
appear to have been passed on to the contractors, which meant the ceiling had to be taken
down in two stages, rather than one. And this led to further delay.
In addition to this when the second loss adjustor carried out his inspection, in September
2019, he wasnt told it was a second visit and he was given no instructions about the
purpose of his visit. He records this in his report. And once again the schedule of works
prepared after this visit, was incomplete and inaccurate. Leading to further delay and Mr D
and Miss O having to contact RSA and the contractors to sort this out.
The first electrician who attended the property, didnt correctly replace the cabling, which
then took months to sort out. And when the first layer of the ceilings was being taken down,the kitchen lighting, which had previously been working, was damaged so Mr D and Miss O
were left without proper lighting in their kitchen for four to five months. I accept what theyve
told us about the impact that this had on their lives, and I havent seen any evidence that
they contributed to the delay in this being resolved.
Mr D and Miss O werent present when all the contractors attended their property. A key safe
was in use so the contractors could get access without them always needing to take time off
work. Theyve told us that one of the contractors left a bathroom window open, so the
property wasnt secure. Clearly more care should have been taken to leave the property
secure. Another contractor left a live electrical wire hanging from the ceiling in the hallway,
which an engineer told Mr D and Miss O was unsafe. Mr D raised this with RSA but it took
some weeks for this to dealt with. I dont think this should have taken so long to resolve.
And it took so long to complete the electrical checks needed before the drying equipment
could be installed, that the property had almost dried out before the dryers were installed.
Mr D and Miss O accept that they didnt tell RSA about the problem with noise from their
upstairs neighbours. But they lived in a ground floor flat, so I think it would be reasonable to
expect RSA to appreciate that having no ceilings wasnt ideal and do what they could, to
resolve the claim as quickly as possible. But this didnt happen.
Mr D and Miss O are unhappy with the offer RSA for the flooring in their hallway. They felt
the quotes RSA obtained werent for a like for like replacement. But as theyve been able to
replace the flooring for the amount RSA offered, and theyre happy with the replacement, I
dont think I can ask RSA to pay anything more in respect of the flooring.
Mr D and Miss O are also unhappy that they were required to pay their £350 policy excess,
and that despite all the problems with their claim RSA werent prepared to waive this. As
theyd made a claim on their policy the terms and conditions say that they excess is payable.
So I cant say that RSA did anything wrong in deducting this from the settlement Mr D and
Miss O received.
Im satisfied that there was a significant delay arising from RSAs handling of Mr D and Miss
Os claim. As a result of this Im persuaded that they suffered considerable trouble and
upset, far more that Id expect in the normal course of a water damage claim. And to put
things right I require RSA to pay them a further £350 compensation, in addition to the £500
theyve already paid them.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr D and Miss Os complaint.
The parties have all confirmed receipt of my provisional decision. Mr D and Miss O havent 
made any comments. RSA have said that theyre awaiting my final decision so they can 
send a further payment to Mr D and Miss O.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RSA have indicated they accept my provisional decision, and Mr D and Miss O havent 
raised any further points for me to consider, I see no reason to review that decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr D and Miss Os complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. And to put things right I require them to pay Mr D and Miss O a further £350 compensation for the 
trouble and upset they experienced, in addition to the £500 theyve already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman