DRN-4102964
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about a mortgage they hold with Topaz Finance Limited 
trading as Melanite Mortgages. Their complaint can be summarised into the following points:
The information Melanite reported to the credit reference agencies about the status of 
the mortgage account between January and June 2021.
The increase in Mr and Mrs Bs monthly payments.
The level of support Melanite has offered to Mr and Mrs B.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out this mortgage in 2009 through a mortgage broker. They borrowed 
£240,000 (plus £7,555 fees) over a 32-year term on an interest-only basis.
The interest rate was explained in the mortgage offer as A Variable Rate which tracks 
3 month sterling LIBOR, currently 1.30%, plus a margin of 3.30% to give a current rate 
payable of 4.60%. The rate will track 3 months sterling LIBOR until the loan is redeemed in 
full, or until the term of the loan has expired (whichever event occurs first). 
And If LIBOR changes (before or after the loan) you will be notified of the change in Interest 
Rate and the corresponding change in your Monthly Payment.
LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) is based on 3 Month Sterling LIBOR and is set 
quarterly with effect from 1st March, 1st June, 1st September and 1st December each year.
In January 2021 Mrs B phoned Melanite to ask for a payment holiday due to Mr Bs ill health 
meaning he wasnt currently working. Melanite said it was unable to offer payment holidays, 
but it could look into a payment concession; that is, Mr and Mrs B would make a reduced 
monthly payment for a set period of time and it would be reported as an arrangement on 
their credit files rather than arrears. It also meant they wouldnt incur arrears fees and 
collections activity. There was a discussion about the fact it would impact Mr and Mrs Bs 
credit files, and Mrs B said that was the least of her worries, and also said they were in a 
debt management plan for their unsecured debts. It was agreed that for January and 
February 2021 Mr and Mrs B would pay £80 a month rather than their contractual monthly 
payment (CMP) of around £700.
A letter was issued on 12 January 2021 confirming the arrangement.
In March 2021 Mrs B phoned Melanite as Mr B was still receiving treatment and wasnt likely 
to be back at work until June 2021. It was agreed that Mr and Mrs B would carry on paying 
£80 a month for March, April and May 2021. The impact on their credit files was again 
discussed, and a complaint was raised about the fact Covid-19 payment holidays didnt need 
income and expenditure checks and didnt impact peoples credit files, but this would even 
though it was due to Mr Bs serious ill health. 
A letter was issued on 5 March 2021 confirming the arrangement.
The complaint was responded to on 10 March 2021. Melanite explained that the Covid-19 
payment holidays Mr and Mrs B had taken from April to June 2020 were a Government 
announcement so it was unable to comment on the fairness of those being available to all. 
But in terms of what was happening now it said, the issue wasnt Covid, rather it was Mr Bs 
ill-health, and the regulator requires lenders to fully consider a customers financial 
circumstances, and it had a duty to report information to the credit reference agencies to 
reflect the status of the account. It acknowledged the current situation wasnt Mr and Mrs Bs 
choice, but as it affected their ability to meet their monthly mortgage payments that needed 
to be reflected on their credit files.
In June 2021 Mrs B called Melanite. She said whilst Mr B had returned to work and they 
could meet the full CMP that month, they werent in a position yet to address the arrears. 
The call handler confirmed the arrears balance as just over £3,000 and it was agreed that 
the situation would be reviewed again in July.
On 30 June 2021 the full CMP of around £700 was collected by direct debit, and then on 
5 July 2021 Mr and Mrs C cleared the outstanding arrears.
In the meantime, on 12 April 2021, Melanite had written to Mr and Mrs B about the interest 
rate on their account. That letter said:
We are writing to tell you about a change that may affect your mortgage later this year.
You have a mortgage where the interest rate that you currently pay or, if you are currently 
on a fixed rate, will pay once that fixed rate ends, is calculated by reference to the London 
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Our regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has 
stated that the way in which LIBOR is currently calculated will not continue to be 
sustainable after the end of the year. The FCA has asked firms to consider what they could 
do to ensure that customers are not negatively impacted by this.
We are currently reviewing the information provided by the FCA and other industry groups 
to consider what options may be available to you. This letter is for information purposes 
only; we will be in touch in the coming months setting out more detail once this is known to 
us.
The frequently asked questions enclosed with that letter provided further information.
A further letter was sent on 1 November 2021, which said:
We wrote to you recently to explain that the London Interbank Offered Rate (usually 
referred to as LIBOR) will cease in its current form at the end of 2021. 
To avoid disruption when this happens, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the financial 
markets regulator in the UK, requires LIBOR to continue to be published after the end of 
2021 on a synthetic" basis. 
In light of this, we expect that we will continue to calculate interest on your mortgage by 
reference to LIBOR beyond the end of 2021.
How will LIBOR change?
LIBOR currently measures the interest rate that major banks charge each other to borrow 
money. After the end of 2021, LIBOR will be calculated by the FCA using an interest rate called 
Term SONIA plus a small fixed adjustment to account for the difference in the way that 
LIBOR and Term SONIA work. 
The FCA believes that this approach is the fairest and most robust way to provide a 
reference interest rate that best reflects how LIBOR used to be calculated.
What else do I need to know?
There are no other changes to your mortgage. Your interest rate will continue to be 
calculated based on LIBOR plus your fixed product margin and we will write to you every 
quarter, as we do now, with your revised monthly payment. 
The FCAs requirement for LIBOR to continue to be published on a synthetic basis is only 
temporary and, at some point in the future, the FCA is likely to discontinue LIBOR 
altogether. We will continue to review the information provided by the FCA and other 
industry groups and we will write to you well in advance of any requirement to make any 
changes to your mortgage. 
For more information, please see the Frequently Asked Questions at the end of this letter. 
You can also find out more about the cessation of LIBOR on the FCA website -
https://www.fca.org.uk/consumers/mortgage-interest-rates-libor 
If you would like to discuss this further, please call our Customer Contact Centre on 0345 
389 1672*. Lines are open Monday to Friday 8:30am-5:30pm (excluding bank holidays). 
If you require any extra help to understand the detail in this letter, then please tell us as 
soon as possible. We have dedicated agents who can support customers who may have 
difficulty communicating with us about their account or who may need extra support for any 
reason.
The frequently asked questions document said:
What is Synthetic LIBOR?
The FCA recognises that it may not be possible to transition all mortgage contracts that 
rely on LIBOR to a replacement rate by the end of the year. So, for a limited period from 
the end of 2021 the FCA is proposing to exercise its powers to require the continued 
publication of LIBOR but calculated in a different way - this is referred to by the FCA and in 
the press as Synthetic LIBOR".
How will LIBOR be calculated after the end of 2021?
LIBOR will be calculated using an interest rate called 3-month Term SONIA (Term SONIA) 
plus a credit adjustment spread (fixed at 0.1193%) to account for the difference in the way 
that LIBOR and Term SON IA work.
For example, if when LIBOR is calculated Term SONIA was 0.0515%, LIBOR would be:
0.0515% + 0.1193% = 0.1708% (Term SONIA plus 0.1193%)
LIBOR is a variable interest rate to may increase or decrease based on changes to Term 
SONIA.
What is Term SONIA?SONIA stands for Sterling Overnight Index Average reference rate. Term SONIA is a 
forward-looking rate, similar to LIBOR. It reflects the expected average SONIA rate over a 
given period (e.g., 3 months) and is fixed at the beginning of that period. The FCA will use 
3-month Term SONIA to calculate LIBOR.
Why is the FCA adding an adjustment to Term SONIA to calculate LIBOR?
Because of the difference in the way that LIBOR and Term SONIA work, to ensure the fair 
conversion of existing contracts, a small adjustment is needed to account for this 
difference.
Can I choose a different reference rate for my account?
No. If you wish to have a mortgage linked to a different reference rate, you would need to 
choose one offered by another lender and re-mortgage to them.
Can I pay my mortgage early rather than have my interest rate set using LIBOR?
If you are unhappy with the change you have the right to repay your mortgage in full at any 
time. If you would like to close your mortgage account, please contact us to obtain a 
redemption figure.
On 22 February 2022 Melanite wrote to Mr and Mrs B to explain that the interest rate on their 
mortgage for the next quarter (from 1 March) would be 4.17%, which gave a CMP of around 
£870.
Mrs B called Melanite on 3 March about the rate increase. She said theyd struggle to 
maintain that with the other cost of living increases. Melanite discussed the possibility of a 
further concession on the account and recommended Mr and Mrs B seek independent 
financial advice. 
A complaint was raised in the above call which Melanite responded to on 6 April. It 
summarised the complaint as My understanding of your complaint is that you are unhappy 
your interest rate has increased and therefore your Contractual Monthly Payment (CMP) has 
increased from 1 April 2022. You feel Melanite are not doing anything to help you. Melanite 
explained the rate tracked LIBOR (now SONIA) and wasnt under Melanites control. It said it 
doesnt offer new products and wanted to support Mr and Mrs B. It explained it doesnt offer 
payment holidays but it could consider a further concession on the account and it was happy 
to discuss that further.
On 12 May Mrs B called Melanite. She said her credit file showed missed payments for the 
2021 arrangement period, and it was preventing her from remortgaging. Mrs B was told that 
Melanite was obliged to report factual information to the credit reference agencies, and it 
was reported correctly.
On 25 May Melanite wrote to Mr and Mrs B to explain that the interest rate on their mortgage 
for the next quarter (from 1 June) would be 4.68%, which gave a CMP of around £980. And 
then on 25 August Melanite wrote to Mr and Mrs B again to explain that the interest rate on 
their mortgage for the next quarter (from 1 September) would be 5.65%, which gave a CMP 
of around £1,180.
Mrs B called Melanite on 2 September in response to the rate increase letter. She said shed 
already sought independent advice and was unable to remortgage due to the adverse 
information that had been reported to the credit reference agencies in 2021. The call handler told Mrs B that they would contact the team that deals with credit file reporting to ensure the 
information that had been reported was accurate.
On 12 September Mrs B called Melanite to see if any amendments were to be made 
following the previous call. Mrs B was told it would be chased up and someone would call 
her back.
Melanites contact notes indicate someone tried to call Mrs B in the evening of 14 September 
but there was no answer.
On 16 September Mrs B called Melanite and was told what the credit file reporting team had 
found. She was told that a concession wasnt in place in June 2021 (with the concession 
running from January to May), and as the total arrears (from the reduced payment 
arrangement) were the equivalent of four monthly payments in June that was reported to the 
credit reference agencies. The call handler said they were trying to see if the credit file 
information could be amended for June 2021 to show that there was an arrangement in that 
month too. There was a discussion about why June showed as a missed payment when 
Mr and Mrs B made their full CMP that month, and also about the rate increases and the fact 
Mr and Mrs B were unable to remortgage.
Mrs B made further calls on 22 September and 20 October. In the October call Mrs B said 
the concession had been reported as five missed payments and shed been trying to resolve 
this for months. She said her credit file was showing as in arrears from January to May 2021, 
and shed been given conflicting information over the past few months. The call handler 
apologised for any conflicting information and said they could get the credit file amended, 
with the arrears removed. Mrs B said that even if that was done now, shed be unable to 
remortgage as rates had gone up by so much. The call handler offered to raise it as a 
complaint, but Mrs B said shed rather just go straight to the directors.
On 25 October Mrs B wrote to the directors (albeit Melanite has said it has no record of 
receiving this). She said, in summary:
At the start of Mr Bs illness they agreed a reduced payment plan of £80 a month. Mr B 
returned to work a month earlier than he was advised to by the doctors because he was 
worried about the arrears accruing on the mortgage. One month after he returned to 
work they cleared the arrears in full.
In 2022 their CMP increased from around £710 to around £1,180 in seven months. 
Shed phoned Melanite to ask for help and for an explanation of why the payments were 
increasing by so much each month, but she was told to remortgage to a new lender and 
wasnt given an explanation.
Shed tried remortgaging with two different brokers and both had told her it wouldnt be 
possible, the main reason being that their credit files showed that the five months where 
they were on an agreed reduced payment plan were recorded as five missed payments. 
Theyd been struggling to pay their mortgage for months, and with a further rate 
increase due they were worried they were going to lose their home. She explained why 
they felt selling their house wasnt an option, and asked why they should move away 
when theyd done nothing wrong.
Mrs B said shed been trying to sort out the credit file issue for months so they could 
remortgage, but every time she called she had been told something different.Mrs B said that the help they needed was for:
their credit files to be immediately corrected,
a new mortgage to be granted with an affordable interest rate, and
financial compensation for the pain and stress Melanite mortgages had caused them.
Mrs B called Melanite again on 3 November and raised a complaint about what had been 
reported on their credit files, and that it was stopping them remortgaging. She said shed 
raised a complaint but nothing was being done, and she never hears anything back. A 
complaint was logged on that call and was passed to Melanites complaints team to 
investigate.
Melanite sent a letter to Mrs B on 7 November acknowledging the complaint and enclosing a 
summary document explaining the complaints process and the timescales involved.
On 14 November Mrs B contacted Topazs Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) via social 
media. She:
summarised what had happened with Mr Bs illness and the reduced payments, and 
said that theyd cleared the arrears in July 2021,
said since March 2022 interest rates have been rising and so theyd tried to remortgage 
to a new lender, but had been told by two mortgage brokers that it wasnt possible 
because Melanite had registered their payment plan as being five missed payments,
said theyd been going round in circles trying to get it resolved, and shed written to the 
directors a few weeks ago without response,
said their credit files needed to be amended immediately, and financial compensation 
paid for the increased payments and the stress, pain and suffering Melanite had caused.
The CCO replied to Mrs B the same day to acknowledge receipt of her message, and said 
hed circulated her concerns and Melanite would be in touch with her shortly.
Meanwhile, on 24 November Melanite wrote to Mr and Mrs B to explain that the interest rate 
on their mortgage for the next quarter (from 1 December) would be 6.89%, which gave a 
CMP of around £1,440.
Melanite responded to the complaint on 28 November, saying:
It was unable to offer new mortgage products, but it would work with Mr and Mrs B to 
help them maintain the mortgage.
It had reported the mortgage as in an arrangement to pay between January and May 
2021, with the level of arrears in those months not disclosed on Mr and Mrs Bs credit 
files. 
There was no arrangement in place for June 2021, so the level of arrears was reported 
for that month. As the total arrears (of around £3,100) was equal to four missed 
payments, then the mortgage was reported as being four months in arrears in June.
The impact of the arrangement on Mr and Mrs Bs credit file was explained to Mrs B on 
the phone, with follow up letters sent.
Whilst the correct information had been reported, the concession should have been 
extended to also cover June 2021 following the call in that month. Melanite said it would 
amend the information it reported to show the arrangement as also covering June.
It apologised for the fact Mr and Mrs B had been given conflicting information when 
querying the credit file issue, and offered them £750 compensation for the distress, 
inconvenience and upset caused.Several letters had been sent to Mr and Mrs B to explain the increases in payments, and 
a previous complaint response was sent on 6 April 2022.
The rate of interest had been applied correctly.
Mrs B sent a further email to the CCO on 3 January 2023. She said:
She wasnt happy with the complaint response.
The letter advising that LIBOR was being discontinued didnt provide them with any 
information or examples as to the implications to their monthly payments if interest 
rates were to rise. Previous rate rises when it was LIBOR were £20 to £50, but since 
the mortgage has been tracking SONIA the rate increases were around £160 to £730. 
And because they werent clearly advised of the implications of the switch from LIBOR 
to SONIA theyd been left unprotected against rising interest rates. Mrs B said it was 
an utter disgrace that Melanite had done this to them, and if theyd been given 
transparent information about the switch from LIBOR to SONIA in November 2021, 
they would have remortgaged then.
After the rate increase in March 2022 theyd contacted two mortgage brokers and were 
told they couldnt remortgage because of how the reduced payment arrangement had 
been recorded with the credit reference agencies. She said the brokers had told them 
the debt management plan wasnt the issue, it was definitely the mortgage, and shed 
spent months trying to resolve the issue with Melanite.
The compensation offered was an insult, and amending their credit files now is too little 
too late as interest rates were now too high for them to be able to remortgage. Mrs B 
said their credit files should have been amended in November 2021, or at the least in 
March 2022.
Melanite should:
oReimburse the £3,400 extra that their mortgage has cost them since March 
2022.
oPay the £750 compensation that has been offered.
oCover (for the next ten years) any monthly amount over and above what the 
monthly repayment would have been on a reasonable ten-year fixed rate 
mortgage that was available in November 2021.
Mrs B sent a further email on 12 January to the CEO this time.
Melanite replied on 18 January. It said:
The increase in Mr and Mrs Bs payments wasnt due to the change from LIBOR to 
SONIA, but because the market generally had changed significantly in that period. 
Whilst there had been a period of stability from March 2009 to May 2022, since then 
global movements in interest rates meant rates returning to a level close to where 
they were prior to 2008.
Whilst it had amended Mr and Mrs Bs credit file information to show they were in an 
arrangement to pay in June 2021 that would still have a detrimental impact on their 
credit file which would likely have impacted on their ability to remortgage. That, 
combined with Mr and Mrs Bs debt management plan, would contribute to a lower 
credit score and may result in lending being declined.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was already on an interest only basis and Melanite didnt 
offer new mortgage products. It said it could look at options such as a longer-term 
concessionary arrangement, and that a call could be arranged for that to be 
discussed.
It said its letter of 28 November 2022 was its final position on the complaint, and the 
offer of £750 was still available.In the meantime, Mr and Mrs B had referred their complaint to our service on 20 October 
2022.
Our Investigator said we couldnt consider anything covered in the 6 April 2022 final 
response letter because that complaint hadnt been referred to us within six months of the 
date of the letter. In respect of the remainder of the complaint our Investigator felt the offer of 
£750 was fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and following some further correspondence with our Investigator, 
the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs B are in. Its clear theyve gone 
through  and are still going through - some very difficult times, and it cant have been easy 
to mentally revisit those times when bringing this complaint. Ive not gone into any detail 
about that in this decision to protect Mr and Mrs Bs privacy once the decision is published. 
But Id seek to reassure them that Ive read and taken into account everything theyve said.
The information Melanite reported to the credit reference agencies about the status of 
the mortgage account between January and June 2021
It isnt in dispute that the mortgage should have been reported to the credit reference 
agencies as in an arrangement from January to May 2021 (inclusive). Ive seen a record of 
what Melanite reported for those months and I can confirm that it was reported correctly.
Whilst Mr and Mrs B said it had been reported as five missed payments that isnt correct, it 
was five months of being in a payment arrangement.
The fact a payment arrangement would impact Mr and Mrs Bs credit files was discussed in 
the relevant phone calls, and detailed in the letters sent in January and March 2021, with 
those saying:
As you will not be making full monthly payments, arrears will accrue on your account while 
the agreement is in place. If your account is already in arrears, your arrears balance will 
increase. At the end of this arrangement, we will review your financial circumstances again 
to agree the next steps to help you through your payment difficulties, with the ultimate aim 
of clearing your arrears and bringing your mortgage up to date.
And:
What else do I need to consider?
It is important to let you know that, as your account falls into arrears, interest will be added 
to the unpaid amount at the interest rate applicable to your loan. This will increase your 
balance and the amount of interest you will be required to pay overall.
Additionally, when your account is in arrears, we are required to inform Credit Reference agencies. This will have a negative impact on your credit file and may make it difficult for 
you to borrow money in the future. If you can afford to do so, paying more than the 
minimum agreed during the concessionary period is a good idea as it will help to reduce 
any negative impact on your credit file.
It was never intended that June 2021 was to be reported as being in an arrangement. The 
first arrangement covered January and February, and the second covered March, April and 
May. However, when Mrs B phoned at the start of June she said that whilst they could make 
the full CMP that month, they werent able to pay anything towards the arrears. In the 
circumstances it was correct that in June 2021 the account was reported as being in arrears 
as the account was no longer in an active arrangement.
The reason why the number 4 was reported is due to how credit files are shown. Rather 
than the report being what happened in that individual month, it is reported what the overall 
status of the account is at that time. To give a general example (not related to Mr and Mrs 
Bs mortgage):
In January no payment is made, so the credit file reports as 1 for that month.
In February the full payment is made, but the credit file still reports as 1 for that 
month as the mortgage is still one month behind. Had no payment been made in 
February then it would have been reported as 2 as the account would have been 
two months behind.
To put that in the context of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. If the mortgage hadnt been in an 
arrangement from January to May, then the following would have been reported to the credit 
reference agencies (all monetary amounts are approximate):
0 in January 2021. Thats because the CMP was £700, but the arrears were only 
£620. As the account was less than one month in arrears, it would be reported as up 
to date with the credit reference agencies.
1 in February 2021. Thats because the CMP was £700, and the arrears were 
£1,240. As the account was more than one month but less than two months in 
arrears, it would be reported as one month in arrears with the credit reference 
agencies.
2 in March 2021. Thats because the CMP was £700, and the arrears were £1,860. 
As the account was more than two months but less than three months in arrears, it 
would be reported as two months in arrears with the credit reference agencies.
3 in April 2021. Thats because the CMP was £700, and the arrears were £2,480. As 
the account was more than three months but less than four months in arrears, it 
would be reported as three months in arrears with the credit reference agencies.
4 in May 2021. Thats because the CMP was £700, and the arrears were £3,100. As 
the account was more than four months but less than five months in arrears, it would 
be reported as four months in arrears with the credit reference agencies.
4 in June 2021. Thats because the CMP was £700, and the arrears remained at 
£3,100. As the account was more than four months but less than five months in 
arrears, it would be reported as four months in arrears with the credit reference 
agencies.
Due to the arrangement on the account Melanite just reported the arrangement from January 
to May, suppressing the numbers indicating the level of arrears. But as there was no 
arrangement for June 2021 the number was reported, which was 4 for the reason Ive 
explained above.
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs B were given conflicting information after they raised this 
issue in March 2022. The correct information should have been that the information had been correctly reported as an arrangement from January to May, and then four months 
arrears in June. That was the true representation of the account.
When this complaint was considered in November 2022 Melanite took a more holistic 
overview and decided to consider whether it could have reported the account as in an 
arrangement in June 2021 and it decided, after taking into account the conflicting information 
Mr and Mrs B had been given since March 2022, that it could do so. That was a fair decision 
for it to have made, and not something it was obliged to do.
Mr and Mrs B have said that the information that was reported to their credit files stopped 
them remortgaging to a different lender. Whilst I absolutely dont doubt anything 
Mr and Mrs B have said about what the brokers told them, without an application being 
attempted it is impossible for us to say that the reporting of 4 in June 2021 rather than an 
arrangement would have been the sole block to Mr and Mrs B remortgaging. 
I say this because Mr and Mrs B would have needed to find a lender willing to lend to 
someone that had recently had a six-month arrangement to pay on their mortgage and that 
was in (or had recently been in) a debt management plan. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage is held 
on an interest-only basis, so that lender would have needed to have been willing to lend on 
that same basis, and Mr and Mrs Bs repayment vehicle would have needed to have met its 
underwriting criteria. I understand that due to Mr Bs age a switch to repayment was unlikely 
to have been considered affordable over the maximum term most lenders would have been 
willing to consider. Thats before any other considerations were taken into account, such as 
a standard affordability check and the more general credit scoring.
As Ive said, Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs B have found 
themselves in, but I simply cant say it is more likely than not that they would have been able 
to obtain an alternative mortgage at an affordable rate of interest in March 2022 even if their 
credit files had shown the mortgage as in an arrangement in June 2021 instead of reporting 
as four months in arrears. For that reason, I cant make any award in respect of the higher 
mortgage payments Mr and Mrs B have made, or will be making in the future.
Melanite offered £750 compensation for the way the concession and Mr and Mrs Bs later 
queries had been handled. As Ive said, I dont think the credit file issue would have been the 
only barrier to Mr and Mrs B obtaining an affordable interest rate elsewhere so all Im 
thinking about is the distress and inconvenience that was caused to them. I cant consider 
the impact of the higher payments, as I think those would always have been due. Having 
considered everything very carefully, and thinking about other awards made by this service, I 
consider £750 to be fair in all the circumstances.
The increase in Mr and Mrs Bs monthly payments
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage is on a tracker product. When it was taken out it tracked the three 
months sterling LIBOR, and since that reference rate was withdrawn it has tracked SONIA.
The FCA issued guidance about what a fair replacement rate for LIBOR would be, and Im 
satisfied that the replacement rate offered by Melanite is in line with that guidance. The 
regulators guidance is one of the things I must take into account in deciding what in my 
opinion is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the complaint. The changes 
are also in line with what other lenders have done. In view of those things, I am satisfied that 
Melanite acted fairly and reasonably in changing the reference rate on Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage.
I note the point that Mr and Mrs B have made that when LIBOR was the reference rate their 
payments were broadly stable for over ten years, with variances of up to around £50. But that reflects that interest rates generally remained historically low and stable for large parts 
of that time. 
Since the start of 2022 interest rates globally have increased significantly, this isnt just 
limited to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage, Melanite or even just the UK mortgage market. It does 
not follow that if LIBOR had remained as the reference rate that Mr and Mrs Bs payments 
would not also have gone up by around the same amount. Ive not seen any evidence that 
the change to the reference rate has unfairly benefitted Melanite, or that the change from 
LIBOR to SONIA was the reason for the increases.
Whilst Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage isnt linked to the Bank of England base rate it is a widely 
recognised indicator of market conditions. At the time Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage 
the base rate was at 0.50%. Between then and the end of 2021 it only varied six times with 
base rate being 0.10% at its lowest point and 0.75% at its highest. In 2022 alone base rate 
varied eight times, increasing from 0.25% to 3.50%.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Melanite has varied Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage in 
line with their contract, and the increase in payments, whilst very unwelcome and worrying 
for Mr and Mrs B, are correct.
The level of support Melanite has offered to Mr and Mrs B
Melanite is a closed book lender. This means it doesnt offer new interest rate products to 
either existing customers or new customers  and theres nothing in the rules of mortgage 
regulation requiring it to do so. Lenders are entitled to decide for themselves whether to offer 
new interest rate products. Melanite has treated all of its customers in the same way, so I 
dont think it has treated Mr and Mrs B any less favourably than any other of its mortgage 
holders.
We cant compel a lender to offer new interest rates and all wed expect a lender to do in 
these circumstances is direct its customers to seek independent mortgage advice so they 
can explore whether its possible to switch their mortgage to a different lender with more 
preferential interest rates. Melanite has done that, and I consider that is enough.
Another thing a lender can consider when a customer is struggling is whether a term 
extension or a temporary switch to interest only could help them. But here Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage is already held on an interest only basis, and a term extension doesnt alter the 
monthly payments on an interest only mortgage.
From this we can see there are no amendments that can be made to the mortgage which 
would reduce the monthly payments. So that just leaves concessionary arrangements, which 
Melanite has already offered to discuss.
I understand Mr and Mrs B dont want any further impact on their credit file, but unfortunately 
there are no options available to them with Melanite that wont impact that.
Melanite does not offer new interest rates to any of its customers, and it isnt obliged to do 
so. It also cant do anything else to reduce Mr and Mrs Bs monthly payments because 
theyre already only paying the interest due, rather than making capital repayments, so there 
are no ways to reduce their monthly payments without them entering into a reduced payment 
arrangement (which will be reported to the credit reference agencies).
If Mr and Mrs B are struggling to maintain their mortgage payments then they should speak 
to Melanite to discuss their options, either directly or with the help of someone trained to give 
them debt advice - such as StepChange or Citizens Advice. Id encourage Mr and Mrs B to contact Melanite (either directly, or via an agency as Ive explained above) and have an 
open and honest conversation about their circumstances and worries for both now and the 
future. Theyll need to work together and that means Mr and Mrs B will need to be frank 
about their situation. And Melanite will need to listen to what they have to say and, fairly and 
sympathetically, see if theres a way to work with them to agree a way forward.
I understand this decision will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B and I give them my best 
wishes for both now and the future. But in terms of the complaint that was brought to us, Im 
satisfied Melanite has already done enough to resolve it.
My final decision
Topaz Finance Limited trading as Melanite Mortgages has already made an offer to make an 
amendment to its credit file reporting for June 2021 and pay £750 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Melanite Mortgages should amend 
its credit file reporting for June 2021 to show the account as in an arrangement to pay, and 
pay £750 to Mr and Mrs B (if its not already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman