DRN-2814317
The complaint
The estate of Mr P is unhappy with how Barclays dealt with the closure of the late Mr Ps 
business accounts.
What happened
The late Mr P was the sole direction of a limited company which held business bank 
accounts with Barclays. Sadly, in March 2019, Mr P passed away. Following this, it was 
explained to the estate of Mr P by Barclays that in order to release the monies held in the 
limited company business accounts to the estate, a new director would need to be appointed 
to the limited company in order to provide Barclays with a legitimate instruction from the 
limited company.
The estate of Mr P werent able to appoint a new director to the limited company. And, in 
February 2020, the limited company was struck off by Companies House while the monies 
were still in the business bank accounts. This resulted in Barclays closing the limited 
company accounts and sending the monies to the Treasury Solicitor.
The estate of Mr P werent happy about this, or with the standard of communication that 
theyd received from Barclays during the ongoing matter. So, they raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at this complaint, but they felt that theyd be clear and consistent about what 
they required from the estate of Mr P in order to release the monies, so they didnt uphold 
the complaint.
The estate of Mr P wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so they referred their complaint 
to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that 
Barclays had been clear that a new director needed to be appointed to the limited company 
to authorise the release of the monies, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
The estate of Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been raised by the estate of Mr P. But Im aware that the estate of Mr P 
is represented by close personal relatives of the late Mr P, and so Id like to offer my 
condolences and sympathies to the late Mr Ps relatives during what I understand must be a 
difficult time.
The circumstances of this complaint present a number of restrictions which I feel that its 
important to highlight. For instance, in complaints brought by an estate, its usually the case 
that this this service is only able to consider instructing a business to compensate the estate 
for instances of material loss to the value of the estate. In contact, it isnt usually possible for 
this service to consider instructing a business to compensate an estate, or the individuals 
representing an estate, for any distress or inconvenience that those individuals may have 
incurred. 
Its also notable in this instance that the monies which were held by Barclays werent held in 
personal accounts of the late Mr P, but in the business accounts of the limited company of 
which the late Mr P was the sole director. This is an important distinction, because it means 
that the monies held werent the personal property of the late Mr P, but rather were assets of 
the limited company.
Because of this, it seems reasonable to me that Barclays would need authorisation from a 
director of that limited company in order to release the monies held in the business accounts 
to the estate of Mr P. And indeed, it may well have been improper for Barclays to have 
released these monies without such instruction.
What this service would expect in circumstances such as this would be that Barclays would 
be clear in their communication to the estate of Mr P with regard what was required in order 
for Barclays to be able to release the monies, in the manner that the estate of Mr P was 
wanting.
And, having reviewed the evidence available to me, including listening to recorded telephone 
calls between Barclays and the estate of Mr P, I think that Barclays have done that here.
I say this because Barclays appear to have been clear and consistent when corresponding 
with the estate of Mr P that they would require a new director to be appointed to the limited 
company in order for that director to then provide Barclays with a legitimate instruction to 
transfer the monies held in the business accounts to the estate of Mr P.
Its understandable that the estate of Mr P may not have been in a position to have 
appointed a director to the limited company to issue the instruction as Barclays were 
requesting, but it must be acknowledged that the estate of Mr Ps inability to appoint a new 
director doesnt lessen the requirement for a new director to be appointed in order to then 
issue a legitimate instruction to Barclays to transfer the monies to the estate of Mr P.
Im aware that the estate of Mr P also expressed concerns about certain aspects of Barclays 
communication with the estate, including Barclays records of correspondence addresses 
and telephone numbers. But having reviewed these aspects of the complaint Im not 
convinced that Barclays have acted improperly in any way, and I note, for instance, that 
Barclays wouldnt have been able to update the correspondence address on the limited 
company business accounts without instruction from the business itself - which is in-line with 
the wider point of this complaint, as discussed above.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, 
and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that the estate of Mr P 
were wanting, but I hope that they can understand, given everything I have explained above, 
why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman