DRN-3520970
The complaint
Mr H complains that Standard Life Client Management Limited trading as 1825 failed to
execute his request to sell down the underlying assets held in one of his Standard Life
pensions. Mr H says, because of delays by 1825, he missed the opportunity to sell down and
as a result incurred significant investment losses.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 10 May 2022. I set out what had happened leading up to 
Mr Hs complaint, our investigation and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said 
here: 
Mr H is retired. He has two pension plans with Standard Life: a self invested personal
pension (SIPP) and a stakeholder pension plan (SHP). As at October 2019 his SIPP fund
was £927,134.19 and his SHP fund was £162,000. Mr H used 1825 to help him manage his
finances and pension planning. A fact find completed in October 2019 for Mr Hs annual
review records that he had a medium to high attitude to risk (ATR) and ordinarily drew
£45,000 pa from his SIPP as income.
In February 2020 Mr H became concerned about the development of the pandemic and its
impact on the financial markets. He emailed his 1825 adviser on 11 February 2020 saying, I
would like to move all my funds to the lowest risk category ASAP. Can you please let me
know how to do this and how long it will take. Mr H didnt get a response and emailed again
on 19 February 2020. He forwarded his earlier message and asked for confirmation that it
had been received as he hadnt had any reply. He also said he wanted to drawdown, in total,
£19,000 as soon as possible. He asked the adviser to arrange that, saying that he didnt
think it needed to be discussed. He added, Also I would like to discuss moving my funds to
a lower risk category.
Mr H received an out of office message saying the adviser wasnt available. Mr H emailed
1825s support team asking them to deal with his previous request. Mr H didnt hear back
and contacted his adviser again on 26 February 2020 asking if his drawdown request had
been actioned and confirming hed like to talk about risk categories. Mr H said he hadnt
been contacted and the markets had dropped significantly.
Mr H and the adviser spoke on 28 February 2020. The conversation centred on the
drawdown request. According to 1825, the request to move funds into a lower risk category
was briefly touched on and it was confirmed Mr Hs natural territory was medium risk for
the long term. The drawdown request was actioned. A suitability report was sent on 28
February 2020.
Mr Hs position was that when he emailed on 11 February 2020 thered have been enough
time to have a discussion and move the funds prior to the market drop. He said hed have
come out of the market and contacted the adviser to discuss when would be a good time to
buy back in. Mr H also said later that hed missed the boat. I think that was in terms of why
he didnt go ahead with a switch to cash when he spoke to the adviser on 28 February 2020.
Mr H told 1825 on 12 March 2020, had he been disinvested at that date, hed have asked
1825 to move 50% of his funds back into the original investment. And, on 1 April 2020, he
confirmed hed have asked 1825 to reinvest the remaining funds.
1825 issued its final response on 14 July 2020. It accepted thered been no out of office
notification and a buddy system should also have been in place. Mr H shouldve been
contacted within 24 hours of his first email to discuss if thered been any changes to his
circumstances or long term goals. As no fund had been specified that would have required
clarification. 1825s advice wouldve been, as thered been no material changes since the
annual review, to remain invested in medium risk funds. If Mr H had still wanted to switch
into a specified fund(s), 1825 wouldve been required to follow its insistent client procedure.
Timescales in that scenario couldnt be confirmed but, had that happened, the trades
wouldve settled within a 13 business day period. Mr Hs withdrawal request made the
following week may have been impacted.
If Mr H had provided a clear instruction from the outset with a fund specified and a
discussion had taken place it may have been possible to have placed the trade on an
execution only basis.
A call shouldve taken place on 21 February 2020 about Mr Hs withdrawal instruction. 1825
set out what units wouldve been sold and when and at what prices. 1825 calculated Mr H
had suffered a financial loss for the delay and offered compensation of £175.22 plus £350
for the service failings and a further £100 because the complaint investigation had taken
longer than expected.
The complaint was referred to us. 1825 made some further comments. In summary:
The adviser called Mr H on [28] February 2020. During the conversation there was 
no
instruction from Mr H to proceed with switching funds. Had there been, the adviser
wouldve had to follow 1825s insistent client process. Mr Hs goals, objectives and
his ATR hadnt changed since the annual review in October 2019. 1825s advice
wouldve been to remain invested for the long term.
If a client insists 1825 must document its recommendation not to proceed, detailing
its reasons plus the risks. The client needs to advise they dont accept the advice and
insist the switch is made against the advice given. 1825 would then instruct the
trades on the wrap platform following its best execution guidelines (three business
days following the clients agreement to proceed). 1825 have no control over
timescales once a trade has been instructed.
Mr H required a SIPP withdrawal urgently. That was discussed in the call. 1825s
immediate needs process was followed. It didnt incorporate 100% switches or
movement between risk profiles.
Mr H hadnt requested a fund switch previously and wasnt noted on 1825s systems
as a self select client  one who trades regularly on a non-advised execution only
basis. A concession from 1825s Regional Advice Manager is always required. The
criteria for becoming a self select client is strict and must be agreed in advance of
any requests being received. The process and timelines for implementing are
discussed with the client before a concession is requested. All self select clients must
provide a clear instruction detailing the fund code and name for a transaction to be
implemented. All concessions are reviewed on an individual basis and on the clients
circumstances and in most cases are declined.
Theres no average timescale for the insistent client process as each case is on an
individual basis and subject to pre clearance quality process. The adviser will explain
what is required and that this can take time to implement.
The offer of redress was for the delay in implementing the SIPP withdrawal.One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary he said:
Mr Hs request wouldve been discussed further with him to establish what cash
funds were available and exactly what Mr H required. 1825 would then have
considered the request and provided advice.
The investigators view was that 1825 wouldve advised Mr H to remain invested. If
Mr H had still wanted to sell down, he couldve been treated as a self select insistent
client. 1825s internal guidance about that involved various steps.
The investigator wasnt sure that Mr H wouldve acted on what the investigator
termed a well reasoned hunch that the markets would drop considerably. And the
process wouldve taken some time and may not have been completed before the
markets fell.
Mr H had apparently been happy with the advice 1825 had provided and the
investigator questioned if Mr H wouldve decided to go against advice to remain
invested.
The offer to pay £450 for the service failings was fair and reasonable.
In response Mr H said the investigators view was based on two points: First, that Mr Hs
request was inconsistent with what the adviser wouldve advised  that Mr H remain
invested; secondly, that 1825s internal processes and procedures meant it wouldve been
too difficult to execute Mr Hs request. Mr H provided detailed comments in respect of both
issues. He also made some further points about, amongst other things, his financial adviser
not always being correct, health issues which impacted on his life expectancy and the stress
the matter had caused him which has affected his health.
The investigator considered Mr Hs comments. But he wasnt persuaded to change his
views. He maintained that 1825s advice wouldve been to remain invested and that was
evidenced by the internal guidance. The investigator referred to the long term nature of a
pension, the annual review undertaken in October 2019, the assessment of Mr Hs ATR as
medium and the changes made to his portfolio to reflect that. Mr Hs request was a change
to his agreed strategy and 1825 wouldve had to consider that and provide advice. The
investigator also said that 1825 had provided evidence of the processes that wouldve been
undertaken, had Mr H met with his adviser. The investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr H
wouldve gone ahead with the request. A further fact find and ATR assessment wouldve
been required. If Mr H had rejected 1825s advice, hed have needed to be treated as an
insistent client.
Mr H made some further observations. In particular he said section 1.15.3 of the internal
guidance said the clients instructions will be accepted. That was clear and there was no
suggestion hed have to be treated as an insistent client. There was a caveat about needing
to have a clear awareness of the implications but hed demonstrated he was fully aware. He
didnt need and hadnt asked for 1825s advice. His request wasnt a long term strategy 
hed have asked for the funds to be reinvested shortly afterwards. He asked if there was any
other evidence that he hadnt seen. If so he asked for a copy and an explanation as to why it
hadnt been provided earlier.
The investigator agreed that section 1.15.3 did say that a clients instructions will be
accepted. But he maintained it was possible to disinvest but not that easily and there hadnt
been enough time between 11 February 2020 and 28 February 2020 (when Mr H had said it
was by then too late). The investigator said hed ask 1825 if further information from its
internal guidance could be released. But he later told Mr H that 1825 hadnt consented.
Mr H remained disappointed. He felt the investigator had accepted all 1825 had said, eventhough it was based on what Mr H felt was flimsy evidence. He also considered the
language used by the investigator (well reasoned hunch and attempt to beat the market)
was emotive and suggested bias. Mr H also what hed said about having missed the boat
had been misinterpreted. Hed meant it wouldve been too late to start the process on 28
February 2020. That wasnt the same as being too late to complete it. The FTSE had already
fallen by 10% by 28 February 2020 but his fund value had only fallen by 3.5%. Theres a
very high chance hed have gone ahead with his request even at that later date and hed be
some £160,000 better off. If 1825 had followed its own internal guidance the switch could
easily have been completed before any significant crash.
Mr H had looked at the regulators definition of an insistent client, set out in COBS (Conduct
of Business Sourcebook) 9.5A.2G. If 1825 was suggesting hed have been treated as such,
a personal recommendation was required. He queried how 1825 could be sure what that
recommendation would have been and if there was any suggestion that 1825 had broken the
FCAs rules.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me. I noted Mr Hs
dissatisfaction that he hadnt seen all the evidence that had been relied on. 1825 has now
agreed that the relevant sections of its internal guidance can be shared with Mr H. Thats
sections 1.15 (Market Timing/Disinvesting to Cash) and 11 (Insistent Client Policy). Copies
will be provided to Mr H.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered everything even if I havent referred to each and every comment
thats been made or document supplied. Ive paid particular attention to what Mr H has said
about why he didnt accept the investigators view. Well also be sharing with him the
relevant sections of 1825s internal guidance. I dont see theres any need to disclose it in full
and when Ive only relied on the sections which will now be disclosed to Mr H.
Having considered everything, I dont disagree with the views expressed by the investigator
and with the reasons he gave as to why he considered 1825s offer was fair and reasonable
in the circumstances of this case and that it didnt need to do anything further. I realise Mr H
is likely to remain dissatisfied and I understand his strength of feeling. Ive also borne in mind
all hes said about his investment experience and his professional skills. And I note hes not
in a position to take the matter to court. I agree that taking legal proceedings would be
stressful, uncertain and expensive. Were an alternative to the courts. But its the nature of
our work that one party is likely to be disappointed with the outcome.
Theres no issue that there were service failings on 1825s part. 1825 has accepted that, in
the advisers absence, Mr Hs email of 11 February 2020 went unnoticed. The advisers out
of office notification wasnt on and his inbox wasnt being checked by a colleague. So Mr H
didnt know that his email hadnt been seen and actioned. It was only when he sent a further
email on 19 February 2020 that he got an out of office notification and which directed him to
contact the support team which he did by forwarding his email.
Where, as here, something has gone wrong, we look at what wouldve happened but for the
error or failing. Often, where theres a dispute about what wouldve happened if things had
been done differently, it wont be possible to say with certainty what the outcome wouldve
been. In that sort of situation we reach our conclusions on the balance of probabilities, that is
what we think is likely to have been the case. In reaching our conclusions well take into
account all the evidence, including what the parties say about what their respective positionswere and wouldve been, as well as the wider circumstances.
And, as Mr H accepts, its important not to judge things with the benefit of hindsight. It may
now be the case that, if Mr Hs SIPP fund had been switched to cash shortly after his email
of 11 February 2020 and then reinvested on the dates hes said, his fund value would be
higher. But that doesnt mean his complaint should automatically be upheld. Ive looked
closely at Mr Hs email of 11 February 2020 and what would have happened if 1825 had
dealt with it correctly.
The email wasnt a clear fund swich instruction on which 1825 couldve acted immediately.
Although he said hed like to move his funds into the lowest risk category as soon as
possible, Mr H didnt name the fund(s) or give the fund code(s). So further information was
needed before 1825 could act on Mr Hs email.
Thats in accordance with Mr Hs contract with 1825, as set out in the terms of business,
client acceptance and the services and charges guide. The terms of business say 1825 may
refuse to act on Mr Hs instructions where 1825 cannot verify these or where they are
unclear or ambiguous in which case 1825 will contact Mr H to try to clarify or confirm his
instructions. 1825 shouldve done that promptly on receipt of Mr Hs email.
Mr H has stressed that hed made up his own mind as to what he wanted to do and he didnt
want or need 1825s advice. And so, on that basis, any discussion wouldve been limited to
clarifying into which fund or funds he wanted to switch.
Mr H had an advisory relationship with 1825. The services and charges document set out
three levels of advisory client service. It also said that, in certain circumstances, a non
advised service could be offered. In that case, an appropriate recommendation wouldnt be
made and the clients instructions would simply be followed. An appropriateness assessment
might need to be completed. And 1825 has said that Mr H wouldve needed advance
approval as a self select client, which might not have been forthcoming. But, in theory at
least, it was open to Mr H to give an execution only instruction to 1825.
Mr H has pointed out that 1825s internal guidance says that the clients instruction will be
accepted. But that isnt unqualified. Its on the understanding that they have a clear
awareness of the implications of their actions. Mr H says he had that. But the adviser
wouldve needed to have satisfied himself of that before accepting Mr Hs instruction. The
internal guidance also says, if a client instructs disinvestment to cash to secure potential
gains, the pros and cons of that action must be brought to the clients attention. So there
would have been a discussion at least around the risks and implications of what Mr H was
thinking about doing. The guidance also says that, if a client asks for advice, 1825s
response must be that trying to time the markets isnt recommended.
I note all Mr H says about why 1825s corporate advice couldnt have been that clients
disinvest. But I dont think the situation was analogous to what happened during the financial
crisis and the collapse of Northern Rock. 1825s position isnt unusual. Research indicates
that long term buying and holding tends to outperform time in and out of the market and
which is generally regarded as a strategy thats difficult to get right.
I think timing the markets is a phrase thats commonly used and understood. I dont think
its pejorative. Mr H is also concerned about what the investigator termed a well reasoned
hunch. I can see why Mr H considers that might underplay his professional experience. Hed
weighed up the circumstances and reached a view about what he thought was most likely
going to happen to the markets and which turned out to be correct. But I dont think what the
investigator said indicates bias or any lack of empathy for Mr H.Mr H has stressed he didnt want or need advice. But I dont think the discussion with the
adviser that shouldve taken place wouldve been limited to into which fund(s) Mr H wanted
to switch. I think Mr H wouldve been receptive to hearing the advisers views. I note in his
second email hed like to discuss moving his funds to a lower risk category which indicates
he hadnt reached a firm decision. I think thats likely to have been his position when he sent
the first email too. I think Mr H wouldve sought 1825s advisers view. In line with the internal
guidance, the adviser wouldve advised Mr H not to switch funds and to remain invested.
In my view, had the adviser indicated that he wasnt able to agree with Mr Hs strategy, even
on a short term basis, I think its unlikely that Mr H wouldve maintained that he wanted to
switch into cash. 1825 had been Mr Hs advisers for some time and he doesnt seem to have
any history of acting without or contrary to their advice. I note what he says about the advice
not always being correct and the example he cited. But Im still not persuaded that hed have
been prepared to go ahead with the switch to cash had he been advised against. I think he
may have conceded that pensions are long term investments and that any short term
volatility wasnt a reason to change his overall investment strategy and which had only been
reviewed a few months earlier.
I note that the fact find completed in October 2019 in connection with the annual review
recorded (under Ability) that Mr H was able to continue investing at medium risk. And that
When the fund falls [he] simply sits tight and is investing for the long term . Asset
allocation was discussed and it was agreed to switch his 100% holding in MyFolio Managed
III to 100% MyFolio Market III.
And theres a note which says Mr H is more comfortable at medium risk although he feels
ordinarily he would consider himself medium to high risk but given all of the uncertainty in
the market place he feels continuing at medium risk is the most comfortable place for him to
be.
I think that supports what Ive said and that, despite Mr Hs nervousness about market
movements in February 2020, hes likely to have remained invested had there been a
discussion with the adviser. I dont think advice to remain invested wouldve been unsuitable.
Because I think Mr H is likely to have accepted advice to remain invested, what wouldve
happened if hed wanted to go ahead anyway isnt really relevant. But Ive considered that
too. It seems that 1825 wouldve needed to have treated Mr H as an insistent client  that is
one who wanted to proceed despite advice to the contrary. And 1825s internal guidance
about insistent clients has now been shared with Mr H.
Mr H has referred to what COBS 9.5A (Additional guidance for firms with insistent clients)
says. Mr H points out that COBS 9.5A.2G (Who is an insistent client) refers to an insistent
client being one where the firm has given a personal recommendation. The definition of a
personal recommendation in relation to advising on investments refers to a recommendation
to buy, sell, subscribe for, exchange, redeem, hold or underwrite a particular investment or
to exercise or not exercise any right conferred by such a relevant investment to buy, sell,
subscribe for, exchange or redeem such an investment. Advice not to switch into cash
would constitute a personal recommendation even if the advice was given orally and not
contained in a formal suitability letter.
If 1825s adviser had told Mr H that switching into cash wasnt recommended and, had Mr H
wanted to proceed anyway, Mr H wouldve qualified as an insistent client under COBS
9.5A.2G  that is a client who decides to enter into a transaction different from that
recommended by the firm and who wishes the firm to facilitate that transaction. Other firms
may have adopted a different stance and perhaps been more relaxed about facilitating a
switch to cash on a clients instruction. But, on the other hand, some firms wont facilitateinsistent client transactions at all and a firm doesnt have to accept that type of business.
1825 was entitled to have its own policies and procedures and I think it couldve treated Mr H
as an insistent client.
Mr H has said that he wasnt told when he entered into his contract with 1825 about when he
might be treated as an insistent client and the procedure that would be adopted in that
situation. I agree that the contractual documents dont deal with what will happen if Mr H
wanted to act contrary to 1825s advice. But all contracts will vary. I dont think every
eventuality will always be covered. The expectation would be, as 1825 was giving Mr H
advice for which he was paying, that hed generally follow that advice. In my view, even if the
contractual documents didnt mention insistent clients, that doesnt mean 1825 couldnt treat
Mr H as such and in accordance with 1825s procedures for dealing with that sort of client.
The internal guidance makes it clear that there are various stages in the process  for
example a suitability letter must be produced (which would advise against the switch); the
clients written instruction must be obtained and pre clearance is required. I think that
wouldve taken some time and Mr H may have missed out on what he saw as his opportunity
to protect the gains his fund had made. Further, I think the procedure wouldve concentrated
Mr Hs mind on whether he did want to proceed despite advice to the contrary. As Ive said
above, Im not convinced Mr H wouldve gone ahead if hed been advised against.
I know Mr H will be very disappointed by my views. I acknowledge that his case is somewhat
finely balanced. On the one hand, theres evidence  Mr Hs email of 11 February 2020 
that hed have switched into cash and so avoided the falls in the market later that month. But
looking at the wider circumstances, I dont think, on balance, and for the reasons Ive
explained, that wouldve been the outcome. And, even if hed now have been better off had
he switched and then re entered the markets on the dates hes suggested, 1825 isnt
responsible for his investment losses on the basis that advice to remain invested wouldve
been suitable.
I think the amounts paid by 1825 for its admitted service failings are fair and reasonable. I
dont think 1825 needs to do any more.
1825 didnt comment further in response to my provisional decision. Mr H did. He didnt 
agree with my findings. He said the facts hadnt been interpreted correctly. Ive summarised 
his main points:
My decision was based on a binary opinion. That is, whether it was likely, on the 
balance of probabilities, hed have enacted a transfer. Id acknowledged that was 
somewhat finely balanced. That meant hed been awarded nothing. I should instead 
consider making an award of, say, 50% of his notional losses. 
The only facts were what hed asked 1825 to do in his email of 11 February 2020 and 
his emails setting out when hed have reinvested. Because of 1825s failures, 
everything else was speculation. 
Having seen 1825s Insistent Client Policy, it wasnt relevant. Section 1.15 was the 
relevant provision. 1825 needs to be satisfied that the client fully understands the risk 
 see sections 1.15.2 and 1.15.3. Section 1.15.4 is designed to ensure there can be 
no subsequent claim against 1825. All references to the Insistent Client Policy and 
self select and execution only should be removed as section 1.15 doesnt mention 
them.   
Section 1.15 contains a requirement for the client to have a clear awareness of the 
implications of their actions. Mr H completely understood the risks and couldve 
quickly written a statement to that effect and which wouldnt have held up the 
process. Section 1.15.3 states that no advice must be given on this issue. 1825 cant suggest 
advice would be given when they were specifically instructed not to advise. Section 
1.15.3 clearly states (subject to 1.15.4) that the clients instruction will be accepted. 
Section 1.15.4 suggests advice can be given but only if the client asked for advice. It 
was speculation to say hed have asked for advice. He knew what 1825s advice 
would be before he decided to disinvest. It couldnt be concluded that hed have 
asked for 1825s advice. Thats why hed drawn an analogy with what happened with 
Northern Rock  if hed had savings with that institution, hed have withdrawn them 
as quickly as possible, despite advice from the authorities against so as to prevent 
liquidity problems. 
Not recommending trying to time the markets didnt mean the advice wouldve been 
to remain invested. Saying 1825 wouldnt recommend doing something isnt the 
same as saying 1825 would recommend doing nothing. The wording was deliberate 
and aimed at covering 1825 either way. 
Id said his email of 11 February 2020 wasnt a clear fund switch instruction. It 
couldnt have been as he needed to discuss fund options and codes and then do 
whatever was necessary to complete the transaction. But his email was clear, with no 
mention of any discussion. It was, in effect, an instruction and the paperwork couldve 
been completed in hours. His second email was merely a repeat request to find out 
what he needed to do. There was no basis to say hed have been receptive to 
hearing the advisers views or that hed have sought them. 
The fact that he was also seeking a cash drawdown wouldnt have made things more 
difficult.  
In his discussions with the adviser on 28 February 2020 his request had only briefly 
been touched on. Hed said hed missed the boat. It was by then too late to start the 
process as, due to 1825s fault, 17 days had been lost. Had there been an initial 
discussion shortly after 11 February 2020, the switch shouldve been completed well 
before 28 February 2020. 
He agreed he was happy in the medium risk category but ordinarily hed consider 
himself medium to high risk. He wasnt averse to making higher risk decisions. It 
didnt mean hed never consider a different strategy if circumstances (such as Covid) 
changed.  
Hed never thought Id find 100% in his favour. He accepted he couldnt conclusively 
prove that hed have fully executed his request. But neither could it be said with the 
same degree of certainty that hed have done nothing. He hadnt done anything 
wrong yet he felt he was on trial. 1825 had failed him. Theyd misled him and this 
service but Id agreed with 1825 at every step.
Id referred in my provisional decision to a call from the adviser on 26 February 2020. 
That was the date of an email and the call had been on 28 February 2020. He hadnt 
received any payments from 1825. Hed welcome the opportunity to finalise the 
matter by coming to a financial settlement with 1825 with our support. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr H is unhappy with my provisional decision. I note the figures hes suggested as 
to the extent of his losses and I can understand why he feels very strongly about what 
happened. 
Ive considered carefully the points hes made.  But, having done so, Im not persuaded to 
depart from the views I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive set those out in full above 
and what I said forms part of this final decision. Although Ive considered everything, Im not going to comment on all Mr H has said in 
response to my provisional decision and which would involve repeating some of my earlier 
findings. Instead Ive focused on what I see as his main points. 
I can understand why Mr H feels it might be fairer, as it isnt possible to say categorically 
what wouldve happened if 1825 had picked up his email of 11 February 2020 promptly, for 
me to make an award reflecting that uncertainty. And direct that Mr H should recover a 
proportion of his notional losses. And, as weve explained, that sort of approach might, in 
certain circumstances, be taken. But it isnt how we usually approach things. Resolving 
disputes is central to our work. Its often the case that whats happened isnt agreed. Or, 
even if its accepted that something has gone wrong, what wouldve happened had there 
been no error isnt agreed. 
Our aim in awarding redress is to put the consumer in the position theyd have been in, but 
for the business mistake. So it wont be enough for a complainant to show that something 
has gone wrong. Theyll also need to be able to show that a financial loss has been caused 
because of something the business did or didnt do. 
If the business doesnt accept that any loss has been caused, well need to investigate 
whats gone on and decide if things wouldve been different if the business had acted as it 
shouldve done. In that sort of situation it generally wont be possible to say with absolute 
certainty  and after the event - what wouldve happened. Well probably need to make some 
assumptions, based on such evidence as there is, as to what we think is more likely than not 
to have happened. 
Mr Hs email of 11 February 2020 is the starting point. I agree that email is a matter of fact 
and record. But his other emails, about when hed have reinvested, are based on what he 
wouldve done, had the switch to cash been made. 
1825 accepts that the email of 11 February 2020 was overlooked. As Ive explained, that 
doesnt mean it would be fair and reasonable to make some award for financial loss, even in 
respect of only a proportion of Mr Hs losses and to take into account that theres uncertainty 
as to what wouldve happened. To make any award, I need to be satisfied that its more 
likely than not that Mr H wouldve switched to cash in February 2020. 
Ive addressed that question by considering all the evidence, including all Mr H has said, 
against the background of what 1825s obligations were. 
I agree that section 1.15 is the main provision. But even though I dont think the Insistent 
Client Policy is central, its part of 1825s arguments and so I need to address it. And it 
wouldve come into play had Mr H wanted to act contrary to the adviser saying he didnt 
recommend a switch to cash. Although my view is that things wouldnt have got that far.  
I said, and Mr H accepts, that his email of 11 February 2020 wasnt a fund switch instruction 
on which 1825 couldve immediately acted. Mr H needed to confirm into which fund or funds 
he wanted to switch (and what amounts) with the relevant fund code(s). So thered have 
been some discussion with the adviser about any switch. 
The adviser wouldve needed to have been sure that Mr H understood the implications of his 
actions. I dont think thats an issue as such. I accept that Mr H couldve satisfied the adviser 
that he did understand the risks and implications of any decision to switch to cash. So, in 
theory at least, the fund switch wouldve gone ahead. As Mr H notes, section 1.15.3 says the 
clients instructions will be accepted. But I think the question is whether Mr H wouldve actually implemented a switch. Hes said 
hed already decided to switch and that he wouldnt have asked for advice  which (under 
section 1.15.3) 1825 couldnt give, unless (see section 1.15.4) Mr H asked for advice. 
Moreover, Mr H says he knew what 1825s advice would be  that he should remain 
invested. 
I dont agree with what Mr H has said about why 1825 had to maintain that line. Or that the 
situation was akin to what happened with Northern Rock. 1825 was giving individual advice 
to its clients, including Mr H, depending on their particular circumstances. 1825s default 
position was that it didnt recommend that clients try to time the markets. I think that was 
borne out of its experience generally and its view about that sort of strategy  that it was 
difficult to get right. I dont think theres anything to suggest that 1825s policy was wider or 
aimed at preserving market stability. Not do I agree that it was designed to protect 1825s 
position in any event. 
In looking at what Mr Hs position was when he sent the email on 11 February 2020, I think 
the follow up email he sent on 19 February 2020 is relevant and sheds some light on Mr Hs 
thinking. Mr H says the second email was a repeat request to find out what he needed to do 
in order to switch his funds to cash. But, in that second email, Mr H said he wanted to 
discuss moving his funds to a lower risk category. I think that suggests he hadnt made a 
settled decision to switch when he emailed on 11 February 2020. I think, if he had, his 
second email wouldve been worded differently. I think Mr H wouldve made it clear that hed 
expected his earlier email to have been acted on and request that the switch be expedited 
and possibly backdated. I think that sort of sentiment would also have been reflected in the 
conversation when he did later speak to the adviser. 
I maintain that its likely thered have been some discussion between Mr H and the adviser 
on receipt of the email of 11 February 2020. And I think the upshot of the conversation 
wouldve been that the adviser didnt recommend that Mr H should switch. I still think Mr H is 
likely to have accepted that and so he wouldnt have proceeded with a fund switch in 
February 2020. 
I note what Mr H has said about trying to reach a settlement, assisted by us, with 1825. Mr H 
complained to 1825. Although it accepted it hadnt done everything it shouldve done, it didnt 
uphold Mr Hs complaint that hed suffered financial loss by not switching to cash in February 
2020. Mr H then referred his complaint to us. Weve looked into it and weve let Mr H and 
1825 what we think. At this stage we arent going to try to negotiate a settlement with 1825. 
In my provisional decision I said I thought the sums paid by 1825 were fair and reasonable 
and 1825 didnt need to do any more. I note that Mr H says hes not received any payments 
from 1825. Ive said below that 1825 should pay to Mr H the sums previously offered. 
My final decision
Standard Life Client Management Limited trading as 1825 has already made an offer to pay 
Mr H compensation of £175.22 for delay in connection with the withdrawal plus, in total, 
£450 for distress and inconvenience arising from its service failings and delay in 
investigating the complaint. 
I think thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Standard Life Client Management Limited trading as 1825 should pay 
those sums to Mr H. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman