DRN-4061091
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt process a payment he instructed in a timely 
manner and with the service he received surrounding this issue.
What happened
Mr D instructed a large payment to a solicitor for a property purchase. Mr D needed the 
payment to complete that same day and made several calls to HSBC and a lengthy branch 
visit to try to achieve this. But despite Mr Ds efforts, the instructed payment was flagged for 
further checks by HSBC late that day, which meant the payment wasnt completed by the 
time Mr D needed it to have been. And because the payment didnt complete that day, Mr D 
incurred additional costs of £2,285.18. Mr D wasnt happy about this, or with the service hed 
received from HSBC surrounding the transfer, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr Ds complaint and said they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by 
flagging the payment for further checks or following the subsequent process that they had, 
which included attempting to contact Mr D on his mobile telephone to authorise the payment, 
and so didnt agree to reimburse Mr Ds incurred costs as he was seeking. 
However, HSBC did acknowledge that Mr D hadnt received the standard of service he 
should have received when trying to contact HSBC about the instructed payment, and they 
apologised to Mr D for this and made a payment of £30 as compensation for any trouble or 
upset he may have incurred. Mr D wasnt satisfied with HSBCs responses, so he referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with Mr D and HSBC about it. 
During this time, HSBC reiterated that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly regarding process 
that had been followed but explained that they felt the compensation amount of £30 paid to 
Mr D for the service aspect of his complaint hadnt been sufficient and offered to pay a 
further £170 to Mr D because of this  taking the total compensation payable to £200.
Our investigator completed their review and felt HSBC had followed a reasonable process in 
requiring further checks on the payment and that HSBCs increased offer of £200 
compensation was a fair offer for the service issues Mr D had encountered. Mr D remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud prevention systems are used by all financial institutions to flag account activity that 
may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an account where its felt that there is a 
possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. Indeed, it must be noted that financial 
institutions such as HSBC have an obligation to employ such systems to comply with 
banking regulations which require banks to have systems in place to protect their customers 
accounts, as much as possible, from acts of attempted fraud.
 
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there will be instances 
where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged erroneously by the fraud prevention 
systems. This seems to have been what happened here. And given the size of the instructed 
transfer, I dont feel that its unreasonable for it to have triggered HSBCs system.
Its understandable that Mr D was eager for the payment to complete that day, and so I can 
understand why he spoke with HSBC on several occasions after instructing the transfer to 
ask why it hadnt yet completed. And Mr D has explained that he was told by HSBC when 
making those calls that the payment hadnt been stopped for further checks by HSBCs fraud 
prevention systems. This information wasnt incorrect at the time HSBCs agents gave it to 
Mr D, because the payment didnt trigger HSBCs fraud prevention systems until after 4pm in 
the afternoon, which was after Mr D spoke with those agents. 
After speaking with HSBCs agents, and with the instructed transfer having still not 
completed, Mr D decided to go into a HSBC branch to try to expedite the matter. And it was 
while Mr D was in branch, and unfortunately without his phone, that the payment did trigger 
HSBCs fraud prevention systems and when Mr D was called by HSBCs fraud department 
to authorise the stopped payment. 
Taking all these points into consideration it seems to me that whats happened here is a 
series of unfortunate events. Mr D was eager for payment to complete and so telephoned 
HSBC when the payment hadnt yet triggered HSBCs fraud prevention systems which 
meant that HSBCs agents at that time had nothing untoward to report. And when HSBCs 
fraud prevention system was triggered, so that HSBC did call Mr D to authorise the payment, 
Mr D was no longer with his phone to answer that call, having gone into branch.
But, while I accept that the above sequence of events was unfortunate, it doesnt follow from 
this that Mr D has been treated unfairly by HSBC here. Indeed, given that HSBCs fraud 
department did attempt to call Mr D to authorise the payment shortly after it triggered their 
fraud prevention system, Im satisfied that HSBC did do what they should have done. And I 
also feel that if Mr D had access to his phone when HSBCs fraud department made that 
call, that the payment would have been authorised by Mr D at that time and completed on 
that day as he would have liked.
Mr D may ask why it took so long for the instructed payment to trigger HSBCs fraud 
prevention system, and I acknowledge that most payments that do trigger such systems do 
so more quickly than happened in this instance. But HSBC have explained that an instructed 
payment can trigger their system at any time during its processing. And while the late 
triggering of the transfer was another unfortunate event here that contributed to the 
unsatisfactory eventual outcome for Mr D, it remains my position that it wasnt unreasonable 
for the instructed transfer to have triggered HSBCs system as it eventually did.
Mr D is also unhappy that HSBCs branch staff were unable to help him when he went into 
branch and cites a lack of coordination and communication between HSBCs central 
departments and its branch, including that branch staff had to try to contact the telephone 
banking and fraud departments using the same telephone numbers that customers use, 
which meant long hold times before calls to those departments were answered.
I can appreciate Mr Ds frustration here. But, given that Mr D had already instructed the 
transfer, I feel that by going into branch to try to expedite that transfer, Mr D was asking 
branch staff to help him resolve a matter that was being processed by HSBCs centralised 
departments. And I dont feel its reasonable to expect branch staff to be able to effectively 
assist in such centralised matters, or to expect branches to have a hot line to centralised departments  which would amount to jumping the queue and would mean other customers 
trying to contact those departments via other channels would have to unfairly wait longer.  
Mr D also asks why he wasnt told by HSBC to go into branch to instruct the transfer in the 
first instance, which he later learned may have been a more effective means of completing 
the payment, given the authentication that could be completed in branch. But when Mr D first 
spoke with HSBC about the intended transfer, which he did approximately a week before he 
instructed it, its notable that he didnt highlight that the transfer needed to complete by a 
certain time. As such, Im satisfied that the agent Mr D spoke with at that time had no reason 
to suspect that an instruction made via telephone banking might be potentially unsuitable.
Ultimately, I dont feel HSBC have done anything wrong in how they processed Mr Ds 
attempted transfer here. This is because Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the payment 
to have triggered HSBCs fraud prevention systems as it did, and also because HSBCs 
fraud department did try to contact Mr D when the payment was stopped for further checks. 
And while its unfortunate that Mr D wasnt with his phone when HSBC made that call, I dont 
feel that it was unfair.
Finally, HSBC have acknowledged that Mr D didnt receive the standard of service they 
aspire to when trying to instruct the transfer or when later contacting them about it, including 
in how Mr D was repeatedly transferred to different agents so that he was on the telephone 
for longer than he reasonable should have been. HSBC have paid compensation of £30 to 
Mr D for this and have now offered to pay a further £170 to him, so that the total 
compensation payable is £200. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But the £200 total compensation offered by 
HSBC  solely for the service issues Mr D encountered here  does feel fair to me. And I 
can confirm its commensurate with what I may have instructed HSBC to pay, had they not 
already offered to do so. 
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ds favour, Ill only be 
doing so on a limited basis to compel HSBC to pay the further £170 to Mr D that theyve 
already offered to pay. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but I hope that 
hell understand, given all Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a further payment of £170 to Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman