DRN-4098057
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Monzo Bank Ltds actions regarding a chargeback for three 
payments to a car rental company. 
What happened
Mr C discovered payments to a car rental company, which he didnt recognise. Accordingly, 
he contacted Monzo to raise a chargeback. He provided evidence, but Monzo said he also 
needed to submit a selfie to prove it was him, and further evidence. Ultimately, Monzo was 
out of time to process the chargeback, so Mr C complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, and recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld. He thought Monzo should refund the three transactions, adding 
8% simple interest a year, from the date the chargeback request was declined. This was 
because he was satisfied that Mr C had provided enough information for Monzo to have 
raised a chargeback within time. 
Monzo disagreed. In summary, it said that it was trying to get as much evidence as it could, 
to show why the payments should be disputed. This would provide the best chance of a 
chargeback being successful. Specifically, Monzo said it didnt have evidence of Mr C having 
contacted the car rental company using a new email address he was given, after he 
contacted it at its main headquarters.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where I havent commented on any particular point, its not because I havent considered it. 
Rather, its because I dont think I need to comment on it, in order to reach a fair outcome. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
Having looked at whats happened, I agree that Monzo didnt do as much as it should have. I 
can see that Mr C did provide a selfie. He also provided a screenshot of attempted contact, 
but Monzo wouldnt accept it. I feel that it would have been reasonable to use this 
information, and process a chargeback. I appreciate it may not have been exactly what 
Monzo wanted, but theres nothing to persuade me it wouldnt have been sufficient. And 
certainly, it would have been better than not attempting the chargeback at all.
On this basis, I feel that Monzo could have processed a chargeback. Although it isnt a 
consumer right, wed expect it to happen if there were a reasonable chance of success. 
Here, theres nothing to persuade me, on balance, that it wouldnt have succeeded. 
Accordingly, Monzo should put Mr C in the position hed have been in, had the chargeback 
been successful.
Putting things right
To put things right, Monzo should refund the three transactions, adding 8% simple interest a 
year, from the date Monzo told Mr C his chargeback could not/would not be pursued. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr C the 
amount set out above, in the section Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman