DRN-1461435
The complaint
Mr B and Miss W complain about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a 
claim made on their motor insurance policy. Miss W is a named driver on Mr Bs policy. They 
want Admiral to cover the cost of repairs they say were caused by its approved garage and 
to compensate them for their trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident and he made a claim. Admirals approved repairer 
assessed the car and Admiral offered Mr B a cash in lieu settlement for the cost of repairs. 
Mr B accepted this but when he came to collect the car, he found that it had further damage 
then hed been told. Also, he couldnt drive the car and had to pay for its removal. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that, on 
balance, further damage to the car had been caused either by the accident or by the 
repairing garage. He also thought Admiral should take some responsibility for the recovery of 
the car. He recommended that Admiral should pay Mr B £500 for the cost of additional 
repairs, £150 towards the recovery costs and £250 for his trouble and upset. 
Admiral replied that some of the repairs issues were due to wear and tear or maintenance. It 
said other issues were pre-existing and not its responsibility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Bs policy entitles Admiral to decide to offer a cash settlement rather than 
repair his car. So I think Admiral should reasonably have given Mr B enough information 
about the accident-related damage to make an informed decision to accept its offer. 
Admiral offered Mr B £4,268.11, less the £100 policy excess, in settlement of his claim. Mr B 
said he understood that the damage caused by the accident was to the bodywork, petrol 
cap, and wheel alignment. The car was due to have maintenance carried out on the brakes 
at the next service. But I havent seen that there were issues with the brakes seizing before 
the car was taken to the approved repairer. So I think Mr B accepted the cash in lieu 
settlement on this basis. 
Mr B said he drove the car to and from Admirals approved repairer where it was assessed. 
He said the repairer then collected the car and drove it to the garage. The repairer later 
drove the car on and off a recovery vehicle in the course of assessments. 
But when Mr B came to collect his car, he found that the key had deprogrammed, the brakes 
were seized and the battery was flat. He then had to arrange for the car to be collected by a 
recovery vehicle and taken to his own garage for repair. He said Admirals delays meant that 
he incurred an increased charge for the recovery.
I can see that Admiral asked for a copy of the repairs estimate that Mr Bs garage provided. 
It wasnt satisfied by this and so it appointed an independent assessor to examine the car. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id expect if there was a dispute about repairs. 
The independent assessor initially said the damage to the brakes was caused by the car 
being towed backwards. But Admiral said its repairer had told it that the brakes were seized 
after it was taken to the garage. It thought this was due to wear and tear. Admiral said this 
wasnt due to the accident or its repairer. And so it declined to cover the costs. 
From what I can see, the independent assessor then submitted a revised report. He now 
said that the brakes were locked due to the ignition key and electronic handbrake module 
not communicating. He pointed out that the key was damaged. But he didnt say that this 
damage had caused the problem. Admiral decided that these problems were due to wear 
and tear and it again declined responsibility.
But I dont think Admiral has justified this decision. The car was driveable, although pulling to 
one side, after the accident. There was wear to the brakes and the key, but these didnt 
make the car undriveable. When the car was returned to Mr B by the approved repairer it 
had new problems:
The battery was now flat. Mr B said the car had previously been left unused for periods 
without this occurring. Mr B said the garage told him that an employee may have left a 
door open. Admiral first said that the flat battery was due to the time the car was on site 
at the repairers. It later said that the battery would have been disconnected. But if this 
was so, then it seems likely that the repairer would have noticed the flat battery and 
recharged it when the car was readied for recovery. So I think Admiral is responsible for 
this.
The cars key needed to be re-programmed. The key was worn but worked prior to the 
car being taken to the approved repairer. I think, on balance, that its not coincidental that 
the key failed at the same time as the battery. I dont think Admiral has justified not 
taking responsibility for this. 
And, as the independent assessor said, because the key wasnt working the brakes 
seized. And so I think Admiral should also take responsibility for this. 
I havent enough information to say whether these problems were caused by the accident 
itself or whether they were caused at the garage instead. But I think Admiral hasnt justified 
its decision that they werent related to the accident or due to the repairer. And so I think 
Admirals cash in lieu offer to Mr B wasnt fair and reasonable as it didnt give Mr B enough 
information about the damage to make his decision to accept its offer.
Putting things right
Mr B incurred extra costs for his repairs. The investigator recommended that Admiral should 
pay Mr B £500 as an estimate of the amount he could have argued to have his settlement 
offer increased by if hed had a fuller understanding of the repairs required. Looking at the 
independent assessors and Mr Bs garages estimates, I think thats fair and reasonable.
I think the approved garage didnt have Mr Bs car ready for recovery as agreed. He hadnt 
been told the car wasnt driveable and would need different arrangements. So Mr B incurred 
extra costs. Admiral had earlier said it would cover reasonable recovery costs. So I think it 
should pay for the extra charges. Looking at the emails with the recovering garage, I think 
Admiral should contribute £150 towards these. Miss W and Mr B spent a lot of time arguing their case and raising their concerns with 
Admiral. I think this caused them unnecessary stress and inconvenience. The investigator 
recommended that Admiral should pay Mr B £250 compensation for this. I think thats fair 
and reasonable as its what Id require in similar situations.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £900 compensation for the financial losses 
and the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman