DRN-3063571
The complaint
Ms R has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted unfairly when it continued charging 
her excessive amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Ms R complained to TSB after it sold her debt to a third party. She says it wasnt fair that the 
debt sold consisted of overdraft fees and charges. TSB didnt uphold the complaint. And as 
Ms R was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Ms Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that TSB ought 
to have realised that Ms R was experiencing financial difficulty by March 2014 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. TSB 
responded but didnt offer any new information to change the adjudicators view. So the case 
was passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that TSB acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Ms Rs overdraft in 
March 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms R was in no position to 
sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Ms R was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. TSBs own literature suggests that overdrafts 
are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think 
that Ms Rs overdraft usage should have prompted TSB to have realised that Ms R wasnt 
using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
As TSB didnt react to Ms Rs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Ms R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that TSB didnt 
treat Ms R fairly and she lost out because of what TSB did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Rs complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from March 2014 are removed.
AND
Because TSB has sold an outstanding balance on this account to a third-party 
debt purchaser, or asked a third-party to collect the balance on its behalf it will 
need to either buy the account back from the third-party and make the necessary 
adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Ms R an amount to ensure that it fully complies 
with this direction.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give Ms 
R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint. TSB Bank plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman