DRN-2282898
The complaint
Ms G complains that Qmetric Group Limited trading as Policy Expert (Qmetric) mis-sold 
a buildings insurance policy which was unsuitable for her needs. She would like the 
premiums refunded.
What happened
Ms G jointly owner a property with her mother but didnt live there. Her mother passed away 
and Ms G became sole owner of the property. She wanted to arrange buildings insurance for 
the property and found Qmetric via an online search engine. Ms G and her partner spoke 
with Qmetric but didnt purchase a policy at that point. But she did so a few days later via a 
discount website, completing the application online. She confirmed that the property would 
be occupied by herself and her family, once or twice a week.
About ten days later Ms G called Qmetric to ask if the policy included legal protection cover. 
She explained a potential dispute had arisen with a close family member over her mothers 
Estate. She said the family member was intermittently occupying the property pending the 
completion of funeral arrangements. They were due to leave and return the keys, but she 
thought they might not. Her solicitor had suggested she check if she had legal expenses 
cover on the policy.
Qmetric confirmed that legal protection cover hadnt been included. It said it could be added 
but any issue already known about wouldnt be covered. Details about who would occupy 
the property were discussed. It was confirmed that Ms G had answered questions about this 
appropriately, so no amendments were needed. Qmetric suggested she might want to try 
other insurers in respect of the legal protection issue.
A few days later Ms G attended the property and had to use a locksmith to gain entry. Inside 
she found there was considerable damage to both property and contents. Some items were 
missing, but there was no sign of forced entry. Ms G says she contacted the police, who 
interviewed the family member. They denied any involvement saying the damage must have 
occurred after they had left the property. But Ms G felt they were responsible for what had 
happened. 
Ms G made a claim on the policy which Qmetric declined. It said the policy specifically didnt 
cover malicious damage or theft caused by persons lawfully occupying the property as 
appeared to be the case here. 
Ms G complained that the policy was mis-sold as Qmetric had failed to make sure the policy 
was suitable for her needs. Qmetric rejected her complaint, so Ms G referred it to our 
service. Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint in part. He said Qmetric hadnt 
provided any advice about the policy but had a duty to give information so Ms G could make 
an informed choice. He said the documentation Ms G had completed online was clear and 
set out what cover was provided and what was excluded, so Ms G had enough information 
to decide if the policy was suitable for her. He said it wasnt reasonable to expect Qmetric to 
pay the claim.
But he said he wasnt satisfied Qmetric had fully considered Ms G unusual circumstances 
when she called about the legal protection. He said whilst the policy hadnt been mis-sold 
and it wasnt for Qmetric to recommend alternative policies it should make a compensation 
payment for Ms Gs distress and inconvenience of £75 as it hadnt managed her 
expectations during the call.
Our investigator said as Ms G had raised concerns about the family member but was 
reassured the policy was appropriate for her despite there being limitations in the cover in 
respect of the family member occupying the property.
Ms G accepted our investigators view but Qmetric disagreed. It asked for clarification on why 
there was a loss of expectation and what limitations of the policy could have been elaborated 
on. As Qmetric doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision
 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 August 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I planning to not uphold the complaint. I said:
This is a very unfortunate situation and I have great sympathy for Ms G. But having listened 
to the calls I dont think Qmetric could have been reasonably expected to have done any 
more than it did in terms of managing Ms Gs expectations. Or in further explaining any 
limitations of the policy coverage. 
Qmetric wasnt providing advice and Ms G had already taken the policy out. When she 
applied online, she said the property would be occupied by herself and family for one or two 
days a week. The discussion with Qmetric covered the same area as had the property been 
let out to third parties or unoccupied for example, it might not have been covered by the 
policy.
 
The policy excluded malicious damage caused and or theft carried out by someone lawfully 
in the property. This is a standard condition in property insurance, likely to have applied to 
any policy in the market that Ms G could have taken out. These conditions had already been 
disclosed to and accepted by Ms G. So, as what appears to have happened here was never 
covered by the policy, I dont think there can reasonably be a loss of expectation.
When Ms G called about the legal cover, she said she wanted the property insured pending 
its probable sale. And that the family member had advised they were occupying the property 
purely for the purpose of arranging the funeral and would be leaving in a few days. 
The concern expressed was in connection with possible legal expenses should they not 
leave, rather than wider aspects of the policy cover. She said the family members attitude 
had shocked her, suggesting to me that it was untypical. She didnt mention any further 
concerns she may have had about deliberate damage or theft arising from the dispute.
So, I didnt think it fair to expect Qmetric to have anticipated and raised the possibility of this 
occurring in order to specifically advise the policy didnt provide cover for this eventuality. If it 
had raised this, it might easily have offended Ms G by doing so. Qmetric did suggest she 
seek alternative views on legal protection cover and I thought it had treated Ms G fairly and 
reasonably in answering her queries. So, I couldnt ask it to do anything further here.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 28 September 2020.
Response to provisional decision Qmetric made no comment.
Ms G said she was very disappointed with the provisional decision and made several points: 
She said her Partner had discussed the policy at length with Qmetric on 21 March 2019 
before taking it out and doubted our service had been provided with a transcript of this call. 
She said her Partner called to discuss the circumstances and to disclose the information 
they had at the time and she firmly believed they had disclosed all the circumstances of the 
situation.
Ms G said that in this conversation they were assured the policy being sold was correct for 
their needs.
She also said that whilst the clause about malicious damage might be common it was buried 
in numerous pages of clauses and how was a member of the public to know this is the case. 
She said such a critical clause should be made more obvious. 
Ms G said the death of relative isnt unusual and many people would suddenly need to find 
insurance for a property. As surely it is:
encumbent (sic) on the insurance company to provide a product that is suitable for 
this purpose where disputes amongst relatives can and frequently do occur and 
could reasonably anticipated by those selling insurance policies.
She said having provided all the information via internet and several telephone 
conversations she expected to have cover that was suitable for her needs and her 
expectations hadnt been managed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
The calls and disclosure of information
Our service was been provided with recordings of the calls with Qmetric, from 21 March and 
2 April 2020. Ive listened to these again in the light of Ms G comments summarised above. 
In the first call there was lengthy discussion about the occupancy of the property. This 
included whether this should be classed as a second home or a holiday property, the latter 
being dismissed on grounds of cost. The call handler suggested they could speak to their 
existing insurer and then put them through to BIBA (a trade body representing brokers which 
might offer access to a wider range of insurers) to give them the opportunity to shop around.  
Ms G didnt tell Qmetric she anticipated a dispute of any kind in the first call. But evidence 
provided in respect of the claim suggests that when the first call was made a significant 
dispute with the family member staying in the property at the time already existed. The 
evidence also suggests that people other than family members may also have been staying 
at the property. A possible dispute was mentioned on the 2 April 2020 call but again the 
evidence suggests this was already both more advanced and serious than was indicated on 
that call.  So, I dont think Qmetric was provided all circumstances of the situation in either call. If it 
had been it might have provided an explanation of the possible limitations of cover under this 
and I think, very probably any other policy in the market place. But I dont think it is 
reasonable to expect Qmetric to have second guessed the situation.   
Suitability of the product
Insurers can choose what products to offer and the policy and terms and conditions form the 
basis of the contract of insurance. Qmetric wasnt providing Ms G with advice. When the 
policy documents were sent to Ms G, she was asked to check the details and advised that it 
was her responsibility to assess the suitability of the product(s) offered. 
The exclusion relating to malicious damage is where Id expect to see it in this type of policy 
and attention is drawn to the exclusions applying on the first page of the policy wording. 
Unfortunately for Mrs G the policy never provided cover against what happened. offered 
cover for the 
I dont think Qmetric has treated Ms G unfairly or unreasonably. It suggested that she speak 
to other providers on both calls. I dont think Ms G provided it with adequate information to 
enable it to manage her expectations any further than it did, so I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman