DRN-4343122
The complaint
Mr A has complained that he wasnt aware UIA (Insurance) Limited (UIA) would record 
information about a claim he made under a home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2018, Mr A made a claim for damage to a phone. He later withdrew it. A few years later, 
another insurer told Mr A the claim had been recorded on a database. He complained to UIA 
because he said he was unaware of this. He said he would have dealt with the claim 
differently if he had known there would be a record of it and that it had affected his premiums
When UIA replied, it said that although the claim was withdrawn, costs had been incurred by 
a supplier that was instructed to validate the claim. It said that as there was an outlay, the 
claim needed to be recorded. 
So, Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Mr A would have been aware that he made a claim. He was later told that the cost of the 
repair was less than the excess and Mr A then withdrew the claim. UIA was required to 
record the claim.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 August 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) is a database that records insurance claims 
and incidents, including for home insurance. UIA provides information to CUE and where it 
responds to a claim, this must be recorded on CUE. This remains the case even where a 
claim is declined or withdrawn.
Mr A made a claim for damage to his mobile phone. UIA said it could repair the phone, 
which would cost about £50. However, the excess on the policy was £100. Mr A withdrew 
the claim. Regardless of this, Mr A had made a claim. UIA had also incurred costs to 
investigate the claim because it appointed a supplier who assessed the phone. UIA was 
required to report this to CUE, which is what it did.
Mr A has said he wasnt aware of this and that he would have pursued the claim and got his 
phone replaced had he known. However, from what Ive seen, UIA wasnt offering to replace 
the phone. All it offered was a repair. The repair cost less than the excess.
Mr A has also said the claim affected his premiums. UIA has told this service the withdrawn 
claim didnt affect the premiums. Im aware Mr A has said the premium increased each year 
well above inflation, but this complaint isnt about the broader issue of the premiums 
charged. Based on what Ive currently seen, the claim didnt affect the premium charged by 
UIA, even if the premium increased when the policy renewed.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 14 September 2023. Neither party provided any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. I havent found any reason to change my view about what is a fair outcome to this 
complaint. As a result, I dont require UIA to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman