DRN-2866089
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr X complain about the customer service they received from Zurich Assurance 
Ltd. They say they were asked an unnecessary amount of security questions when trying to 
change their address. And that theyve been discriminated against because of their 
background and treated differently to other customers. 
What happened
Mrs S and Mr X had decreasing life cover with Zurich. In February 2020 they telephoned 
Zurich to notify them of a change of address. Not happy with the service they received, the 
couple complained to Zurich. They said theyd both been asked an unnecessary amount of 
questions  and asked why this had been needed given they just wanted to change their 
address. Mrs S and Mr X said theyd been discriminated against and treated differently to 
other customers. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It apologised for any upset caused but said it had 
complied with its usual security procedures to make sure theyre speaking to the correct 
person. Zurich added that this procedure included the need to speak to both policy holders 
individually in order to change the address for them both. 
Mrs S and Mr X referred their complaint to our service. They said Zurich had acted 
unprofessionally towards them and discriminated against them based on their background. 
Mr X said his wifes English wasnt very good, but shed tried to answer the questions to the 
best of her ability. They wanted all the premiums paid on their policy refunded and £1,000 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to them. 
Our investigator considered Mrs S and Mr Xs complaint but didnt uphold it. He listened to 
the telephone conversation theyd had with Zurich and said Zurich had acted in accordance 
with its procedures in ensuring the security of all its customers. And he didnt think Zurich 
acted unprofessionally of discriminated against Mrs S and Mr X. 
Mrs S and Mr X disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans 
final decision. They said theyd provided more than enough information to pass the security 
checks and that the questions Zurich asked were unreasonable. They said what they 
experienced was aggressive and unnecessary  and they wanted us to carry out an 
investigation to see if other Zurich customers were treated in this way. 
Mrs S and Mr X also reiterated why they thought it was unnecessary for them both to pass 
security for their address to be changed. And maintained that Zurich had discriminated 
against them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mrs S and Mr X and Id like to 
assure them I havent made this decision lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at and considered 
all the evidence they and Zurich have provided to us  including the February 2020 
telephone call and Zurichs security procedures. And Id like to assure Mrs S and Mr X that if 
I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but to focus instead 
on whats important to the outcome.
Its clear from what Mrs S and Mr X have told us that they feel very strongly about this
complaint. I appreciate theyre upset with the way theyve been treated. But for me to uphold 
this complaint, I must be satisfied that Zurich has done something wrong. And in this case, I 
dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
Having listened to the February 2020 telephone call, I can understand why Mrs S and Mr X 
felt frustrated. To their minds they had a simple request  to change their address  and I 
think Zurich couldve been clearer from the outset about why they needed the information 
they did. And that they would need both Mrs S and Mr X to answer the security questions 
correctly so the address on the policy could be changed for both of them. 
But the questions Zurich asked were clear and unambiguous. As was Zurichs explanation 
as to why it needed to ask more questions when security wasnt passed. Once Mr X passed 
security the situation improved. But things deteriorated again at the point Zurich needed to 
speak to Mrs S. Mr X had been told no further questions were needed  but Zurich tried to 
explain why they needed Mrs S to pass security too so her address could be updated - and 
offered alternative solutions about how Mrs Ss address could be changed without the need 
for her to answer any more questions. 
I can completely appreciate the frustration felt by both Mrs S and Mr X at this point. But Im 
satisfied this information was needed from them both to comply with data protection 
requirements and is consistent with whats outlined in Zurichs security procedures. And 
given this was a joint policy  its correct that both Mrs S and Mr X needed to pass the 
necessary checks if they wanted the address changed for them both. And so, taking 
everything into account, I cant say Zurich did anything wrong here.  
Mrs S and Mr X said Zurich had been aggressive and unprofessional during the telephone 
call. But having listened to the call, I dont agree. And I dont think Zurichs representatives 
were deliberately trying to make things difficult.
Mrs S and Mr X also say Zurich discriminated against them given the problems theyve 
experienced  and have specifically mentioned their background and poor English. I can 
understand why Mrs S and Mr X feel this way, but having looked at all the evidence, I dont 
think Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
I can see how Mrs S and Mr X feel strongly that Zurich treated them differently to other 
customers. But the type and number of questions they were asked were in line with Zurichs 
security procedures  in particular the need to ask further security questions when incorrect 
answers are given. So, whilst I fully understand Mrs S and Mr Xs strength of feeling, Ive no 
reason to believe Zurich treated them any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances. I hope that it helps Mrs S and Mr X to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into their concerns.  
Having carefully considered everything, while I appreciate Mrs S and Mr Xs strength of 
feeling, I dont believe Zurich acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. And so, I 
wont be asking it to take any action. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr X to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman