DRN-2088628
The complaint
Mr Ds representative has complained, on his behalf, that he wasnt advised by Chase de 
Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited to start buying added years in his employers 
occupational pension scheme rather than topping up his Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (FSAVC) arrangement.
Mr Ds representative has said that hes been financially disadvantaged by this.
What happened
Mr D established an FSAVC policy in 1992, upon the advice of a different business. He was 
employed by the NHS, and so had the option of both the in house AVC and added years 
alternatives.  
In March 1998, Mr D wished to increase his contributions, so approached a business called 
Medical Money Management Group (MMM), which was later taken over by Chase de Vere in 
2017, in order to do so.
The plan rules wouldnt allow Mr D to increase his contributions to the existing policy, so a 
new one was established with the same provider, for a further monthly contribution of £50.
In February 2019, Mr Ds representative complained to MMM on the above grounds. In 
response, Chase de Vere said that MMM was simply acting on Mr Ds instructions in 1998 
and didnt provide him with advice. It said it was acting for him on an execution only 
capacity, and although it offered to look into possible alternatives, Mr D wanted to increase 
the contributions to his existing arrangement.
Mr D submitted his complaint to this service, where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators.
Having considered the complaint, the investigator thought it should be upheld. He said the 
following in summary:
Chase de Vere was required to draw Mr Ds attention to the in house options, and 
their associated benefits, as part of the FSAVC top up sale. As Chase de Vere 
asserted that no advice was given, evidence hadnt been submitted that Chase de 
Vere fulfilled this requirement.
The issue to determine, therefore, was whether the sale of the FSAVC top up in 1998 
was advised or non-advised.
The investigator noted that, on 13 March 1998, Chase de Vere sent Mr D a letter, 
along with a plan quotation, explaining that hed need to establish a new policy as the 
existing FSAVC policy wouldnt allow increased contributions.
A note of a phone conversation with Mr D on 25 March 1998 recorded that hed been 
told by Chase de Vere that there would be better alternatives available, but that hed 
need to take out a new policy with the same provider to avoid adverse effects on his 
existing policy.
At a subsequent meeting on 1 April 1998, Chase de Vere suggested that Mr D make 
his existing FSAVC policy paid up and that he establish a different plan with a new 
provider. But Mr D was reluctant to do so as hed incur a high level of charges. 
Chase de Vere said that, whilst it wouldnt recommend that he stay with the same 
provider, it understood his position and that he had no reasonable alternative.
During the same meeting, information was obtained relating to his attitude to 
investment risk, his objectives and his employers scheme. Chase de Vere completed 
a form which recorded the existing providers FSAVC plan as the recommended 
product, and Mr D signed the application form.
Based upon the above circumstances, the investigator concluded that Chase de Vere 
had entered into an advisory process with Mr D. He didnt think that, just because it 
was Mr Ds idea to increase his contributions, he hadnt received advice. 
And in support of that conclusion, the investigator noted that Chase de Vere had 
obtained illustrations, identified the issue with increasing his contributions, and 
sourced an alternative product based upon Mr Ds objectives. Chase de Vere also 
suggested alternative methods of increasing the contributions and commented upon 
the suitability of the product which Mr D chose.
The investigator also noted that no execution only declaration had been signed.
So overall, the investigator was satisfied that Chase de Vere provided Mr D with 
financial advice.
It followed, therefore, that Chase de Vere had an obligation to give suitable advice  
and the investigator said that this would have been for Mr D to buy added years in 
the NHS pension scheme. This was based upon the investigators analysis of Mr Ds 
age at the time, his attitude to risk, his likely job prospects and potential future 
earnings increases.
The investigator also noted that a decision had been made by the business which 
had sold the original policy to compensate Mr D on the basis of an added years 
calculation.
He therefore recommended that Chase de Vere calculate whether compensation was 
due to Mr D in respect of the top up policy in the same way.
In response, Chase de Vere requested clarity around the investigators recommendation that 
the redress calculation be undertaken on the basis of Mr D buying added years. It noted that 
Mr D had joined the NHS pension scheme at the age of 24 and that, should he continue 
working to 64, he would have accrued the maximum entitlement of 40 years service. There 
would therefore have been no scope for added years and, even if it was to accept the 
premise that it had been an advised process, it considered that the in house AVC option 
would be the better comparator.
The investigator replied, saying that it was his understanding that Mr D could retire at age 
60, and therefore would have had scope to buy four added years within the NHS scheme. 
Chase de Vere then requested confirmation that the original advising business had offered 
to compensate Mr D on the basis of added years, with which the investigator duly complied.
Chase de Vere then further responded to the investigators findings, saying the following in 
summary:
It maintained that it wasnt an advised process, but rather a matter of acting upon Mr 
Ds instructions.
It acknowledged that there was no execution only declaration, but it also said that the 
event of some 22 years ago should be looked at in the context of the adviser making 
enquiries on Mr Ds instruction. Normally the premiums would have simply been 
topped up, but it was the providers requirement that a new policy be established.It was Mr D who prescribed the plan type  the FSAVC  and premium amount, 
rather than requesting a review of other options.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As with the investigator, Ive noted that in house options werent explored by Chase de Vere, 
and theres been no argument from Chase de Vere that this in fact happened. So my focus 
will also be on whether this was an advised process, and if so, what should have happened.
Having considered the available evidence, my view is that Chase de Vere did make a 
recommendation  and so had an obligation to consider alternatives to the FSAVC top up 
plan. Although I accept that the genesis of the process lay with Mr D and his wish to 
increase his pension contributions, Chase de Vere then established personal details relating 
to Mr Ds circumstances, objectives and his employment. 
Furthermore, once complications had been identified with the costs involved in starting a 
new FSAVC policy with a different provider, a recommendation was given to set up a new 
plan with the existing provider. This is supported by documentation from the time  a 
compelling example of which was a record, dated 1 April 1998, of a fact find having been 
completed on 25 March 1998, and under the section entitled Products recommended, the 
detail was set out of the FSAVC top up plan which Mr D then established.  
On balance, therefore, I dont think that this was a simple matter of acting on a clients 
instructions - my view is that this was an advisory process.
And once Chase de Vere had gathered information about Mr D, it should have readily 
identified that provision outside of the NHS pension scheme wasnt his only option  and that 
there were alternatives available to him within his employers scheme which were likely to 
have been more cost effective or beneficial.
This wasnt, after all, a straightforward matter of increasing contributions within an existing 
plan. This wasnt possible, and so Chase de Vere did research alternatives, leading to an 
ultimate recommendation. But it restricted this to the realm of private provision, outside of 
the main scheme.
For Mr Ds part, he was acting on the basis of what he already held  and to his knowledge 
had been the most suitable format of increasing his eventual pension provision. But Chase 
de Vere, as the professional of the two parties, would, or should, have known otherwise.
FIMBRA rules, which were adopted by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) in 1995, set 
out that that an adviser should know its client. This required a business to:
Not make a recommendation unless it believed, having carried out reasonable care 
in forming its belief, that no transaction in any other such investment (of which it 
ought reasonably to be aware) would be likely to secure the objectives of the 
consumer more advantageously, and
Take reasonable care to include in any recommendation to a person, other than a 
professional investor, sufficient information to provide that person with an adequate 
and reasonable basis for deciding whether to accept the recommendation.And then, in May 1996, the PIA issued Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which codified the 
procedures it expected a business such as Chase de Vere to follow in future sales. It 
reiterated that a business should establish what in-house alternatives to the FSAVC policy 
were available and discuss the specific differences between them when making their 
recommendation. It said this discussion should include:
The difference in charges and expenses between the FSAVC and AVC
The choice of investments
The availability of added years and the number of years that could be purchased
The degree of personal control and privacy
The age at which benefits could be taken
The degree of portability on changing jobs or becoming self-employed
So Chase de Vere ought to have made Mr D aware of the in house options, and evaluated 
whether these would have been more beneficial to Mr D. It didnt do this - so I need to then 
consider what would have been the suitable option for Mr D.
In doing so, Ive noted Chase de Veres comment relating to the investigators 
recommendation that a comparison should be undertaken between the benefits accrued 
under the FSAVC policy and those Mr D would have accrued through buying added years. 
But I think what the investigator has said about the possibility of Mr D retiring at age 60 is 
compelling. Chase de Vere has mooted a retirement age of 64, but as far as I can tell, its 
simply added the maximum number of years service to his age when he joined the scheme. 
Under the 1995 section of the NHS pension scheme, normal retirement age was 60.
So on the basis of a prospective shortfall of four years service, Mr D was a candidate for 
buying added years. If Im also to consider other aspects such as a reasonable prospect of 
him remaining in the same employment, with regular salary increments, and where 
affordability doesnt appear to have been an issue, I think the case is further strengthened. I 
also note that, following the investigators clarification as to why he thought added years was 
the right comparator, Chase de Vere hasnt commented on that aspect further, instead 
focussing on whether advice was given.  
So on the basis that Mr D could retire at age 60, I think the prospect of maximising his 
guaranteed scheme benefits through buying added years would have been the most 
appealing of the available options. And had the associated benefits of this course of action 
been explained to him by Chase de Vere, I think he would have opted to start buying added 
years at that point. 
Putting things right
My conclusion, for the reasons set out above, is that Mr D would have been better off buying 
added years as opposed to topping up his FSAVC contributions. And this should have been 
the option recommended by Chase de Vere. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should therefore undertake an 
added years redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most recent 
financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this. 
Any compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr D 
within 90 days of the date Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Chase de Vere 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr D this compensation.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Chase de Vere Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to undertake the above calculation and pay any redress 
accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman