DRN-2971475
The complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Ms B took out a PPI policy alongside a further advance on her mortgage in 1991. Ms B paid 
for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in 
case she was off work sick or unemployed for a significant period.
I sent Ms B and Halifax a provisional decision on 14 July 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this PPI policy to have been mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
This sale was three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. So 
I think its completely understandable that neither side still have the original documents from 
the sale. Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of such data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Meanwhile, Ms B doesnt remember buying the policy, 
and I also think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable 
and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Ms B into having PPI. 
And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was far too long ago 
for me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce evidence from the time to defend 
themselves now. So I dont think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled 
Ms B. I think its more likely they followed a relatively normal sales process, where they 
offered a choice and she chose PPI at the time  though I can certainly understand if she no 
longer recalls doing so after so long.
Ms B pointed out that she didnt buy PPI with her original mortgage. I understand she feels 
this is evidence that she wouldnt have chosen it when taking out her further advance, either. 
But while I understand where Ms B is coming from, its quite normal for people to change 
their mind several years down the line. And Ms Bs mortgage was taken out before these 
policies were commonly sold, so its likely she wasnt even offered PPI back then. So I dont 
think this shows that the 1991 policy was added without her knowing.
Ms B also explained that she went through great difficulties the following year and didnt 
claim on the PPI, which she felt evidenced she didnt know she had it. Again, I completely 
understand where shes coming from. Because of the time thats passed and the lack of full 
records, its difficult to say what happened there. For example, I dont have a claims history, 
so it may be that Ms B did try to claim and was turned down rightly or wrongly. Or it may be 
that in her circumstances she wasnt eligible to claim  she mentioned she was still holding 
down work, and the policy was more for situations where she was completely out of work in 
the long term. In any case, its not uncommon for people to not realise they can claim on a 
certain insurance policy, not least when under great stress. So again, I dont think this shows 
that the policy was added without Ms Bs consent, though I understand her point of view. 
Ms B may still be able to make a back-dated claim on her insurance, though. If shed like to 
do that, she should get back in touch with Lloyds in the first instance, and then if she needs 
us she may be able to ask for our services help with that as a separate case.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms B, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if they did recommend it  so to be as fair to Ms B as possible, Ill assume 
they did. That means Halifax had to check whether the policy was right for Ms B  and based 
on what Ive been told of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. It looks like Ms B was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations  for 
example, from what shes told us she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and 
was a full-time employee rather than e.g. self-employed. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
Ms Bs work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover. It also meant she could 
effectively protect any savings she had and use them for other things, instead of potentially 
needing to sacrifice one asset to save another. I understand Ms B felt stable in her job, but 
accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen  even in situations that feel 
stable at the time. And its worth bearing in mind that if Ms B fell sufficiently behind on her 
mortgage, she couldve lost her home. So the policy could have been useful for Ms B in 
protecting her home.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Ms B about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. But as I explained above, it looks like Ms B wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something 
went wrong. The policy cost relatively little and was competitively priced given how much it 
would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms B could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put her off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Ms B pointed out that many other PPI policies were mis-sold, and I appreciate why 
she mentioned this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So while 
some policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at each case on its individual merits, 
and Ive explained above why Ive not found this particular policy to have been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 August 2021. But neither Ms B nor Halifax sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman