DRN-3319075
The complaint
Ms R complains that Pockit Limited did not transfer her balance to her new card when her
old card expired and that they owe her money.
What happened
Ms R has held a Pockit account since 2017. Her card had expired so she tried to request a
new card, but she says Pockit didnt respond to her emails. When they did respond and
issued a new card, Ms R says that her balance on her new card showed as £0, but it
shouldve showed as £4,645 according to her statements. Ms R feels aggrieved and
frustrated with Pockits customer service. Ms R brought her complaint to our service.
Pockit emailed Ms R and apologised for the delay in responding to her. They said they had
now transferred her balance to the new card. Ms R said that Pockit had only transferred
£3,853.95 instead of £4,645. Pockit sent Ms R her statement and Ms R calculated from her
transactions that the balance should have been £4,318.98.
Pockit upheld Ms Rs complaint. They said that Ms R had contacted them on 11 June 2020
and again on 1 July 2020, to advise she wasnt able to access her account. On 17 August
2020, a Pockit agent confirmed that they had ordered her a replacement card, but Ms R let
them know on 12 October 2020, that she hadnt received the card. On 20 January 2021, an
agent requested evidence of her address, Ms R provided this and the system was updated
with her address and a new card was sent out to her. Pockit said due to the time it had taken
to resolve the matter for her they offered Ms R £100 compensation, however, Pockit
confirmed the correct balance had been transferred to Ms R.
Ms R did not accept the outcome of the complaint. She had calculated her transactions
again and she said that the amount they transferred her was £438.23 less than she
expected.
Our investigator said she thought Pockits compensation which was offered was not enough
for the poor service Ms R received and the delay in receiving her replacement card. She said
£200 should be paid to Ms R. But she could not agree with Ms R that an incorrect balance
had been transferred to her new card. Pockit accepted our investigators review of the
complaint and agreed to pay Ms R £200 to settle the complaint.
Ms R asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint as she said that Pockit should pay
the £200 which our investigator had recommended, plus the missing balance of £438.23.
She said that the information about the balance that Pockit had transferred was fake.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what both parties have said about the balance which was transferred to Ms
Rs new card. When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to
consider the evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the
balance of probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Having done so here, Im not persuaded that Pockit have made a mistake in transferring the
£3,853.95 and Ill explain why.
I know that Ms R strongly feels that Pockit have transferred £438.23 less than what they
should have done. So I asked Pockit for evidence of all of her transactions from when her
account opened in 2017. I wanted the transactions to show a running balance, so I could see
if there were any errors in how theyve calculated Ms Rs balance. But Ive found no
evidence of any errors in the running total balance.
The evidence which Pockit has provided (which I will ask our investigator to forward onto Ms
R), appears to match up with the transactions that Ms R has sent us on her statements
(although her statements dont show a running balance). I know that Ms R had concerns that
the information Pockit had sent us was fake, however, since the transactions appear to tally
with the information that Ms R provided us and I now have a record of all of the transactions
from her account opening, Im satisfied that the information Pockit sent us was genuine and
that they transferred the correct balance.
Ive then thought about the service Ms R received from Pockit regarding the replacement
card and transferring the balance. While I can understand Pockits reasons for not sending
out a replacement card automatically if there was a period of inactivity, Im persuaded that
they did not treat Ms R fairly by not responding to her requests in a timely manner.
Our investigator had said that the £100 that Pockit had offered Ms R for compensation was
not enough. I agree with our investigator here. Im satisfied that the £200 our investigator
suggested would be more reflective of the impact Pockits customer service had on Ms R.
I say this as Ms R had to wait weeks or sometimes months for a reply from Pockit, firstly
regarding a new card and then regarding the balance not being transferred over. This would
have been distressing for Ms R and she was inconvenienced by having to chase this up
more than once. So I intend to ask Pockit to pay Ms R £200 (if they have not already done
so), for the distress and inconvenience of the impact the customer service from Pockit had
on her.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Ms R said that although she wasnt persuaded over the missing balance of 
£438.23, according to her calculations, she would like to accept the £200 compensation and 
she would be happy to close down the complaint once she had received this. Pockit 
responded that they had no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Pockit to pay Ms R £200 for distress and 
inconvenience (if they hadnt already done so). Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the 
reasons given previously.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Pockit Limited should pay Ms R £200 (if they havent already done 
so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman