DRN-4242614
The complaint
A charity Ill call L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed its account in 
error, leading to the loss of sales.
L is represented by Ms M.
What happened
Barclays undertook a Know Your Customer (KYC) review of Ls account in 2022. When it 
completed the review, it closed Ls account and sent L a cheque for the account balance. Ms 
M complained, and Barclays reinstated the account, agreeing it had been closed in error. But 
Ms M said the charity had lost out on the sale of 60 items as a result of the closure. She said 
she wasnt able to advertise without confidence in Barclays, and that the items would have 
sold for a total of £3,000.
Barclays upheld Ls complaint and offered to pay £100 in recognition of the inconvenience it 
had caused L. But it said it wouldnt refund Ls claimed loss of profits, so Ms M brought Ls 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at Ls complaint and agreed Barclays should pay compensation. She 
felt Barclays offer of £100 for inconvenience was fair, but she said Barclays should pay L 
interest on the account balance for the period L was deprived of its funds (being 26 January 
2023 to 11 March 2023). And she didnt think Ms M had demonstrated L had suffered a loss 
of £3,000 as a result of Barclays actions. She noted L had an alternative account setup to 
receive payments for sales, so she wasnt persuaded L couldnt sell the items. And she felt L 
could have opened another account elsewhere.
Ms M didnt agree. She said she didnt feel comfortable selling the items with the ongoing 
uncertainty surrounding Ls account, and she was concerned about the audit trail for tax 
purposes given there was the prospect of sale proceeds not going to the charitys bank 
account. She didnt believe opening another account was a viable option because that would 
have necessitated changes to Ls website, which would have come at a considerable cost.
Because no agreement could be reached, the case came to me to issue a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts it caused confusion, and that L should be compensated, so the issue for 
me to address is the level of compensation. 
I asked Ms M to provide evidence to support her claim that L would have sold 60 items, to 
show whether L had made the sales since Barclays reopened Ls account, and to 
demonstrate any steps Ms M took to mitigate Ls losses.
Ms M said she can prove L ordered and received the 60 items in question, but couldnt 
demonstrate L would have sold all 60. She said the prospective purchasers were closed until 
October 2023, so no sales could be made before then. And that L wasnt able to mitigate its 
losses by holding alternative events, because the COVID pandemic had restricted Ls ability 
to do so.
I recognise that Barclays actions caused Ms M some confusion, and Im pleased to see it 
awarded compensation to recognise the trouble it caused L. And because Barclays accepted 
it closed Ls account in error, I agree L should be compensated for the period it was deprived 
of those funds (i.e. between 26 January 2023 and 11 March 2023). To that end, Im satisfied 
that interest at the rate of 8% represents fair compensation for that loss. 
However, Im sorry to say that I agree with what our investigator said with regard to Ls loss 
of profits claim. And I take the view that L could have mitigated its losses by continuing to 
sell the items, then transferring the proceeds to Ls bank account when the issue was sorted. 
While I understand and respect Ms Ms cautious approach, I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me that receiving funds into the holding account would have caused L any 
accounting problems, as the funds would have followed the same path regardless of 
Barclays actions. The only difference is that any sale funds would have sat in the initial 
receiving account for longer.
Further, while L has suggested all 60 items would have been sold, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that would have been the case. And of course L can still sell the 
items at a later date, which would mean it didnt suffer the loss it has claimed. 
Im grateful to Ms M for her time and submissions, and I hope she can be satisfied with the 
outcome, despite that I havent made the award she wanted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay 
L:
1. £100; and
2. Simple interest on Ls account balance of £4,536.12 at a rate of 8% from 26 January 
2023 to 11 March 2023.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman