DRN-4155909
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from AutoMoney Limited trading as 
AutoMoney Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
AML. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered around 56,232 
miles.
In June 2022 the dealership replaced the battery. In July 2022 the dealership carried out a 
software update. Both of these repairs were done at no cost to Mr M.
In October 2022 an engine oil and filter service were carried out.
In November 2022 Mr M took the car to a third-party garage because there was an oil leak. 
The job sheet states that the transfer and gearbox seals were replaced, and the oil was 
replenished. The job sheet also states that there was still a leak present and that a new 
gearbox was required.
Mr M complained to AML about the gearbox. AML arranged an independent inspection of 
the car, which took place in December 2022. 
The inspection report stated that there were issues with the gearbox performance and an oil 
leak. The inspector also stated that the car had been subject to a failed repair and that it 
should be returned to the garage who had carried out the repair.
In its final response, AML said that at the point when the repairs were carried out on the 
gearbox, neither the supplying dealer or AML had been notified that there was a fault, and 
the third-party repairs hadnt been authorised. AML said it wasnt responsible for the issues 
resulting from the failed repair.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Mr M has recently told this service that hes now had the car repaired. A job sheet for the 
repair says that the car had a seal kit gearbox output fitted.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt any evidence to show that 
there was a fault with the gearbox at the point of supply.
Mr M didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking int account things such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr M was second hand, so Id expect it to have a degree of wear and 
tear, and for it to require more repairs and maintenance than. say, a new car.
Ive considered all of the information and Ive thought about whether there was a fault with 
the car which made it of unsatisfactory quality.
Theres evidence to show that there was a fault with the car. This includes the third-party 
garage report which diagnosed an oil leak and the independent inspection report which 
found an oil leak from the transmission.
However, just because theres a fault doesnt mean that that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied.
An expert report can help to determine whether a car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. Ive reviewed the independent report in this case. It says that theres an oil leak 
and that the issue has been caused by a failed repair. Theres nothing in the independent 
report which suggests that there was a fault with the gearbox at the point of supply. Looking 
at the comments in the report, the reasons for the oil leak appears to be deterioration of the 
seals and/or gaskets. Im of the view that its more likely that this is a general wear and tear 
issue rather than an inherent defect.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt any evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. So I wont be asking AML to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman