DRN-4215608
The complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, has treated him unfairly in relation to a 
transaction on his credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr C used his Bank of Scotland Plc credit card (BOS for short) to make 
payment for international flights for a relative which were supplied by an airlines (the 
Airline) website. He says before he authorised the transaction he received an error 
message on the airline website. So he went to a different flight provider and bought 
essentially identical flights for the relative. He says he then realised hed received an email 
from the Airline including the tickets for the flights. This meant he then had two sets of flight 
tickets for the relative for the same time. So he contacted the Airline in order to cancel the 
flights with it and get a refund. But he says the Airline stopped talking to him when it realised 
he wasnt a passenger on the flight. So he complained to BOS.
BOS considered what happened. And asked Mr C for further information. Mr C couldnt 
provide the evidence further evidence as the Airline wouldnt talk to him because of what it 
said were data protection issues and he didnt have any evidence of the error message on 
the Airline website. So it didnt refund him. Mr C wasnt happy with BOS position, so he 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt BOS didnt have to do anymore. And Mr C remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C used his BOS credit card to pay for these international flights (this was flights only-not 
a package holiday). This meant that if certain criteria were met, BOS can have certain 
responsibilities to Mr C which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain circumstances, Section 75 
has the effect of allowing Mr C to hold BOS liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence BOS can be held 
responsible for a like claim as that which Mr C would have against the Airline.
Mr Cs BOS credit card is also part of a card scheme run by a separate company. And this 
scheme has rules which includes giving BOS a route for card transactions to be disputed 
with Merchants such as the Airline, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a 
right for consumers, and it is possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful 
without BOS having done anything wrong.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about BOS and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr C fairly. This decision isnt about the Airline, 
which isnt within this Services remit for complaints about Chargeback and S75. I hope this 
crucial distinction is clear to Mr C.
authorisation
Mr C says he didnt authorise the transaction as it didnt appear on his BOS Application on 
his phone for him to authorise. Im sorry to say that authorising the merchant to make a 
charge to his credit card doesnt happen when you agree to such a request on a banking 
app. You authorise the transaction with the merchant when you enter your card details and 
press the make payment, pay, place order or similar type button on the merchant website. 
I can see from the ticket confirmation that Mr C provided personal information for himself and 
his relative when making the booking. I can also see that he entered his card details. 
Bearing in mind what we know about this process and considering Mr Cs comments on the 
matter Im satisfied on balance he authorised this transaction for the Airline to book the ticket 
and take the money from Mr Cs BOS account.
The process to which Mr C references on his banking application is a post authorisation 
process which some banks have in place, and which operates based on the banks 
commercial and risk-based decision making. Such a request is in essence a post 
authorisation confirmation of the transaction or a post authorisation challenge to the 
transaction. It is not the authorisation by the card holder (here Mr C) for the merchant being 
able to request the money from the bank for the transaction authorised.
could BOS challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
I dont think BOS couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr C didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
BOS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is any longer a reasonable prospect of success.
BOS spoke to Mr C and explained its position and asked for evidence of the error message. 
Mr C, understandably, couldnt provide that. It also suggested Mr C got his relative to make a 
call to the Airline to get the refund. Mr C has explained his relative doesnt speak English 
and the phone line the relative could have used was outside the 24-hour period to get a full 
refund.
The test here is has BOS treated Mr C unfairly by not initiating a chargeback. I think it 
treated Mr C fairly with regard to chargeback as it didnt have any persuasive evidence that 
the Merchant had done something wrong. After all it was Mr C who booked two sets of 
tickets. And Mr C couldnt get further supporting evidence because the Airline wouldnt 
speak to him because he wasnt the named traveller. Even if BOS had raised a chargeback I 
dont think it would have been successful. I say this because theres no evidence the 
Merchant did anything wrong. Mr C accepts he completed the information required to make 
the booking. And Ive already described that Im satisfied on balance the transaction was 
authorised. And Ive seen no evidence of the Airline cancelling the ticket within the 24-hour 
period and failing to refund Mr C for such a cancellation. I say this because Mr C explains 
that the Airline wouldnt talk to him and his relative couldnt make contact within that timeline.
So there is no persuasive reason for a chargeback to be successful to my mind. And thus 
BOS hasnt treated him unfairly by not refunding the transaction.
Section 75There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Airline.
For BOS to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
Airline either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr C which 
was untrue and that led to loss.
The investigator explained that he didnt think the required relationship was in place for a 
Section 75 claim. Im not necessarily persuaded by this, but I dont think it makes a 
difference here.
It is clear the tickets Mr C booked were issued to him. And there is no persuasive evidence 
that the Airline were provided with a cancellation request by the passenger (not Mr C) within 
the cancellation time limit. And its clear that the flights took place. So there is no persuasive 
evidence of a breach of contract or a misrepresentation here which would mean that BOS 
should refund Mr C. 
It is clear that the Airline has to follow data protection rules which are agreed in its terms and 
conditions. So I appreciate that Mr C found himself, and indeed his relative, found 
themselves in a position where they couldnt cancel in the specified timeframe. But that is 
not the fault of BOS or the Airline here. And its clear that the Airline hasnt breached the 
contract or misrepresented the matter to Mr C. So Im not persuaded BOS should refund Mr 
C for his loss.
For completeness I shall now turn to some of Mr Cs arguments. He says the calls he had 
with the Airline are paramount. I dont agree. I dont dispute he tried to cancel the flights, but 
he was never able to do so as he wasnt a passenger. Which is in line with the terms and 
policies of the Airline.
Mr C points to what BOS said in its letters and calls and it could have explained things 
better. However for me to uphold this complaint so that Mr C gets his money back I need to 
persuaded that its approach to chargeback, authorisation or Section 75 are wrong or unfair. 
And for the reasons given already Im not persuaded thats the case. So I dont think Mr Cs 
complaint should succeed.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Mr C wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Cs avenues for recouping the cost of the flights will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that BOS has done anything wrong in dealing with the issues 
arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund him. And after all this decision is about 
BOS did or didnt do and not about the Airline.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr C has said, Im not persuaded 
BOS has treated Mr C unfairly. So unfortunately for Mr C his complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc, 
trading as Halifax. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-ThomasOmbudsman