DRN-3505251
The complaint
Ms B complains that Nationwide Building Society gave her wrong information which led to
them registering adverse information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Ms B took out a personal loan with Nationwide. In January 2018 she contacted them to ask
what would happen to her repayments if she became pregnant, as she expressed the
difficulty she would have making the payments if she wasnt working and was receiving
maternity pay. Ms B says the call handler told her she could stop the loan payments and pay
the interest only, which would have no effect on her credit file.
In October 2018, Ms B contacted Nationwide again, as this was a month prior to her going
on maternity leave, so she wanted to discuss the repayments. On this call, Ms B says the
call handler informed her that she had been given incorrect information in the January call
and that Ms B would need to make her full repayments or this would be reflected on her
credit file.
Ms B made a complaint to Nationwide who offered her £50 for the incorrect information and
then she brought her complaint to our service in late 2018. Our investigator said that the
credit agreement showed that if there was any missed or under paid repayments then this
would be reported to the CRAs. Our investigator concluded that the £50 Nationwide offered
Ms B was reasonable for the misinformation they gave her.
Ms B says she paid the contractual monthly repayment while she still had her full wage, until
she contacted Nationwide again to discuss her payments as her maternity payments were
lower than she anticipated. Nationwide completed an affordability assessment with Ms B
which showed she had no affordability, so Nationwide agreed a payment of £0 in April 2019,
until they reviewed this. They set up another £0 monthly repayment in July 2019 and a third
one in August 2019.
Ms B says she spoke to a call handler who told her that she needed to start making
payments to the account or it would be reported as being defaulted to the CRAs. She says
the call handler said they might be able to offer her a new loan agreement, to consolidate the
existing loan, which would result in lower monthly repayments, however, Ms B was then told
she couldnt consolidate the loan due to her lack of affordability. Ms B says she took out
another loan with a third party provider and paid the Nationwide loan off to prevent a default
being registered.
When Ms B was starting to make arrangements to move to a new property, her mortgage
application was declined. Her mortgage adviser suggested she get a copy of her credit file,
which Ms B did. The credit file showed adverse data from the Nationwide loan.
Ms B made a complaint to Nationwide. Ms B says that they did not register her complaint
properly and raised issues about how they handled her complaint. Ms B also raised a
Subject Access Request (SAR) with Nationwide but she says she experienced delays with
this also.
Nationwide partially upheld Ms Bs complaint. They said they had agreed to call Ms B back
and apologised for not doing so. They also apologised for Ms B not getting a copy of the
SAR by post, as they said they had sent her an email with the SAR document. They
acknowledged Ms B said she was unable to open this, so they said if she was still having
problems opening this then she should give them a call (and provided Ms B a direct
telephone number) and they could assist her with this.
Nationwide said a zero payment plan is arrears bearing and therefore naturally, arrears will
accrue. Late payments will be reported to the CRAs automatically once the arrears exceed
one contractual payment. They said they were obliged to report this information to CRAs.
They added that as there was no affordability evidenced to recommence payments to the
loan, their call handlers were obliged to explain the possibility of her loan being defaulted, as
this is an automated process once the arrears reach a certain level with no resolution.
Nationwide said they made no errors in how they applied the zero payment plans but they
said in view of not ringing her back when they said they would and the incorrect information
they provided about the SAR then they offered her £50 compensation.
Ms B brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator felt the £50 offer Nationwide
made was fair. As regards to the impact on Ms Bs credit file with the adverse payments
though, our investigator said on the phone call Ms B had with Nationwide in January 2019,
Ms B said she knew she had agreed to the loan terms and was aware how it could affect her
credit rating by then. The operator also confirmed to Ms B if she had reduced payments it
would affect her credit rating.
Ms B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she repeatedly confirmed
the main issue to be that Nationwide put her in the position shes in now because of the
wrong information that was provided to her in 2018. This is affecting her getting a mortgage.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start off by saying Ive noted the level of impact that the calls in 2018 had on Ms B. Shes
made it very clear that she believes the wrong information which was given to her led to the
adverse information showing on her credit file. Ive read and listened to everything shes said
about this. But I must be clear to Ms B that Im unable to take this into consideration even
though I know her strength of feeling on this matter. I say this as her complaint about the
calls in 2018 has previously been brought to this service in 2018, and as such, Im unable to
consider this part of her complaint, even though this is the crux of her complaint.
I must also explain to Ms B that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity
and as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how Nationwide have investigated
her complaint, such as registering the complaint and the delays, dont come under my
powers to consider.
Ive listened to the call Ms B had with Nationwide in January 2019. The call handler does
inform Ms B that if her repayment is reduced, then it would show on her credit file, which Ms
B acknowledges. She also acknowledges that her complaint has been closed down by our
service.
Ms B explains to the call handler that this could affect her getting a mortgage if she wantedto move in two years time. But she says this is the chance were going to have to take
unfortunately, I cant afford the payments when Im off. She then explains she will be going
to half pay. The call handler then clearly explains that any reduction in her repayments will
show on her credit file as arrears.
So Im satisfied that Ms B was fully informed here of the implications this would have on her
credit file. Ive also asked Nationwide for a copy of all of the arrears letters they sent to Ms B.
Nationwide sent me the arrears letters that Ms B had been sent between January 2018 
October 2019.
While I cant go into the detail of the events from 2018 as previously discussed, all of the
letters have a section titled why its important to take action. Within this section, there is the
following bullet point:
We inform Credit Reference Agencies when accounts are in arrears. This could
affect your credit rating and might make it more difficult for you to obtain credit in the
future.
So Im satisfied that Ms B shouldve been aware that the implications of making no payments
or lower payments would be reported to CRAs. I sympathise with Ms B not having the
affordability to make the contractual monthly payment, however, Nationwide have a
regulatory responsibility to report accurate information to the CRAs. So by reporting factual
payment history to the CRAs I cant say that Nationwide have made an error here, even if
this is affecting Ms B getting a mortgage.
Ive then considered what Ms B has said about the SAR. Nationwide set an expectation that
the SAR would be posted to her, but they emailed this to her. Im satisfied that Ms B
received the email as shes said she was having trouble opening the SAR. I can see in the
final response that Nationwide sent Ms B a telephone number if shes still unable to access
the document, so if Ms B still cant open the document then she should contact Nationwide
as set out in their final response for assistance. I did ask Nationwide if they would be able to
send her this in the post also, but they explained they were unable to do so, as it contained a
large number of call recordings and it wouldnt be appropriate to post this.
Nationwide also told Ms B that she would get a call back and she didnt receive a call back. I
imagine this wouldve been frustrating for Ms B. So as Nationwide gave Ms B wrong
information about the SAR and didnt call her back when they said they would do so, I think
it's only fair that Nationwide should pay Ms B compensation for the impact this would have
had on her.
I do think that £50 is fair compensation for this. I say this as Ms B did receive the SAR,
although it was not in a format she was told it would be sent. But the expectation is that she
would have received it by post. She would also be frustrated when she didnt get a call back
as promised. So Im persuaded that £50 would recognise the impact of these two issues. I
say this as it would be broadly in line with what I would have awarded Ms B if Nationwide
had not offered her this compensation. So it follows that I intend to ask Nationwide to pay Ms
B £50 for distress and inconvenience.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Nationwide accepted the provisional decision. Ms B did not accept the provisional 
decision. She made a number of points. In summary she said she was not satisfied with a 
£50 goodwill gesture, when that was originally offered in her 2018 complaint for the mistake 
they made and she deserves more than this. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ms B has said about the goodwill gesture and her 2018 complaint. But 
as I explained to Ms B in my provisional decision, her complaint about the calls in 2018 has 
previously been brought to this service in 2018, and as such, Im unable to consider this part 
of her complaint, even though this is the crux of her complaint.
But Im persuaded the £50 for her more recent issues is fair and is separate to the £50 
offered in 2018. As I said in my provisional decision I say this as Ms B did receive the SAR, 
although it was not in a format she was told it would be sent. But the expectation is that she 
would have received it by post. She would also be frustrated when she didnt get a call back 
as promised. So Im persuaded that £50 would recognise the impact of these two issues. 
As I also explained in my provisional decision I must also explain to Ms B that complaint 
handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as such, the issues shes raised that 
relate directly to how Nationwide have investigated her complaint, such as registering the 
complaint and the delays, dont come under my powers to consider. So I would be unable to 
award her with compensation for any issues shes faced relating to how Nationwide handled 
her complaint.
In summary, Ms Bs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Ms B will be disappointed that I 
havent awarded additional compensation, but I hope she understand my reasons.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £50 to Ms B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman