DRN-2663813
The complaint
Mr H has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to handle his claim properly
under his travel policy when he and his family were forced to leave a cruise because his son
developed chickenpox.
 What happened
Mr H, his wife and two sons were on a cruise in Europe for seven days in July 2019. Sadly,
his son developed chickenpox around three days into the cruise and since it was contagious,
they had to leave the ship and were stranded in a Mediterranean port with his son quite ill
with chickenpox and all that that entails.
Mr H and his elder son both had travel policies through their bank accounts underwritten by
UKI, which UKI subsequently agreed to deal with as one claim. Mr H contacted UKI once he
knew they had to depart the cruise ship and spoke to its medical assistance team, given his
predicament. Given it was high season at a port on the Mediterranean coast, finding
accommodation was very difficult. He said he was told to submit all receipts and bills later.
He said he was given no help in finding suitable accommodation and obviously he hadnt
budgeted that he would need to find such accommodation.
Having found some hotel accommodation, he was told cover would only extend to one
person staying with his son, so Mr H and his elder son flew back to the UK. They funded that
themselves on top of the hotel costs, leaving Mrs H and their younger son with chickenpox
behind until he was well enough and deemed fit to fly home.
Back in the UK, Mr H and his son dealt with UKI and he said there was no designated claims
handler which made things far more difficult. UKI also only wanted to deal with everything
over the phone but as Mr H is profoundly deaf this also made things more than difficult.
Eventually 10 days later, Mr Hs son was deemed fit to fly home, so Mrs H and his son flew
home to the UK with Mr H initially funding this cost too.
Then there were problems dealing with his claim. UKI couldnt find all the receipts and bills
Mr H said he had carefully put together, it wouldnt obtain them from other team members to
whom Mr H was initially told to send them, necessitating Mr H having to submit them all
again.
UKI paid Mr Hs claim in September 2019 however it missed off certain items, used different
exchange rates and didnt reimburse any claims for the food and drink required once they
had left the cruise ship. Mr H said UKI didnt tell them there was no cover for food and drink
until the ninth day after they left the cruise ship either.
UKI maintained as this was a curtailment claim, no food and drink costs were covered.
However, UKI agreed its service had been poor and offered £350 compensation. Mr H said
in order to progress the claim, he was forced into making several complaints throughout. UKI
dealt with each of these separately which Mr H said made things even more confusing.
However, on these other sub-complaints UKI also offered a further £100 for an adviser being
rude to his elder son and a further £20 compensation for delays. Making the total
compensation offered of £470. It also offered fours days worth of food and drinks (excluding
alcohol) in the sum of £348.54 by March 2020 but didnt communicate this effectively to Mr H
at the time.
Mr H didnt consider this was adequate, as he felt all the food and drink consumption ought
to have been covered and he remained very dissatisfied with his claims experience. So, he
brought his complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view UKI should pay a further £50 compensation. But he didnt
think the food and drink costs should be covered in its entirety. As Mr H was on an all-
inclusive cruise he thought it was right UKI should cover the remaining four days which he
would have had on the cruise in food and drinks costs which UKI had already appeared to
have agreed but hadnt communicated this to Mr H. And given this delay, the investigator
thought a further £50 compensation was required.
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. UKI initially didnt
agree to the extra compensation but failed to explain why when asked for further
clarification.
 I issued a provisional decision on 11 February and I said the following: 
I dont think it was technically correct that the entirety of Mr Hs claim was dealt with 
under the curtailment section of his policy. This is because what caused the claim 
was the medical condition of his younger son, namely contracting chickenpox. This 
meant under the rules of his cruise ship Mr H and his family had to leave the ship, 
due as I understand it, to the sole fact that chickenpox is contagious, (rather than a 
serious or life-threatening illness to Mr Hs son) consequently requiring UKIs help 
under Mr Hs travel policy.
Mr Hs policys defines curtailment as cutting short your journey after its 
commencement to return to your home address or business address. And in the 
curtailment part of the policy it says the following:
What you are covered for
1. Curtailment due to early return
We will reimburse up to £5,930 per insured person, for
a) Unused travel and accommodation expenses, and
b) Additional travel expenses needed to return you to the UK (repatriation) 
which have been authorised by the assistance service which you cannot 
recover from any other source following curtailment of a Journey, due to:
1. Death or serious injury or illness to:
a) You
b) A travelling companion
However, for Mrs H and their younger son this didnt happen, as they had to stay 
away from home for a further 10 days before their younger son was deemed fit to fly 
home due to his medical condition. His medical condition also wasnt serious as he 
didnt require medical attention (except for fitness to fly assessments) and he wasnt 
required to be hospitalised. It was only Mr H and his older son who travelled home a 
couple of days after leaving the cruise ship. And that was only because UKI said only 
one person would be covered to stay with his younger son. That aspect is also only 
provided for under the medical cover section of the policy as it says the following:
What you are covered for
1. Emergency medical expenses abroadWe will pay up to £10,000,000 per insured person towards emergency 
medical, surgical or hospital treatment which is required whilst you are on a 
journey (dental limit £500 per insured person for relief of immediate pain 
only).
We will also provide cover for:
1. Additional travel expenses needed to return you to the UK (repatriation) on 
the advice of our medical adviser,
2. Extra accommodation if the length of your journey is extended due to your 
stay in hospital, [my emphasis],
3. Up to £2500 per insured person towards the cost of your funeral or 
cremation in the country in which death occurs,
4. Up to £2,000 per insured person towards the cost of a friend or relative, 
resident in the UK to be brought to, remain with or escort you back to the UK 
on advice of our medical adviser,
5. The cost of returning your remains to the UK,
6. Treatment or services obtained at a health spa, convalescent or nursing 
home or
any rehabilitation centre where this is medically necessary and cannot wait 
until your return to the UK,
7. Taxi expenses up to £23 per day in total which are medically necessary;
a) to transport you to a medical facility for treatment:
b) for a friend or relative to visit you in a medical facility whilst you are 
receiving treatment.
Under the heading in this section entitled what you are not covered for at number 17 
it says the following:
For the cost of any phone calls, other than necessary calls, other than 
necessary calls to our assistance, and any costs relating to food and drink, 
other than for claims under 3. Emergency expenses whilst you are in the UK 
above.
And further in the definitions section Extra accommodation is defined as any hotel 
room, apartment of villa. It doesnt include items such as food, drink, telephone calls 
(except to our Assistance Service), newspapers and taxis.
So, I consider overall this claim should have been dealt with under the medical 
emergency section of this policy, rather than any limitations of the curtailment section 
being used to Mr Hs disadvantage. The claim arose solely out his sons illness 
namely chickenpox. It forced them all off the cruise ship and it forced Mrs H and their 
ill son to remain abroad waiting for him to be fit to fly home to the UK. The reason 
their son wasnt fit to fly was the same reason as the one requiring them to leave the 
cruise ship namely the contagion issue of chickenpox, which is of course a viral 
illness. Thats a legitimate medical claim notwithstanding Mr Hs son didnt require 
hospital treatment. This is because just as he wasnt allowed to stay on a cruise ship, 
he also wasnt able to get on a commercial flight. So, the same illness which 
disallowed their son from remaining on the cruise ship also disallowed him being able 
to travel home any earlier. Further under a claim for medical emergency, UKIs 
assistance team should have assisted Mr H in finding accommodation and indeed 
funding it as required along with funding up front everyones return flights to the
UK.
Therefore, under the cover of the policy, it was right Mr H and his elder son flew 
home earlier and it was right that Mrs H and their ill son remained until he was fit to fly home. And its right that UKI eventually paid all of that part of their claim, although 
I consider it should have been sourced and funded by UKI from the outset. What 
wasnt right was the sheer confusion and lack of clarity from UKIs medical 
assistance team to Mr H throughout this time, which I shall deal with later to include 
that no feasible communication access was given to Mr H, given he is deaf.
However, its clear this policy doesnt provide cover for food and drink. There is also 
no specific cruise cover in this policy, which often provides cover for food and drink. 
This isnt unusual in travel policies, despite Mr Hs views to the contrary. As Ive 
detailed above, UKI has detailed it in the policy to include the definitions section. I 
also consider thats adequate notification of these limits of the cover available too. 
The reason for this usual type of exclusion in many travel policies is that wherever 
one is, one obviously must have the means to have food and drink and therefore its 
not covered. I dont consider thats generically unreasonable or unfair. 
However, Mr H and his family were on an all-inclusive cruise which meant their food 
and drink for the duration of the cruise was already paid for by the cost of their cruise. 
As they had to leave the cruise after three days, there was four days remaining of 
already paid for food and drink. So, considering they were then presently 
abandoned abroad, now having to fund all food and drink, its reasonable UKI has 
now paid this in the sum of £348.54. However, I consider it should now add interest 
from the date of their departure from the cruise to the date of UKIs reimbursement. 
And it should have coherently advised him of this at the start in his initial notification 
of his predicament. 
Mr H has referred to different travel policies available with credit cards which do 
permit cover for food and drink. But I cant consider these, I can only consider this 
policy. And given its provided with a credit card, in effect Mr H chose it when he 
chose his credit card. As Ive found above that the limitations as food and drink were 
coherently set out in the policy terms, and that its not an unusual limitation, the fact 
that other policies might decide to cover this isnt relevant to this complaint. Further 
insurers are at liberty to decide what they want to insure and what they dont as they 
are entitled to make their own commercial decisions as regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
I think its significant that throughout all of this both UKI and its assistance team was 
fully aware Mr H was profoundly deaf. All such travel claims, like the circumstances 
of this one, cause distress, often initial very stressed confusion and obviously gross 
inconvenience. And obviously too, UKI didnt cause Mr Hs claim. But all travel 
insurers are fully aware their policyholders in such circumstances of initiating a claim, 
are deeply stressed and worried. To insist Mr H could only communicate with UKI 
and its assistance team by telephone given his hearing issues, which he told them 
about and to fail to be able to provide any other method of communication at that 
time wasnt at all fair or reasonable in my view. And further I consider it was simply 
wholly inappropriate and contrary to all disability legislation.
It grossly and unreasonably increased Mr Hs distress and that of his family, made all
communications far more difficult and inaccessible (which I consider were inadequate 
in any event and which I will deal with further below). I dont consider the 
compensation already offered or discussed is at all adequate for this. Being 
profoundly deaf isnt an unusual disability and virtually everywhere has systems in 
place to be able to communicate perfectly well with profoundly deaf people. Whilst 
UKI acknowledged they didnt deal with this well, its file also showed none of its 
operatives had any other facilities available to them to deal with Mr H any other way than by phone. Thats unacceptable. Its also grossly unsavoury to put a person such 
Mr H in a situation in making a legitimate claim to feel so disadvantaged due to
his profound deafness. Therefore, whilst such unnecessary indignities, bordering on 
clear disability discrimination can barely have a financial value, I consider UKI should 
pay Mr H a further £750 compensation for this. Its not my role to punish or fine a 
business for such transgressions but I can see clearly from Mr Hs communications 
and subsequent correspondence with UKI, and with us, that this failure by UKI was 
particularly unnecessarily distressing for Mr H and his family. And it is for that level of 
distress that Im awarding this level of compensation.
Mr H has clearly detailed to both us and UKI its other failings in dealing with his 
claim, so I wont repeat them all here. However, assistance should have been given 
from the outset to find reasonable accommodation for all of them once they were 
forced off the cruise ship, by the assistance team with all costs funded and managed 
by UKI. That didnt occur. 
Clear and coherent explanations from the outset as to the fact food and drink wasnt 
covered (rather than nine days later) would have been useful and helped manage Mr 
Hs expectations more coherently. Helping and funding Mr H and his elder son to get 
appropriate flights home should have occurred. Checking in with Mrs H and 
monitoring and helping to organise doctors help in assessing her sons fitness to fly 
home should have occurred along with organising their flights home. Instead from I 
understand Mr H had to fund all this himself and was simply expected to claim it back 
when he got home and when Mrs H and their son got home, with no guarantee that 
any of the decisions he made at the time (without any assistance from UKI) would be 
fully refunded. Thats unreasonable.
This claim was a medical emergency claim due to the contagion issue of chickenpox 
and I dont consider it at all reasonable that Mr H was expected to fund the costs of 
all the consequences of this medical emergency, when he dutifully contacted UKIs 
assistance team from the outset. Consequently, if Mr H and/or his elder son has 
incurred any credit card interest charges on these sums he funded prior to UKIs 
payment of this part of his claim, UKI should now refund that interest once calculated. 
Adding 8% simple interest from date Mr H was charged such interest to the date of 
its payment of these elements of Mr Hs claim.
Further when Mr H got back to the UK and continued to ask UKI to assist his wife 
and son, it didnt. And even she and their son got back to the UKI, UKI still made 
things difficult, it could access his documents and receipts, which he sent to the 
assistance team, it made him send them all again. Mr H was forced to complain 
however instead of resolving the varying complaints, UKI merely investigated itself as 
to whether it did anything wrong. This ensured Mr Hs file had three final response 
letters on varying aspects of his one medical emergency claim. It confused matters 
not just for Mr H but for everyone else trying to get an understanding all the issues. I 
do appreciate UKI has a duty to investigate complaints but from reading its file it had 
little regard to attempting to simply deal adequately with Mr Hs claim and instead 
rushed to set up more complaints to investigate instead. Therefore, I dont
consider its initial offer of £350 to be adequate compensation for this. I consider that 
should be raised to £500. I also consider the later compensation payments of £100 
and £20 plus the further £50 suggested by the investigator should stand. These were 
payments for delays by UKI in the complaint process and for being rude to Mr Hs 
son initially and should be considered separately.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. And he again reiterated how very stressful he found 
the whole of experience of making his claim to UKI most especially the lack of assistance from UKI when they had to leave the cruise ship with their sick son. He also confirmed UKI 
had paid him the extra accommodation costs prior to the complaint coming to us.
UKI responded at some length. It didnt dispute the raising of the compensation from £350 to 
£500 nor it seems the inclusion of the extra £50 as suggested by the investigator but it didnt 
see that it had offered this. It was concerned about the issues I raised about Mr Hs 
deafness. It said Mr H did mention he was hard of hearing but then it said Mr H wanted to 
take over calls it was having with Mrs H. It was of the view I should listen to each and every 
call if I was to consider the implications of the Disability Discrimination Act. It didnt agree Mr 
H was profoundly deaf because it didnt stop him using the telephone. It also didnt think it 
had to cover Mr Hs costs for emergency accommodation because this wasnt a medical 
emergency claim. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, UKI has already paid Mr Hs extra accommodation costs as part of his claim and 
before Mr H brought his complaint to us. Which is why such costs werent included in my 
provisional decision, bar any credit card interest Mr H and his elder son might had to pay in 
funding these costs themselves at the time. So, I am at a loss why it now said that wasnt 
covered, when clearly it was, as it has already paid those costs to Mr H. For the avoidance 
of any doubt I agree those costs should have been paid to Mr H as part of his claim under 
this travel policy. I am however awarding interest on the food and drink costs, which are 
separate to the extra accommodation costs.
 
As it had already paid those costs, in the circumstances of this particular complaint, its now 
right Mr Hs claim is considered under the medical emergency section as it was a medical 
condition which forced Mr H and his family to leave the cruise ship and it was a medical 
condition which forced Mrs H and their ill son to have to stay abroad for 10 days until their ill 
son was deemed fit to fly and more significantly permitted to board a commercial flight back 
to the UK. And in any event UKI has in effect already agreed this, as it has already refunded 
those extra accommodation costs to Mr H. 
As for Mr Hs deafness for the avoidance of any doubt we asked him about this following 
UKIs response to the provisional decision. He said the following: 
Regrettably my hearing loss is classified as profoundly deaf. I have extremely limited 
hearing in only one ear and struggle with this disability on a daily basis.
In UKIs own file this is also noted as follows on 15 October 2019 as follows: 
There are notes on the file to suggest the customer is hard of hearing. There are no 
notes to reflect we have tried to work with this customer.
Rang [name of colleague] in claims -14.20 -14/10/19. I asked what sort of things we 
can do in these circumstances. [Name of colleague] advised we do not have a 
central mailbox as such, however we could have used the portal in order to 
communicate with the customer. This would have allowed us to do everything in 
writing. Doing it this way could slow the claim down but nevertheless, we should be 
trying to work with our customers.
Outcome: Based on the above I have upheld this concern. There are no notes on the 
file to suggest we have tried to work in a different way with this customer and after 
speaking with claims, there was other means we could have used, I don't believe this has been done as discrimination as there are no notes to reflect we have tried to 
make this harder for the customer, it would appear there has just been a lack of 
judgement on our part to try and work alongside a noted vulnerability.
Therefore, as UKI has already acknowledged its own failings in this regard consequently I 
see no reason now for me to listen to all the calls. Its always been clear on reading UKIs 
own file to includes the notes on these calls (leaving aside what Mr H has said on the matter) 
that Mr H had a significant hearing disability and UKI itself admitted it knew this prior to the 
matter coming to this service.  So, I remain of the view however that UKIs admitted failings 
in this regard warrants the compensation I have suggested. I consider the admitted lack of 
judgement along with the noted vulnerability is more than sufficient reasoning to award the 
compensation Ive suggested. 
I also dont consider its at all reasonable for UKI to say in its response to my provisional 
decision that Mr H cant be profoundly deaf because he talked on a phone. Throughout its 
own file and further in dealing with his complaint, it previously acknowledged Mr H had a 
hearing disability in any event and its not for UKI to pass such derogatory judgement as it 
now has, on its unsubstantiated view of the level of its severity. 
As regards to the fact that the investigator suggested a further £50 compensation for delay 
issues means of course that UKI initially didnt offer it, hence the investigator recommended 
it.
My final decision
 So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr H £750 compensation for its failure to accommodate his profound deafness 
and to provide adequate and standard other methods for him to communicate with it 
and its assistance team.
Pay Mr H a total of £500 compensation inclusive of its £350 already paid for its 
failures in dealing with his claim.
Pay Mr H the additional sums of £100, £20 and £50 for its rudeness to his son and 
other delay failures as outlined above, if it hasnt already done so.
Pay Mr H the sum of £348.54 for the food and drink element of the remaining four 
days of the cruise, if it already hasnt done so. It appears it has paid this sum. In any 
event it needs to add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of their departure 
from the cruise to date of its payment of the initial sum to Mr H. If income tax is to be 
deducted from this interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr H 
for HMRC purposes.
Refund Mr H and/or his elder son any credit card interest they may have been 
charged for funding hotel costs plus airline flights from the date such interest 
charges were imposed to date UKI paid these elements of Mr Hs claim. Adding 8% 
percentage interest from the date the credit card interest was imposed to the date 
UKI refunded these costs. If income tax is to be deducted from this interest, 
appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr H for HMRC purposes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman