DRN-4036075
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains about the way that Assetz SME Capital Limited 
administered its loan application, and didnt give a valid reason for the loan being declined.
What happened
R had a secured loan with a different financial business. And it wanted to refinance this 
through Assetz. The director says that despite there being a decision in principle in March 
2022 there were delays. And then additional requirements made which could have been 
identified earlier. The change in the money markets led to higher interest rates and there 
was then a decision made that the loan wouldnt be offered.
Assetz said it hadnt made a mistake. It provided a timeline of what happened as part of its 
final response letter. In that it referred to a number of points that it says caused delays. 
These included an incomplete application form from R, a request by R for a delay in the 
valuation, a delay in receiving an undertaking for legal costs, and a request from Rs solicitor 
in August 2022 for it to accept a no search indemnity. Assetz said it wouldnt accept this and 
then that there were delays in receiving the searches. By that time market interest rates had 
gone up and the proposed loan was repriced. Assetz said that when the loan was 
considered again on these terms your loan was not eligible due to your current lender 
appointing receivers. Assetz said that the amount charged had been used to pay for the 
valuation and its legal services.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that a decision in 
principle relied on all the documentation being provided and could be withdrawn. And that 
there was no obligation to provide finance. The decision in principle wasnt withdrawn until 
six months after it was issued. Market factors had by then changed. And R was responsible 
for the fees involved with the application.
R didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. And it also asked its legal 
representative to make comments on its behalf. The director of R was unhappy that the 
terms kept changing and for example that late on R was asked for an updated Fire Risk 
Assessment. This all meant that market conditions had changed. And a bridging loan had to 
be obtained at a much higher rate of interest. This has had severe financial implications for 
R and the director.
The representative said that R had been deliberately misled as to what it could reasonably 
expect. The terms of the decision in principle didnt explain why Assetz had waited until the 
interest rates had gone up before withdrawing the loan and gave no reason for this. It said 
that information was requested at the last minute including a change to the undertaking. 
Assetz refused to accept an indemnity for the searches and knew about potential delays. 
There may have been a reason to increase the interest rate but not to do more than that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This loan application was important for R as it was to refinance an existing loan. Receivers 
were appointed in relation to that loan at the end of August 2022. I appreciate that this was 
connected to the need to refinance but was a material change in circumstances in my view 
and one which was referred to by Assetz in its final response.
This complaint is about Assetz and not its third-party solicitors. However, I can look at the 
particular decisions it made and whether this led to delays in the process. And it wont be fair 
only to look at what happened in the weeks immediately before withdrawal of the loan. R 
says it expected things to be addressed in about six weeks.
There clearly had been an initial assessment to get to the point of issuing the decision in 
principle. But it was no more that a decision in principle with no guarantee and was stated to 
be subject to full due diligence, credit approval, legal documentation and the ultimate 
approval of our institutional funding partners  I dont agree that when it was issued Assetz 
misled R, and I understand it had its own professional advice about the loan at that time.
I take into account whats been set out above about the timeline. I note the valuation after it 
was requested was delivered in a reasonable time. And the significant difference in value to 
what had been expected both with and without a 180-day restriction on the time for sale was 
reviewed in my view in a timely way. It was a matter for Assetz to decide if it would accept 
indemnities for searches and to rely on its own lawyers about what was needed. And nothing 
had been done to arrange these searches for R based on its timeline by 11 August 2022. I 
appreciate that this led to further queries but again these could potentially have been 
resolved earlier had the searches been provided earlier.
Im not persuaded that inaction on the part of Assetz was the reason why this loan didnt 
proceed. Significant changes to money marker interest rates and to the economic outlook 
were in my view highly relevant to a loan application. And Im unclear when R told Assetz 
that receivers had been appointed but I think thats relevant too. The point is that these 
events happened up to six months after the decision in principle. Even though the loan didnt 
proceed R agreed to be responsible for the related costs, and which included significant 
third-party expenses.
I can appreciate the impact for R and the director of whats happened and why he wants to 
review what Assetz did. But for the reasons Ive given I dont find that Assetz made a 
mistake or acted unreasonably. So, I wont be requiring it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman