DRN-4049054
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) handled a claim 
and valued his car under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had a motor insurance policy with Skyfire covering his car.
In October 2022 Mr D was involved in an incident and his car was badly damaged. It was 
recovered by the police and placed in storage. Mr D called Skyfire and made a claim.
About two weeks later, Mr D was concerned that his car might be disposed of by the police 
and he told Skyfire about this. Skyfire told him it would send a recovery agent. As part of that 
call, Skyfire said if the claim didnt proceed for any reason, Mr D would have to pay for the 
cost of recovery. Mr D told Skyfire to not send the recovery company because he didnt want 
to incur unnecessary charges. 
There was a series of delays made by Skyfire in dealing with the claim and Mr D was 
misdirected in some calls. 
He complained about the service and Skyfire said it would pay him £300 for the delays and 
poor service.
The car was disposed of by the police because it wasnt recovered from them.
Skyfire valued the car at £22,451, but Mr D was expecting it to be worth about £26,000. 
Skyfire provided evidence of how it had calculated the cars value and didnt uphold this part 
of his complaint.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and said he thought the car valuation was fair and in line with this services guidelines. 
Mr D then said that Skyfire had told him initially that it would recover the car when hed first 
notified it about the incident. 
Skyfire said it had told Mr D about this, but it hadnt actually sent out the recovery company. 
It wasnt able to say why this hadnt happened. 
Skyfire offered an additional £100 compensation, and said it would pay 8% simple interest 
on the cars value from 3 October to 4 December to compensate Mr D for the delay in 
settling the claim.
Our investigator thought Skyfires offer was fair and reasonable. He thought that if Mr D had 
been told that he might be charged for the recovery costs when hed first called Skyfire, 
rather than two weeks later, he would still have declined Skyfires offer to recover the car.
Skyfire agreed with the view, but Mr D didnt. He is unhappy because he says Skyfires poor 
service meant that the car was disposed when hed wanted to retain it and repair it. 
He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds complaint covers several areas so for ease of reading Ive dealt with each of them in 
turn.
Vehicle valuation
Ive looked at Skyfires evidence about the way it values cars. I can see its approach fits with 
this services. We dont provide valuations for vehicles, but look to whether the insurers offer 
is reasonable.
Ive done research into Mr Ss car and Ive found these values, provided by three different 
trade guides, for the month his car was written off, which are based on a vehicle with the 
same specification and mileage:
Company A: £23,407
Company B: £22,687
Company C: £23,017
Company D: £21,660
Taking the average of these four trade guide values gives a valuation of £22,693, which is 
slightly above the value offered by Skyfire in its final response (£22,451). But the difference 
between these two figures is small and within this services parameters, so it follows that I 
think Skyfires offer is fair.
Service
Our investigator has said he thought Mr D would have declined to have his car recovered if 
hed been told in the first call about the possible recovery charges. Ive considered this point 
and I dont necessarily agree that he would have refused to have the car being recovered 
when he first rang Skyfire. 
But I dont think that point is important, because Mr D chose to not have it recovered about 
two weeks later when he contacted Skyfire. At that point, Mr D had a choice and he chose to 
not have the car recovered. So I cant say Skyfire acted unfairly.
Mr D also says hes disappointed because he wanted to retain the car and repair it. Ive 
looked at Skyfires estimate of the amount to repair the car which is considerably higher than 
its value, and I can see the car might have been written off as a category A meaning that it 
must be scrapped.
Mr D may have the ability to repair the car himself at a lower cost, but Id still regard this 
level of repair as being very significant indeed, and a category A write-off would have meant 
the car was scrapped anyway.
So although Mr D has said he wanted to retain the car and repair it, the actual situation may 
have been different if the car had been recovered back to his care, or if Skyfire had written it off as a category A.
Ive thought about the service Mr D had after his car was badly damaged. I can see there 
was a significant delay in assessing and settling his claim which was caused by Skyfires 
processes.
I can see from his evidence that Mr D found these delays stressful and inconvenient. Skyfire 
has agreed to pay a total of £400 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Skyfire has also said it will pay 8% simple interest on the claim amount for period of about 
two months he was waiting for his claim to be settled. 
Ive thought carefully about these offers, and I think they are both fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £400 for Mr Ds 
distress and inconvenience, as well as 8% simple interest on the claim amount. I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr D £400 
compensation, plus interest at 8% simple on the claim amount from 3 October to 4 
December 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman