DRN-3022735
The complaint
 Miss S has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) should not have increased her 
overdraft limit given her circumstances at the time, and that it continued charging her 
excessive amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Miss S complained to Lloyds about her overdraft in November 2019. She explained that she 
felt Lloyds should not have allowed her to increase her overdraft limit as her circumstances 
meant she would struggle to manage such a large overdraft. She also explained that the 
extra cost of the charges was making her overdraft more difficult to repay and contributing to 
her financial difficulties. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint and noted it would only agree to 
look at overdraft increases and charges from November 2013 onwards. Miss S was 
dissatisfied so she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She agreed with Lloyds that 
we only had the power to consider overdraft applications and charges applied from 2013 
onwards. She also thought that Lloyds ought to have realised that Miss S was experiencing 
financial difficulty by January 2016 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and 
charges from this point onwards. Lloyds didnt respond so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Events from before November 2013
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint made more than six years 
after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three years after the complainant 
knew, or should have known they had reason to complain. This is Dispute Resolution rule 
2.8.2  and it can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Miss S had, at least, six years from the date of any overdraft increase or charge being 
applied in order to complain. Miss S complained in November 2019. So Miss S complained 
more than six years after any charges from before November 2013 were added to her 
account and more than six years after any overdraft limit increases that happened before 
November 2013.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to 
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they 
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. Miss S would have known if she 
was unhappy with the charges as soon as they were applied, and would also have been 
aware of whether she felt an overdraft shed been given was more than she could manage 
when it was applied to her account, and so this part of the rule doesnt give Miss S any 
additional time  so in this decision Ill only be looking at November 2013 onwards.
Events after November 2013
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Miss Ss overdraft 
in January 2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss S was in no position to 
sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because, by this time, Miss S was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Lloydss own literature 
suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. I think Lloyds also ought to have realised that Miss Ss use of her overdraft was 
likely to be unsustainable. Miss Ss statements show significant gambling in the months 
before the overdraft was renewed. And in these circumstances, Lloyds ought to have 
realised that Miss S was at a significant risk of being unable to repay what she already 
owed. I think that Miss Ss overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised 
that she wasnt using her overdraft as intended and that she might be at risk of financial 
difficulties. And so I dont think Lloyds should have continued offering the overdraft on the 
same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Miss Ss overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds 
didnt treat Miss S fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Miss S 
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ss complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the renewal in January 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss S to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ss 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ss complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman