DRN-4291740
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt refund money he lost in a scam.
 What happened
What Mr C says:
Mr C contacted what he thought was a legitimate bitcoin company after he saw an 
advertisement. He left his contact details and the company called him. He discussed the 
investment and he sent a copy of his passport and front and back of his debit card for ID 
purposes.
Mr C paid £251.10 by debit card as a members fee. He then sent a payment for £2,500. He 
was then told by the caller that the investment had grown to £17,476.28 and to release the 
funds, he needed to pay an exchange fee. He made another payment of £1,816.44. A few 
days later he was told the investment had grown to £19,030.18 and he needed to pay 
insurance which he would get back. He made a further payment of £3,119.85. The 
payments were:
Date Transaction Amount  GBP equivalent 
(paid in Euros)
29 March 2022 Debit card payment £251.10
29 March 2022 International payment - Portugal £2,500
29 March 2022 Fee - International payment £7.50
4 April 2022 International payment - Portugal £1,816.44
5 April 2022 International payment - Portugal £3,119.85
Total claim £7,694.89
Mr C became suspicious when he was asked for a further £5,671 as a commission 
payment  which was apparently needed to be paid to release the investment. He was then 
hassled further for more money  which he didnt pay. He realised that he was a victim of a 
scam.
Mr C says hes lost all his savings and has put his house on the market to downsize, repay 
his mortgage and rebuild his savings. He says hes had to get counselling for depression 
because of what happened.
Mr C contacted Lloyds on 8 April 2022 to report the scam and asked Lloyds for help to get 
his money back.
What Lloyds say:
In September 2022, Lloyd said the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) didnt 
apply in this case as the payments were overseas payments  which arent covered by the 
CRM code.
They said the onus is on customers to protect themselves  to research the company they 
were dealing with; for example, by confirming with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
that the investment company is genuine and regulated in the UK. Mr C entered a one-time 
password to confirm the payments. The international payments were not significantly higher 
than other payments he had made  so Lloyds said they had no reason to stop them.
Lloyds said they would contact the bank in Portugal to see if they could get any money back 
on a best endeavours basis. They raised a dispute for the debit card payment of £251.10.
Lloyds apologised that Mr Cs case hadnt been handled quickly enough and for that, paid 
compensation of £75.
Our investigation so far:
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the payments 
werent unusual enough for Lloyds to have intervened. The highest amount paid in the scam 
was £3,119.85 and this was in line with other activity on Mr Cs account. But Lloyds hadnt 
dealt with his scam claim quickly enough  as he contacted Lloyds on 8 April 2022 and it 
wasnt dealt with until 24 June 2022. But he said it was unlikely to have made a difference to 
the recovery of the money  as Mr C only got in touch with Lloyds a week after the first 
payment.
Mr C didnt agree. He said there were other similar cases where our service had upheld the 
complaint. He said the transactions were unusual for him and Lloyds shouldve intervened. 
Had they done so, it wouldve made a difference. He was completely taken in by the 
scammers and said Lloyds should refund the money paid. He asked that an ombudsman 
look at his complaint - and so it has come to me to do that.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Mr C has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. He made the debit card payment 
and confirmed the international payments with a one-time password. So although Mr C didnt 
intend for the money to go to the scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the 
first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to payments made to a UK beneficiary  and in 
this case, the payments were made to an overseas account. 
I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C when 
he made the payment, or whether it should have done more than they did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
I firstly considered whether it was reasonable to have expected Lloyds to step in and stop 
and question the payments. I looked at Mr Cs account.
In the 12 months before the payments in question  Mr C made regular debit card payments 
from his account.  These were for small amounts  usually less than £20 and appear to be 
for normal living expenses. 
But I could also see  a number of high value payments/debits which were similar in amounts 
to the payments to the scammer:
- 16 August 2021: £2,400  faster payment
- 27 September 2021: £4,785  debit card payment
- 4 October 2021: £2,400  faster payment
- 4 October 2021: £1,800  debit card payment
- 20 December 2021: £1,430  debit card payment
Against that, I accept that the three payments, in euros, and to an international beneficiary 
and for the amounts involved were unusual. And  Mr C was setting up the payee as a new 
beneficiary in online banking for the first time.
But equally, I must decide whether we wouldve expected Lloyds to intervene  given that 
the amounts paid out to the scammer werent unusual payments in terms of value. I must 
also consider that there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. If all payments 
such as the ones Mr C made were blocked while further enquiries were made, many 
genuine payments would be stopped which would cause significant disruption and delay. 
And in this case, on balance, I dont think its reasonable to have expected Lloyds to 
intervene  because the value of the payments made by Mr C to the scammer werent 
sufficiently unusual when completed to his normal account activity, as Ive set out.
Recovery:When a customer reports a scam of this type, we expect firms to contact the recipient bank 
promptly to try to get money returned. In this case, we saw that Lloyds didnt contact the 
overseas bank until 24 June 2022. So  we asked Lloyds more questions about why this 
didnt take place until then  as Mr C contacted Lloyds on 8 April 2022. 
We asked for and listened to the calls between Mr C and Lloyds. On the first call  on 8 April 
2022, Lloyds call handler said Mr C needed to speak to Lloyds payments department and 
he should call them the next day  but unfortunately, when he called the next day, the 
payments department was closed (it was a Saturday).  Given that Mr C needed to speak to 
Lloyds fraud department (and on the call he was told they were available 24/7)  Im not 
clear why he was directed to the payments department. This was an error by Lloyds.
When Mr C got through to the fraud department  on 11 April 2022  he was told Lloyds 
couldnt do anything and he should call Action Fraud. The call handler said Action Fraud was 
a third-party company and was part of us - which was an error, as it isnt. I dont think that 
was a reasonable thing for Lloyds to do  Lloyds didnt take ownership of what had 
happened and didnt try to sort matters out for Mr C. They didnt log the call as a fraud, nor 
did they try to contact the recipient bank at that stage. 
But - I think its very unlikely that even if Lloyds had done so, that any funds couldve been 
returned then  as it was six days after the payments were made. I think its likely the funds 
wouldve been removed by the scammer by that time. But  in any case, Lloyds shouldve 
gone ahead and contacted the recipient bank then, but didnt.
After first contacting  the recipient bank on 24 June 2022, Lloyds contacted them again on 
12 July 2022, at which time the bank said there were no funds left to return. Unfortunately, 
where an overseas bank is involved in such a scam, they are under no obligation to respond 
to requests for return of funds  and therefore it was unlikely Lloyds wouldve been able to 
get a return of the money in any case.
Lloyds attempted to get the amount of the debit card payment refunded by the card scheme 
which issued the card. We asked Lloyds more about this and they said the claim failed. I 
havent looked at this further as this was an authorised payment by Mr C, and a chargeback 
had no reasonable prospects of success.
Service:
Mr C says he was told by Lloyds that he would get his money back. We asked Lloyds more 
about this and listened to the calls  and I didnt hear a commitment from Lloyds to refund 
the money. There were some references by call handlers that they were going to get it 
sorted, but I dont think that was a commitment to refund the money.
It took from when Mr C contacted Lloyds on 8 April 2022 until July 2022 to deal with the 
scam claim. We asked Lloyds more about this and when Mr C called Lloyds on 8 April 2022, 
he was asked to call again the next day. But on that day, the department he was referred to 
was the payments department and was closed  and he then spoke to Lloyds about the 
scam on 11 April 2022. But it wasnt logged as a scam, and not followed up by Lloyds at  
that time  as it shouldve been. It was only actioned as such when Mr C made a complaint 
in June 2022.
Lloyds paid compensation of £75 for this delay. While (as I said earlier) it was unlikely this 
had any impact on Mr Cs losses, Im not persuaded that this was enough  as during that 
time, Lloyds couldve been pursuing the recipient bank for a refund. And theyd referred Mr C 
to Action Fraud  I dont think that was sufficient. On the calls with Lloyds, Mr C said he hadnt been able to get through to Action Fraud. So  Mr C was left for the three-month 
period without any action taking place or having any knowledge as to whether his bank was 
dealing with his case.   
Therefore, because Lloyds shouldve approached the recipient bank earlier and because 
they didnt log and action the scam case when Mr C reported it  I think its reasonable that 
Lloyds pay total compensation of £200  to include the £75 already paid.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this provisional decision  as Im saying that the 
amounts paid to the scammer dont need to be refunded. Hes argued that our service has 
made decisions to refund money in similar cases. But  our core principle is to review 
complaints based on the individual circumstances of each one. And having reviewed his 
complaint, Im confident that this is the right outcome in this case.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Lloyds agreed, but Mr C didnt. He set out again that when he called Lloyds on 8 April 2022, 
there were a series of errors which meant the scam wasnt dealt with as quickly as it 
shouldve been. He set out the errors by Lloyds (as Ive described in the provisional 
decision) which meant they didnt approach the recipient bank until June 2022.  which was 
when he complained. He said that 14 weeks of inaction by Lloyds was unacceptable, and 
the compensation of £200 wasnt enough for that.
I now need to consider the points Mr C had made and come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Cs response to the provisional decision. I revisited the complaint, calls 
and sequence of events. There are two issues here:
- If Lloyds had contacted the recipient bank on 8 April 222 or 11 April 202  could that 
have led to a return of the funds?
- Is the compensation of £200 sufficient?
On the first point about recovery, I considered that in the provisional decision. Our 
experience of such scams is that funds are removed by the scammers within hours 
(sometimes minutes) of being credited to the receiving account. In Mr Cs case, if Lloyds had 
acted on the earliest date (8 April 2022), then between three days and ten days had elapsed 
(depending on which payment). Added to which, Lloyds wouldve been dealing with an 
overseas bank  and such banks dont have the same obligation to return funds compared to 
a UK bank. And there are practical implications also. So  Im persuaded there was very little 
chance of getting any money back.
On Mr Cs second point about service, I agree Lloyds shouldve done much better, and 
covered that in the provisional decision. Our criteria for awards is set out at:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience
I reviewed what happened again and am confident that the award of £200 is fair for what 
happened. Lloyds did make a mistake at the outset, and Mr C suffered some worry and stress  as he didnt know what was going on after he called. For a higher award, I would 
have expected to see evidence of ongoing and acute concerns. For example  that might 
have been frequent calls / emails /messages from Mr C to Lloyds chasing matters up. But I 
didnt see that. So  while Mr C will be disappointed, my decision is that it is reasonable that 
Lloyds compensation of £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must:
- Pay compensation of £125 for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the 
£75 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman