DRN-3015253
The complaint
Mr H complains about his insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). His complaint relates to the 
rejection of a claim under his home insurance policy for damage to his property caused by 
mould from a faulty extractor hose.
 
Reference to AXA includes their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr H noticed mould forming on a ceiling at his property. As a relatively new property 
Mr H initially raised the issue with the developer, who said that it fell outside the period from 
construction that they would deal with any problems. Mr H then contacted the National 
House Building Council (NHBC) who thought the issue was due to the extractor fan not 
switching on for a long enough period when the bathroom was used. Mr H engaged a 
contractor who adjusted the timer on the fan and re-connected a detached hose from the fan 
that should have vented through the roof.
 
In 2021 Mr H again noticed mould forming on a bedroom ceiling and found that the hose 
from the fan had become disconnected, so moisture hadnt been extracted and led to mould 
forming. Mr H contacted AXA to report the damage, as he considered that it arose through 
accidental damage (the hose becoming detached) and therefore should be covered under 
his policy. Mr H told AXA that he thought the issue had been ongoing for three years. 
AXA considered Mr Hs claim but declined it, saying that his policy provided for one-off, 
unforeseeable events. Whereas the damage from the faulty hose happened gradually over 
time. AXA said that gradual deterioration and mould was excluded under the policy terms. 
Unhappy at the rejection of his claim, Mr H complained to AXA. But AXA confirmed its earlier 
decision.
Mr H complained to this service. He said that he reported the damage to AXA as soon as he 
became aware of the cause, and that it should be covered as accidental damage arising 
from the detached hose. He didnt think that AXA fairly applied an exclusion due to mould.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that AXA didnt need to take any 
further action. He concluded that the policy terms and conditions supported AXAs decision 
to decline the claim, and that there wasnt an insurable event. Nor would what happened fall 
within accidental damage, as the investigator thought the hose becoming detached would be 
most likely to be the result of faulty workmanship (which was also an exclusion under the 
policy). Additionally, damage due to mould was a general exclusion under the policy.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Specifically, Mr H said that he was claiming for the resulting damage from the 
disconnected hose, the cause of which was accidental. He also didnt think that faulty 
workmanship was the cause. 
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AXA has acted fairly towards Mr H.
In declining his claim, AXA referred to the policy terms and conditions that excluded damage 
caused by mould. Under a General Exclusions heading the policy booklet states:
9 Gradual damage/deterioration/maintenance
Any loss or damage caused gradually or bymould
I think its clear that this exclusion includes mould, which would have developed over time 
due to moisture from the bathroom not being vented out of the roof.
 
Mr H says that it was unfair for AXA to use this exclusion to decline his claim, rather they 
should have accepted his claim under the accidental damage section of the policy. Ive 
looked at the relevant parts of the policy, noting that while accidental damage is referred to, 
there isnt a specific definition of the term or other description of what it means. However, 
generally the term is used to describe a one-off event that cannot have been foreseen or 
reasonably have been foreseen. While the term isnt defined in the policy, there is a 
reference under the heading What is covered to Accidental damage or loss to the 
buildings. Theres also a heading What is not covered that includes:
2 Loss or damage:
a. Specifically excluded under buildings causes 1-11 and covers 12-20
i. Arising from faulty workmanship, defective design or use of defective materials
Thinking about these terms and conditions, together with what Mr H told us about what 
happened, I dont think that the disconnection of the hose can reasonably be held to fall 
under accidental damage. Also, the mould that resulted from the disconnected hose would 
have developed gradually over time following the disconnection. Thats also consistent with 
what Mr H told us about the problem first occurring in 2019 and then again in 2021. And as 
noted above, damage from mould is specifically excluded from cover.
Mr H also told us, when making his complaint, that the contractor he engaged in 2019 re-
connected the hose. Mr Hs discovery of the disconnected hose when the mould appeared 
again in 2021 indicates it wasnt the first time that the issue of a disconnected hose had 
arisen. While it isnt possible to determine exactly why a similar event would have happened 
twice in two years, I think it may indicate one of the exclusions for faulty workmanship or 
defective design listed above.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that AXA acted reasonably in declining Mr 
Hs claim on the grounds of the damage (mould) occurring gradually over time and that it 
wasnt accidental damage. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 Paul King
Ombudsman