DRN-1173163
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in April 2006 
on a credit card. Mr T says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
An adjudicator reviewed the case and didnt think Capital One had mis-sold the PPI to Mr T. 
As Mr T disagreed, the case was referred to me  an ombudsman  to issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr T, Capital One had to make it clear the policy was optional. It
also had to get Mr Ts agreement to take it out. Mr T says it was never made clear to him 
that the PPI was optional. 
The PPI was sold to Mr T when he called Capital One to activate his new credit card. Capital 
One hasnt been able to give us a recording of the phone call, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago the call took place. But it has shown us a copy of the script it says its call 
handlers were required to follow at the time Mr T bought his PPI. I think the script makes it 
clear that the PPI is an optional product and prompts the call handler to ask for the 
consumers consent before adding PPI onto the account. With my understanding of how 
Capital One generally sold PPI, I think the script Ive seen is likely reflective of what would 
have been said to Mr T.
So with all this in mind, I think its more likely Capital One made it clear that Mr T had a 
choice about taking the PPI, and I think he chose to take it knowing he didnt have to.
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr T got the information he needed to decide if it
was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr T says he wouldve received some employer benefits if he was off work sick or was made 
redundant. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay or redundancy package Mr T 
wouldve received and it wouldve paid for up to 12 months if necessary. This wouldve 
allowed Mr T to use his employer benefits to cover any other expenses and costs he may 
have had to cover. Mr T says he had some savings that he couldve relied on. But the PPI 
wouldve allowed him to keep these savings intact. So, I think he wouldve found the 
additional protection the policy provided useful.
The PPI cost Mr P 79p per £100 of Mr Ts monthly statement balance. There isnt anything 
to show this wasnt affordable to Mr T. And as the policys premiums were paid monthly and 
separately detailed on his statements, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his 
needs. 
So, overall I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr T off taking out 
the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because Capital One didnt
tell Mr T, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said, especially his comments about not being aware 
the PPI was optional. But for the reasons explained above, I dont think Capital One needs to 
do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Capital One Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman