DRN-3771928
The complaint
Miss A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont fund transactions 
she says she didnt make.
What happened
In December 2021, Miss A identified a number of transactions made on her current account, 
that she says she didnt make or authorise. These transactions were made between 11 
October 2021 and 23 November 2021, and total just over £4,500. All of the payments were 
made to the same payee, who Ill refer to as B.
 
Miss A raised a fraud claim with Nationwide and asked them to refund her. 
Nationwide investigated but declined to refund Miss A, saying the device ID used to make 
the disputed transactions was the same as the one Miss A uses for her online banking. Also, 
that no new devices had been registered against Miss As account.
Miss A wasnt happy with Nationwides response, so she brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Miss As complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained they 
couldnt see how anyone other than Miss A couldve completed the transactions because:
Miss A couldnt remember receiving any calls or downloading any apps that couldve 
given a fraudster access to her online banking in order to make the transactions.
The transactions were made using the same device as previous undisputed 
transactions and were authenticated with Verified by Visa (VBV). This meant the 
person making the transactions needed her long card number, the CVV on the card 
and her VBV password.
Miss A disagreed with the investigators opinion so the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Miss A says that she didnt make or authorise the transactions made to B from her current 
account. 
Generally, Nationwide can hold Miss A liable for the disputed card transactions if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that Miss A authorised 
these transactions because:
Mobile banking logs show someone signing into Miss As account and reviewing the 
balance and pending transactions during the time of these disputed transactions. The 
device ID and IP address match the details for previous log ins, so I think its more 
likely than not it was Miss A logging in. As she was logging into her account on a 
regular basis during the weeks the disputed transactions were being made, I 
wouldve expected her to have identified these transactions earlier. And, I wouldve 
expected her to report them to Nationwide at the time, instead of waiting a month and 
reporting them in December.
Miss A says her mobile banking mayve been compromised, however says she 
hadnt received any unknown calls, hadnt given out her banking details to anyone 
and says no one knows the PIN to her phone. So, its unclear how a third party 
couldve obtained the information needed in order for them to log into Miss As mobile 
banking without her knowledge.
Miss A also says that the transactions didnt show up on her mobile or online 
banking, so she wasnt aware of them until December. However, based on the 
statements Nationwide have provided and the authentication evidence, I think its 
more likely than not that the transactions wouldve shown on Miss As account shortly 
after they were made. Or, that if they didnt show up immediately, they wouldve 
shown as pending and have affected her available balance in her account. I think its 
unlikely that the transactions wouldnt have shown up on her account until December 
 nearly two months after the first payment was made.
Each of the payments made to B were Verified by Visa (VBV)  this meant that the 
person making the payments also had to know Miss As password for VBV and its 
unclear how a third party wouldve got this information.
The pattern of the transactions isnt usual fraudster activity. The payments are 
spread out over a four week period, and dont drain the balance of Miss As account. 
A fraudster will usually take as much money as quickly as possible as they know the 
fraud could be detected by the account owner and the account blocked.
Nationwide believe Miss A mayve been the victim of an investment scam, but I can only 
consider Miss As complaint based on what Miss A has told us, and not on what mightve 
happened. In this case, Miss A says she didnt make or authorise the transactions.
I realise that Miss A is going to be very disappointed but having carefully considered 
everything shes told me I think its more likely than not she did authorise these transactions. 
Therefore, I cant fairly ask Nationwide to refund her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman