DRN-3838759
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank PLC when she went into branch to 
withdraw £20,000 in cash.
What happened
On 12 May 2022, Mrs E went into a branch of Lloyds to withdraw £20,000 in cash. She says 
she has made this transaction two times before, and she also contacted Lloyds a week 
before she went into branch to let it know that she was making the withdrawal.  Mrs E says 
that despite this, she was taken to a side room and asked what she wanted the money for. 
Mrs E says she didnt want to tell Lloyds what the funds were for, and she was unhappy with 
this type of questioning. 
Because Mrs E didnt answer Lloyds questions about the use of the funds, Lloyds branch 
manager contacted the police who attended the branch to speak to her. Mrs E says that the 
police officer agreed she is entitled to her privacy about the use of the funds, and she says 
the officer said they could see no reason why she shouldnt be given the funds. And so 
Lloyds allowed her to make the cash withdrawal.
Mrs E says that as a result of Lloyds contacting the police, she was made to feel like a 
criminal and she felt humiliated. She felt that Lloyds had attempted to bully, threaten and 
pressurise her by involving the police. Mrs E feels she has a right to privacy, and Lloyds 
should have been aware of where the funds had come from. 
Lloyds responded to Mrs Es complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said it had acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account when it made enquiries into the withdrawal. It also 
said it followed its normal security procedure. It noted Mrs Es dissatisfaction with its 
procedures, but said it wasnt going to change them.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mrs E brought her complaint to this service.
 
Our Investigator looked into things for Mrs E, but they didnt uphold her complaint. The 
Investigator accepted that Mrs Es experience in branch was likely an unpleasant one, but 
they thought Lloyds had acted in the way it did in an attempt to protect Mrs Es account. 
Mrs E didnt agree with the Investigators view. In summary, she reiterated that she didnt feel 
it was fair of Lloyds to have involved the police  and that it didnt have a right to divulge her 
personal account information to the police, and that she had a right to privacy. Mrs E didnt 
feel as though Lloyds had strictly followed its terms and conditions when it took the action it 
did. And she asked for an Ombudsman to review her case  so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Mrs Es complaint. I am 
sorry to disappoint Mrs E, its clear that she feels very strongly about her complaint, and I 
can understand why. 
In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mrs 
E has described and how she felt about what happened in branch. But being independent 
means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties have said and take into 
account the evidence available. I have to look to see if Lloyds has acted fairly and 
reasonably  when it took the actions it did in branch. And I think it has and Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Es account have a section specifically relating to the 
security of the account (Section B). This says:
How do you and we keep your account secure?
2.1 We will do all we reasonably can to prevent unauthorised access to your accounts and to 
make sure they are secure.
2.2 You must:
 follow instructions we give you, which we reasonably consider are needed to protect your 
accounts from unauthorised access;
Based on this, I find that Lloyds acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
when it questioned Mrs E in the way it did and subsequently contacted the police when Mrs 
E didnt follow instruction to let it know what the funds were being used for.
Further down in the terms and conditions, Section C 5.4 explains that Lloyds can refuse to 
make a payment or allow a cash withdrawal under certain circumstances, examples of 
these circumstances are included. Having looked at the examples provided, while I 
appreciate Lloyds didnt refuse the transaction, I think it took steps in line with the terms and 
conditions before it agreed to allow the withdrawal. So again, I cant see it has done anything 
wrong here.
In addition to what Ive said above, all banks have a duty to protect its customers from fraud 
and scams. So, theyll have policies and procedures in place to try and protect its customer 
from falling victim to these things. In this particular case, Lloyds has said that it invoked what 
is known as Banking Protocol when Mrs E refused to explain what the funds were being 
used for. 
Banking Protocol is an initiative between banks and the police to identify customers, 
specifically in branch, who could be in the process of sending their money to a scammer or 
fraudster. Banks will usually have a set of questions it will ask its customer when they are 
making large value cash withdrawals in branch, if they feel the questioning is necessary. If 
the branch staff arent satisfied with the responses from its customer, then it may contact the 
police and ask them to attend the branch to speak to the customer  which is what has 
happened in this case.
I have looked at Lloyds process for the Banking Protocol. I can see that Mrs E responded to 
Lloyds questioning in a way that could indicate that Mrs E was the victim of a scam. I can 
see that the branch manager contacted its internal fraud department for guidance on what to 
do, and the fraud department suggested the branch manager contact the police. I havent 
seen anything that makes me think Lloyds did anything outside of the Banking Protocol 
process when it contacted the police. And given that Mrs E didnt want to discuss the 
transaction with Lloyds, I dont think its actions in contacting the police were unreasonable.While I understand Mrs E didnt want to tell Lloyds or the police what the funds were being 
used for, Lloyds has an obligation to try and prevent Mrs E from falling victim to a scam or 
fraud. And I think the actions it took were only done to try and prevent something like this 
from happening  not because its intention was to make Mrs E feel as though her privacy 
was being invaded.
I have taken on board Mrs Es comments, in that she had made this type of transaction twice 
previously, and she had let Lloyds know that she was going to make the same transaction 
again a week before she did it. But I dont think either of these things mean that Mrs E 
couldnt have been a victim of a scam, or that Lloyds should have simply allowed the 
transaction to be processed without satisfying itself that Mrs Es money was safe. 
Mrs E feels strongly that Lloyds has breached data protection laws by divulging information 
about her account to the police. A complaint about a breach of data is probably best dealt 
with by the Information Commissioners Office. However, given what Ive already explained 
about the Banking Protocol process, that I think Lloyds fairly followed, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Lloyds to explain to the police certain information about Mrs Es account.
While I have no doubt that Mrs E felt the experience in branch was humiliating and 
distressing, I dont think that Lloyds were unreasonable in following the steps in the banking 
protocol; and in contacting the police when Mrs Es responses to its questions raised further 
concerns about the safety of her money. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more 
for Mrs E in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman