DRN-2745358
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs A complain about Society of Lloyds and how it handled an insurance claim 
made for damage caused to a rental property by an escape of water, under a Property 
Owners policy.
Lloyds had agents deal with the claim on its behalf so for clarity Ill just refer to Lloyds. And 
Mr C is the main corresponding party, so Ill mainly refer to him throughout.
What happened
A summary of the background to what happened is as follows;
- The insured property is large spanning three floors and many rooms.
- In March 2018 damage was caused by water due to a burst pipe.
- Lloyds started to handle a claim and investigate what had happened.
- Mr C appointed his own surveyor to assist in May 2018.
- Initial payments were made in July 2018 (towards stripping out, loss of contents and 
loss of rent).
- The property had to be dried before repairs could be undertaken and this was 
completed in late August 2018 (Mr C disputes the property was in fact dry).
- Mr Cs surveyor completed a schedule of works (SOW), which Lloyds approved in 
late September 2018.
- A tender process took place and a company, CB, was recommended.
- But Mr C decided that hed use his own contractor as they price matched CB.
- Mr C says Lloyds subsequently attempted to reduce the agreed SOW and price 
(particularly using a cheaper method of plasterboard as opposed to lath and plaster).
- By February 2019 Lloyds reversed its decision and approved CBs repair in lath and 
plaster. Lloyds also made a further payment of almost £77,000 (towards contents 
and loss of rent).
- Mr C wanted repairs carried out by his own contractor (not CB) and an inspection of 
the property led to a recommendation that plasterboard should be used.
- This was shared with Lloyds in early March, at the same time as works started, with 
an anticipated repair duration of around 26 weeks.
- Mr C had also instructed the carrying out of non-insured works at his own expense.
- At the end of April 2019 Lloyds loss adjuster visited the property and started to 
refuse some payments to Mr Cs contractor and said the change to plasterboard was 
unknown. It was a cheaper and quicker repair method and so reduced the overall 
expected duration of 26 weeks to 20 weeks.
- In May 2019 Lloyds told Mr C it would cash settle the claim and wouldnt be 
renewing his insurance policy.
Mr Cs unhappy with the amount Lloyds has offered, removal of sums from the estimate and 
loss of rent not being paid for August and September 2019, which had previously been 
agreed.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted fairly, in summary she explained;
- Lloyds was entitled to appoint a Quantity Surveyor to review the proposed works.
- Revised costs in late January 2019 from Mr Cs surveyor specified plasterboard at 
£240,449.98 - 10% contingency total £218,590.89.
- Emails between Mr C and Lloyds loss adjuster after this showed Mr C was being 
urged to start the repairs and use modern repair methods (such as plasterboard) as 
they were quicker and more cost effective, so the property could be let sooner. 
- The loss adjuster said loss of rent wouldnt be covered beyond July 2019.
- Lloyds confirmed to Mr C that it wouldnt be liable for any increased costs from 
Mr Cs contractor as theyd agreed to match CBs tender and it was entitled to do 
this.
- Some revisions to Mr Cs surveyors SOW limiting repairs to insured areas only 
rather than other unaffected areas, was considered by the investigator to be fair.
- While Mr C and Mrs A may have suffered some distress and inconvenience the 
nature of such a claim was always going to be inconvenient. 
- She was persuaded the claim took longer than was reasonable but thought this 
wasnt all down to Lloyds as she felt both sides contributed to delays.
- At renewal of the policy she said Lloyds was entitled to consider the risks apparent 
and decide whether to cover those or not. Its decision not to offer cover was a 
commercial decision for Lloyds based on the risk and she thought Lloyds had acted 
fairly.
Mr C disagreed saying, in summary;
- Not much reliance should be placed on the loss adjusters involvement because;
oThere was a lack of good faith from the loss adjuster who he says made 
communication very difficult.
oThe relationship was strained, and the loss adjuster was aggressive and 
unprofessional.
- The cash settlement was artificially reduced, and the amount should be £285,768.82 
(inc VAT)
- Loss of rent was artificially reduced because remedial works werent complete until 
after the end of September and so its reasonable to expect loss of rent up to that 
point.
- Not much notice was given about refusing to renew the policy and so new insurance 
was more costly given the works ongoing. However, reluctantly, Mr C didnt seek 
reconsideration of this.
- The distress and inconvenience experienced were solely related to the actions of 
Lloyds and its agents handling the claim. 
The investigator made further enquiries about the settlement amount and confirmed to Mr C 
that Lloyds was entitled under the policy to make a cash settlement, and that was fair given 
he wanted to use his own appointed contractor. It was possible the contingency amount may 
be due, but Mr C would need to approach the loss adjuster to confirm. Lloyds had said if the 
additional amount is below 10% then it would be accepted but above that would need to be 
agreed by the loss adjuster.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main aspect of the complaint relates to the amount of money received as a cash 
settlement. In simple terms Mr C and Mrs T believe Lloyds settlement is around £55,000 
less than the final cost incurred in remediating all the insurance related damage. There are other issues such as delay and loss of rent. My role is to determine what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Settlement amount
In this case, as Mr C decided to appoint his own contractor whod agreed to match the 
tender price, Im satisfied its fair that Lloyds decided to issue a cash settlement. Lloyds was 
not managing the repairs or appointing the repair contractors and in these circumstances all 
it can be reasonably expected to do is pay out money related to insured works. Indeed, the 
policy sets out that Lloyds has the option to do this and that it will not pay for repairs to a 
condition better or more extensive than the condition prior to the loss. And, importantly, 
Lloyds is only required to cover insured damage and not damage unrelated to the insured 
event.
This settlement issue is somewhat complicated because of the various stated and adjusted 
amounts throughout the claim process. What appears to have been eventually agreed 
(before works started) was a revised figure of £240,449.98 - 10% contingency total 
£218,590.89. If repair works exceed the lesser total amount the contingency kicks in and 
further monies would be paid where the additional amount is within the contingency 
percentage. Where additional costs exceed the contingency Lloyds loss adjuster would 
need to review and agree any further payment. But Lloyds made deductions to the revised 
figure it had agreed to after works on site had already started but were not yet complete. And 
it appears that the final offer was based on reinstatement at £230,733.47 (inc VAT).   
The adjustments include the fact that the repairs were done with plasterboard, which in 
Lloyds opinion is a cheaper and quicker method and so this impacts not only the overall 
repair amount but equally the time taken. Consequently, loss of rent was reduced to reflect 
this quicker method being capped to July 2019. Its also of note that Mr C had private works 
done to the property at the same time and Lloyds wouldnt be liable for the cost of these or 
the time taken. There was also an adjustment made about the extent of rewiring given the 
entire house was to be rewired but it wasnt all affected by the original event. And I think its 
reasonable for Lloyds to have factored in the impact of private works on the overall duration 
of insured works. 
All this still leaves some uncertainty about the application of the 10% contingency. It follows 
from what Lloyds has said that the settlement it has given to Mr C would exclude the 
contingency amount. That makes sense because Lloyds usual process is to withhold the 
contingency pending the final repair costs for the insured work. Its settlement was made well 
before the repairs were complete. So, it was unknown as to what additional issues might 
arise. And indeed, Lloyds has told us that a contingency amount may still be available. 
Now that insured works have been completed, and all repairs and costs are actually known, 
it seems to me that Mr C needs to revert to Lloyds so that its loss adjuster can review the 
additional costs to ensure; i) they relate to insured works ii) if they fall within the 10% 
contingency and so would be paid forthwith iii) that those outside the contingency would 
need further review and agreement from Lloyds. I note Mr C has approached his insurance 
broker to take this forward to Lloyds. Lloyds has received the information which isnt 
particularised such that it can be assessed as to whether additional costs related to insured 
works. Lloyds may wish to consider asking a different loss adjuster to be Mr Cs point of 
contact. But Mr C will need to provide particularised costs and to what they relate such that 
they can be considered against the requirement that they relate to insured works. Id expect 
Lloyds to prioritise an answer to Mr C on receipt of particularised costs, and if making further 
payment to do so as a priority. 
Loss of rentThe dispute here concerns two months (August and September). There are indications 
within the information sent that Lloyds initially agreed a 26-week timeframe, but this was 
reduced on foot of the decision to use a plasterboard repair. Im satisfied thats a reasonable 
approach for Lloyds to take and it also factored in the fact that private works were being 
undertaken at the same time. I make no award on this aspect.
Delay and compensation
The extent of damage and the fact that affected areas of the property were saturated with 
water made this a large and complex claim. Inevitably, repairing such a property is a long 
process from drying it out, carrying out a tender process, Lloyds validation of costs and 
agreeing not just schedules of work but ironing out issues that arise such as clear 
delineations between insured and non-insured works. While its understandable that Mr C 
felt the loss adjuster was obstructive and delaying things in challenging costs and the extent 
of necessary repairs, insurers are entitled to scrutinise claims particularly where theyre large 
and complex. They should do so promptly and fairly but the mere fact of doing it isnt in my 
view unfair. 
Issues arose during the process such as whether the property was underinsured, thats a 
valid reason for an insurer to make further enquiries and this can mean some delay in 
making progress. While Lloyds viewed the property as underinsured it decided not to deduct 
anything from the settlement and Im satisfied it acted reasonably.
The property took longer than initially thought to be sufficiently dry and the loss adjuster was 
regularly chasing updates on the drying out of the property and indeed ensured further strip 
out was carried out to better aid the drying process. The property is large and described as 
saturated, and given the circumstances drying took longer than anticipated or expected. Im 
not persuaded Lloyds is responsible for delay. 
At times Lloyds sought additional expert input such as from a Quantity Surveyor. Large and 
complex claims are, in my experience, rarely straightforward and issues do arise that mean 
additional work, inspection or expert views are required. Equally, while understandably 
property owners use such catastrophic events to update and modernise a property with 
private works alongside the insured works, often this can affect the timeline in getting to the 
repair point or the actual repair process. 
The loss adjuster was in regular contact with Mr Cs appointed surveyor and, for example, in 
August 2018 emailed Mr C to give an update. I note at times various people involved were 
on holiday and the tender documents were to be reviewed carefully given the size of the 
claim. These arent unusual circumstances but do impact timeliness as all parties want to 
ensure the claim is resolved fairly. 
Having thought about all the circumstances carefully Im not satisfied Lloyds is responsible 
for delays that warrant me awarding compensation. And Im not satisfied the loss adjuster 
obstructed the fair progression of the claim. Mr C was well assisted by the surveyor he had 
instructed and overall, Im not making adverse findings against Lloyds.
I have referenced under the section headed Settlement Amount (the final paragraph of that 
section) what next steps Mr C and Mrs T can take in submitting their itemised additional 
costs to Lloyds who will review them against the contingency element. Lloyds will of course 
need to review those and let Mr C know its decision and where making payment do so as a 
priority.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman