DRN-3812242
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that when she made a legal expense claim for both defence and 
counterclaim assistance for a property dispute, she was having. Amtrust Europe Limited 
didnt provide any advice on the counterclaim aspect. She says this caused her to lose out 
financially and shed like compensation for legal fees she paid.
Any reference to Amtrust includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs M received a writ regarding an encroachment to a neighbours land in July 2020. Mrs M 
contacted Amtrust about the writ and about the fact that her neighbour was encroaching on a 
common path. 
Amtrust confirmed she was covered and referred the claim to a firm of solicitors Ill call S. 
Mrs M instructed a surveyor who was to look at both the claim and counterclaim. S initially 
reported to Amtrust that Mrs Ms claim and counterclaim had a greater than 50% prospects 
of success but said this was dependent on her surveyors report. When it commented on the 
proportionality of any action it said that it had no information to assess the value of the land 
in dispute and the surveyor would need to do this. It did, however, comment that fees and 
expenses for the matter could exceed £25,000. After speaking to the surveyor S reported to 
Amtrust that the action didnt enjoy prospects of success and raised issues regarding 
proportionality. Amtrust therefore withdrew its support.
Mrs M went on to instruct a solicitor  at her own cost of around £6,000  to defend the writ 
and to make the counterclaim. The parties were able to submit a joint motion and neither 
party was required to pay expenses to the other. 
Soon after the court proceedings had come to an end Mrs M raised a complaint with Amtrust 
that the counterclaim hadnt been considered and Amtrust contacted S. S provided Amtrust 
with a copy of an email it sent to Mrs M. In it S said:
I reviewed [the surveyors] report last night and spoke to him today.
Shortly put it doesnt enable me to be able to report to [Amtrust] that your defence enjoys 
reasonable prospects. His report cant indeed be released to your neighbour as it is overall 
not supportive. Its also the case that the report makes clear that the area of land in dispute 
is relatively minimal and [Amtrust] wont fund if the claim is not proportionate.
I have to so advise [Amtrust] and anticipate they will withdraw funding. 
When asked about the counterclaim of the neighbour encroaching on Mrs Ms path. S 
responded that A counterclaim would not have been appropriate (or possible) where, as 
here, there was no reasonable prospects of successfully defending the action. Amtrust 
informed Mrs M that if she still felt the counterclaim was justified, shed need to have a 
surveyors report of the issue of the alleged encroachment and that could then be 
considered.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with Amtrusts response and brought a complaint to this service. She 
said in all the correspondence S provided he only ever referred to the defence of the writ. He 
never once commented on the counterclaim. She says before he sent his email advising of 
the withdrawal for funding, he called her to explain this would be the case and would send 
an email confirming so. She says she specifically asked him about the counterclaim, and he 
advised her he was only instructed to investigate the pressing issue of the defence of the 
writ. She further says Amtrust didnt review the surveyors report until after her complaint. 
She says that Amtrust was incorrect to say there was no mention of the encroachment in the 
surveyors report (which was later rectified) because although it wasnt mentioned in the 
summary report it was shown on the plans.
She says she was given poor advice because she should have been told that she could 
pursue the counterclaim as a separate claim. A claim she believes she would have been 
covered for.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that both the 
defence and counterclaim elements of Mrs Ms claim were considered. And that it was fair 
for Amtrust to decline her claim based on the evidence presented to it by S, and not pursue 
the counterclaim.
Mrs M didnt agree that her counterclaim was considered. She said if it was considered then 
it would have been included in communication between her and S and she didnt receive any 
advice on the counterclaim. She says S only considered the chance of her defence. As her 
counterclaim concerned her neighbour having encroached on a common path, she says 
there is no defence to him having done this so her chance of success would have to be more 
than 51%. She says S told her in a phone call that they had only been advised to look at the 
success of the defence of the writ as the case was up against time. She says she should 
have been advised to raise the counterclaim separately
The investigator responded to say that if Mrs M had evidence that the counterclaim would 
have been successful, she should have supplied this to Amtrust. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in it I said:
I want to make it clear at the outset that this is a decision about Amtrust and its agents it is 
not a decision about S. We do not have jurisdiction to look at a complaint about S.
In common with many legal expenses policies, Mrs Ms policy provided that it may decline to 
support a claim if it formed the view: that you do not have a more than 50% chance of 
winning the case and achieving a positive outcome. This is known as a prospects of success 
assessment. Part of the consideration of a positive outcome involves a consideration of 
proportionality. If it is going to cost more to make a claim than the claim is worth then the 
claim wouldnt be considered to be proportional and indeed there is a specific clause in the 
insurance policy which excludes cover when: A reasonable estimate of your advisers costs 
of acting for you is more than the amount in dispute.
Insurers are not experts in law and so we think it is reasonable for them to rely on a properly 
qualified lawyers well-reasoned prospects of success assessment. In this case the lawyer 
making the assessment was a partner in his firm and so I have no reason to doubt he was 
properly qualified. When S was instructed, the letter of instruction said it included a copy of the claim form. The 
claim form says that the claim was for: Neighbour claimed we encroached on his property 
which we disputed. Upon looking into the property details we realised he had encroached on 
the common path. There was no resolution, he has issued us with a writ, we would like to 
defend and counterclaim regarding his encroachment on the common path. When S 
reported back to Amtrust in what is called a Stage 2 Screening it summarised the issues as: 
Clients sued by neighbour over boundary dispute; clients want to counterclaim. I therefore 
think Amtrust made S aware that the claim included a counterclaim. I appreciate that Mrs M 
says that S told her he was only instructed regarding the claim, but the written evidence 
doesnt support that his instructions were so limited.
After speaking to the surveyor, S emailed Amtrust to say: 
Shortly put, the report is not supportive and so we cannot say that the clients defence to the 
action raised enjoys reasonable prospects of success. Nor is the area of land such that the 
dispute is proportionate (and it maybe that cover is anyway doubtful).
We have so advised the client today and said that if she intends to defend the action she will 
have to do so privately given our recommendations to you and anticipating that you will not 
agree to fund further.
The advice from the solicitor is indeed very shortly put. But I do think it is clear that the 
defence to the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. I dont think what is set 
out in the email was however sufficient for Amtrust to say it had received a well-reasoned 
assessment of the claim regarding the neighbour encroaching on to the common path. I 
think the words: Nor is the area of land such that the dispute is proportionate is the solicitor 
saying that the common path claim isnt proportionate. But I think it would be reasonable to 
expect Amtrust to have followed this up and obtained clarification about what S was thinking.
Mrs M didnt immediately complain to Amtrust. She says this is because she was tied up in 
dealing with the writ.
When Mrs M did complain to Amtrust it did ask S about the counterclaim. And S said: A 
counterclaim would not have been appropriate (or possible) where, as here, there was no 
reasonable prospects of successfully defending the action. Your insured can of course 
pursue the counterclaim as a separate claim and may now wish to do so, but I obviously do 
not know what happened to the third partys court action and regard would have to be had to 
that, but I would think if this is what she now wants to consider it would be appropriate in the 
circumstances for the client to instruct a surveyors report which deals only with the issue of 
alleged third party encroachment on the common ground (and extent of same), to see if that 
claim report is supportive and therefore there is a claim which both enjoys prospects and is 
proportionate. I think this makes it clear that S didnt consider whether Mrs M could bring a 
separate claim for the encroachment on to the path at the time he told Amtrust the claim 
didnt have prospects of success.
I think Amtrust accepted a prospects of success assessment that wasnt complete as it didnt 
set out in a properly written, well-reasoned way what the prospects of success were for the 
claim regarding encroachment on to the common path.
It is unfortunate that Mrs M didnt raise her belief that S wasnt instructed regarding the 
encroachment on the common path with Amtrust immediately. Doing so would have meant S 
could have been asked to give his view on the prospects of success for the encroachment 
on the common path. But I accept that Mrs M was busy dealing with the writ.
Mrs M would like me to make an award of £3,000 being approximately half the cost of her 
defence and counterclaim. I can understand why Mrs M thinks that would be a fair resolution. But I cant make such an award. This is for two reasons. The first is she has told 
this service that the solicitor she instructed to act on the writ after Amtrust removed cover 
told her that the cost of pursing the encroachment on to the common path would be around 
£2,000. The second is that because as things currently stand, I am not yet satisfied that her 
claim would have been covered. To be satisfied that her claim would be covered I need 
Amtrust to instruct a barrister to consider whether, based on the information available at the 
time of the claim (or could have been obtained at that time,) the claim for the encroachment 
onto the common path had a reasonable prospect of success and was proportionate and 
therefore fell within cover under the policy. 
If the barrister does find there was prospects of success. I think it would be reasonable for 
Amtrust to pay Mrs M £2,000 towards her legal fees plus interest from the date she paid 
those fees at 8% fee simple.
I also think that Amtrust has caused Mrs M unnecessary distress and inconvenience at was 
already an upsetting time. I think it would be fair for it to pay her £200 to compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M had nothing further to add.
Amtrust accepted my provisional decision and provided me with a copy of an opinion it has 
obtained a barrister. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from it. 
It is not for me to review or comment on the barristers opinion as that was not part of 
Mrs Ms complaint to this service. I will, however, remind both parties that I said in my 
provisional decision that: Insurers are not experts in law and so we think it is reasonable for 
them to rely on a properly qualified lawyers well-reasoned prospects of success 
assessment. I will also remind both parties I said in my provisional decision the opinion 
needs to be based on the information available at the time of the claim (or could have been 
obtained at that time). 
Putting things right
To put things right I will direct that Amtrust:
instructs a barrister to carry out a prospects of success assessment for the claim for 
an encroachment on to the common path;
pays Mrs M £2,000 towards her legal fees (plus 8% interest a year simple from the 
date of payment of those fees to the date she receives the £2,000) if that prospects 
of success assessment finds that the encroachment on to the common path should 
have been covered under the policy and cover shouldnt therefore have been 
withdrawn; and
pays Mrs M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that Amtrust Europe Limited: 
instructs a barrister to carry out a prospects of success assessment for the claim for 
an encroachment on to the common path;
pays Mrs M £2,000 towards her legal fees (plus 8% interest a year simple from the 
date of payment of those fees to the date she receives the £2,000) if that prospects 
of success assessment finds that the encroachment on to the common path should 
have been covered under the policy and cover shouldnt therefore have been 
withdrawn; and
pays Mrs M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman