DRN-3157224
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly applied an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage. They said that Barclays delayed processing 
their application and that meant they lost the property they planned to buy.
 What happened
In 2018, Mr and Mrs W took a fixed rate mortgage with Barclays. An ERC applied if the
mortgage was repaid before 31 January 2029.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs W sold their home and incurred the ERC. They were looking to 
port their existing mortgage to a new property. But they were unable to complete their 
intended purchase as planned. The seller was self-isolating in line with government 
guidelines in place because of Covid-19. That purchase didnt go ahead.
Barclays agreed to extend the porting window from 90 days to six months to allow Mr and 
Mrs W to find another property.
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs W applied to port the mortgage to a new property. On 2 June 
2020, the mortgage application was submitted. The survey was completed on 3 July 2020. 
And on 20 July 2020, Barclays issued a mortgage offer.
Mr and Mrs W said that Barclays delayed producing a mortgage offer. As a result, they said 
that the property developer increased the price of the property. Mr and Mrs W eventually 
pulled out of the purchase and decided to rent for the next year.
Mr and Mrs W consider that Barclays delayed processing their application and that the
reason why they didnt port their mortgage. They want Barclays to refund the ERC.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. My findings were, and which 
form part of this decision:
The ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs W accepted 
the terms of the offer when they took it out. As they repaid the mortgage during the tie-in 
period Barclays was entitled to apply the ERC.
I consider that Barclays acted fairly by extending the time that Mr and Mrs W had to port 
their mortgage, to six and then nine months. But Mr and Mrs Ws point now is that their 
intended purchase fell through because there were delays by Barclays in producing a 
mortgage offer. Although, on the face of it, the time taken to consider the application might 
not have been unreasonable, I think in the circumstances of this case it was. Ill explain 
why.
Mr W has produced an email exchange between him and Barclays. I can see that on 9 
July 2020 Barclays replied to Mr W: Your survey has come back as satisfactory so your 
application is now being processed by our completions team. The new offer once 
generated will be sent to both you and the solicitors too. Its just in a queue to be actioned 
at the moment but Ive already chased it this morning.
Mr W replied: Any idea on timing? The landlord is remarking as we missed the deadline but 
still happy to exchange if we confirm asap we have the mortgage....And assuming he 
doesnt get a higher bid...
In response, Barclays said: Theres a 72 turnaround on the underwriters workload at the 
moment as our India offices are still closed so that would take us to Monday afternoon.
So Im satisfied by Wednesday 9 July Barclays had everything it needed to produce a 
mortgage offer. Im also satisfied by that time it knew that time was of the essence for Mr 
and Mrs W. The longer it took the more chance that the purchase would fall through. I 
note that Mr W had a number of phone conversation with Barclays  and it seems likely 
that the need for an offer to be produced by 10 July 2020 was mentioned during those 
calls.
Ive also looked at Barclays case notes. These notes use a lot of internal jargon and 
Barclays hasnt explained what any of it means. But they show that the survey was 
received on 7 July 2020. Bearing in mind Barclays said there was a 72-hour turnaround, 
its not clear why the offer wasnt produced on 10 July.
Between 7 and 20 July there seem to be a number of tasks passed around and some 
confusion around the nature of the porting application. But there does not appear to be 
any valid reason for the delay. I cant see why the mortgage offer wasnt produced by 10 
July 2020. Based on the evidence available to me I consider it more likely than not that 
Barclays did delay the application by around ten days, when it ought to have known that 
Mr and Mrs W needed the mortgage offer. I note that is based on my understanding of the 
case notes as it stands.
Where a business has made a mistake I try and put the affected party in the position they
would have been in had the mistake not occurred.
Mr and Mrs W have produced evidence to show that they had the property reserved until 10
July 2020. So I can see why they consider that the failure to obtain a mortgage offer in time
led to the purchase falling through. The difficulty I have is that Mr and Mrs W hadnt 
exchanged contracts at that time. Mr W has noted that the property market was going 
through a particularly volatile period. As neither Mr and Mrs W nor the seller were legally 
bound to complete, it isnt sufficiently clear that the purchase would have gone ahead had 
Barclays processed the application without delays.
Further, while I can understand why Mr and Mrs W made the decision to rent, after going 
through what must have been very stressful attempted purchases, they did have the 
opportunity to mitigate their loss by looking for somewhere else to buy. Barclays had 
extended the window for them to port even further. It was their decision not to do so. But I 
dont consider that Barclays would be required to extend the window for longer than it 
already offered. Nor do I think it would be fair for it to refund the ERC in these 
circumstances.
I accept that Barclays didnt handle the application as it should have. That has caused Mr 
and Mrs W avoidable and unnecessary stress during the period of the delay. So around 13 
days. They also had the inconvenience of chasing Barclays repeatedly during that period. 
And then there was the disappointment of losing the home they wanted to buy. That might 
not have been solely because of what Barclays did. But I can see how they reasonably 
understand that it contributed to it. In the circumstances, I consider it would be
Barclays to pay Mr and Mrs W £500 to reflect any distress and inconvenience.Barclays didnt respond. Mr and Mrs W didnt accept what I said. They made a number of 
points, including:
They werent able to exchange contracts until they had the mortgage offer  that was the 
sole reason they hadnt exchanged. 
Barclays own investigation found that the delay was the fault of at least one of their 
employees. They are concerned that Barclays hasnt provided this report as it puts the 
blame for the delay on Barclays.
The decision to rent wasnt taken lightly. The house they were renting was sold and 
there were no suitable and affordable properties at that time.
The compensation of £500 in no way compares to the ERC. Barclays has admitted the 
delay, which took them beyond the deadline they had agreed with the developer. That 
delay was the sole reason they could not port the mortgage.
They could have continued with the purchase and claimed the increased price from 
Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs W have said, but it hasnt changed my 
decision.
I agree that it is disappointing that Barclays hasnt shared the findings of its investigation into 
the delay. It should be giving us all relevant information relating to this complaint. But I dont 
consider I need that report to make my decision. That is because I accept that Barclays was 
the cause of the delay.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W consider that the sole reason that they did not port their 
mortgage was because of the delay by Barclays in producing the offer. But as I have 
explained, they werent at that point in a legally binding agreement to buy the property, as 
they hadnt exchanged contracts. Without that, it isnt enough for me to say that Mr and Mrs 
Ws intended purchase would have gone ahead but for the mistakes by Barclays. 
In any event, Mr and Mrs W could have mitigated their loss by porting their mortgage to 
another property. I understand the difficulties they faced because of the housing market and 
the lack of availability of suitable properties. But ultimately it was their decision not to pursue 
that avenue.
My award of compensation is intended to compensate Mr and Mrs W for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Barclays mistake. The amount of the ERC isnt relevant to that. 
That is because Ive already found that it wasnt Barclays delay which led to the ERC being 
applied  and Mr and Mrs W could have mitigated that loss by porting to a different property.
The compensation is for the disappointment, stress and inconvenience caused by the delay. 
It is not intended to be for the stress and upset caused by the fact their purchase fell through 
 but rather for the worry that it was Barclays failure to process their offer correctly which led 
to it falling through. And also for the unnecessary distress, uncertainty and inconvenience its 
delays directly caused. But not for the unavoidable stress and worry that goes with buying 
and selling property. Particularly as Mr and Mrs W found themselves in a difficult position already having sold their home, but unable to go ahead with their planned purchase.
Overall, I still consider that my award of £500 is a fair and reasonable way to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs W £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman