DRN-3031207
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs M say HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, (HSBC) mis-sold the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
information here. The information we had about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of 
the sale were summarised by our adjudicator and weve not received any more information 
about them since then. Again, Ive not repeated all that information here.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint and said that, although HSBC says it 
didnt do anything wrong in relation to the policy commission, its made an offer as if it had.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments made previously. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event HSBC has paid back some of the 
cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons 
for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr and Mrs M have said the PPI was just included with their mortgage. But what I have 
makes me think Mr and Mrs M applied for their mortgage by phone with the policy being 
applied for by post separately.
HSBC says that at the time, PPI wouldnt have been set up unless a separate PPI 
application form was completed and returned first. It says it no longer has a copy of the 
form completed by Mr and Mrs M, but it has sent a sample it says is representative of the 
form in use at the time. 
The sample suggests a separate application form and also a direct debit wouldve been 
signed by the applicants before the PPI could start. I think the use of a separate PPI 
application form wouldve tended to suggest the PPI was something separate from the 
mortgage loan and something Mr and Mrs M needed to make a separate decision about. 
The sample form is dated more than a year before the Mr and Mrs Ms sale, but Ive no 
persuasive evidence to suggest a similar form and process wasnt in use at the time 
Mr and Mrs M took their policy. Also, while I give Mr and Mrs Ms recollections some 
weight, Ive nothing else to suggest HSBC wouldnt normally have given customers like 
them a choice about the PPI and got their agreement to it before setting it up.
Taking everything into account, on balance what I have makes me think it more likely 
HSBC made it clear Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take the PPI and they chose to take it.
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M - so it didnt have to check the PPI 
was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs M enough clear and 
timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it, and I dont think they wouldve 
taken it without at least a broad understanding of what was covered - so it looks to me 
like they wanted this type of cover. Also it wasnt fundamentally wrong for them.
For example, nothing about Mr or Mrs Ms job or employment wouldve made it hard for 
them to claim. There were no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems, but there were exclusions related to pre-existing health issues. That said, what 
Ive received about Mr and Mrs Ms health isnt enough to make me think they wouldve 
been significantly affected by these exclusions. So Im not persuaded the exclusions on 
or limits to the cover were likely to affect them significantly such that knowing more about 
this wouldve put them off the policy. Also what theyve told us about their work benefits 
makes me think it likely they still had a need for cover. 
So it seems like the cover wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs M if something went 
wrong in the circumstances the policy covered. Also, bearing in mind the benefit it would 
pay and Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, I dont think more information about the cost of 
the cover wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Ms decision to buy it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think the PPI cover was too dissimilar to what its 
likely Mr and Mrs M thought they were buying from the information its likely they were 
given  and, with this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think they wouldve declined 
it had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs M wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what 
its likely they thought they were getting and couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult 
time, given their circumstances at the time. And, in those circumstances, I think they 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value 
because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low 
claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided HSBC didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event HSBC has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs 
to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary it has said Mr and Mrs M should get back all the money they paid for the policy 
because: HSBC failed to tell Mr and Mrs M about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because it says that 
meant the policy was poor value, it says I should find Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have taken the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a refund of all 
the premiums they paid.
But in this case, HSBC has told us the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less than 
half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how HSBC has worked this out 
and, based on what weve seen, Im satisfied the commission in Mr and Mrs Ms case was 
less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy;
I dont think HSBC needed to tell Mr and Mrs M about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think HSBC treated 
Mr and Mrs M unfairly. This means HSBC doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the 
commission they paid for the PPI. 
But in any event HSBC has paid back to Mr and Mrs M some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr and Mrs M as if it had treated them unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. 
So HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman