DRN-3259318
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the advice provided to him by D C Financial Limited 
(DCFL) to transfer the value of his defined benefit (DB) British Steel Pension Scheme 
(BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
Mr D is represented in this complaint by a third party which I will refer to as Representative 
A. Though for ease of reading Ill largely refer to all complainant representations as coming 
from Mr D.  
What happened
The history leading up to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been clearly set 
out in the investigators assessment, which for completeness, I have largely replicated below 
with small additions and amendments.
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of which 
was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of DB schemes when their employers become insolvent. 
On 31 March 2017, the BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual. 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was subsequently approved by 
the Pensions Regulator in August 2017.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits to a private arrangement (such as a personal pension plan).  A 
deadline was set for members to notify scheme administrators of their choice in 
December 2017. 
Mr D met with an adviser from DCFL in September 2017.  A transfer analysis and fact-find 
were prepared. The fact-find recorded the following, among other things:
 He was 36 years old and married with one son;
 He had limited knowledge and experience of investment;
 He was employed earning £36,500 basic and c. £47,000 including overtime;
 He was contributing 6% and his employer 10% to the company DC scheme;
 He and his wife owned their own home, valued at £135,000, with a mortgage of 
£120,000 secured against it.
 They had no savings or investments.
 He wanted to retire at 60 but would continue to work as long as he was fit.
 His reasons to look at transferring were the risk of the PPF and lack of trust.
Mr D also completed an attitude to risk assessment. The result was risk level six, but it was 
agreed that he would invest at risk level five, which was deemed Moderate.
A TVAS report was produced, based on retirement at 65 and 60. It projected full scheme 
pensions of £6,078 and £4,405 respectively, and corresponding critical yields of 7.32% and 
8.05%. Cashflow analysis showed that the equivalent income was projected to exhaust the 
fund at age 88 in both cases.
DCFL met with Mr D on 16 October 2017. A meeting note, which Mr D signed, stated that:
 he was confident in his to transfer, and was very reluctant to stay in the scheme;
 he planned to reduce his drawings at state pension age;
 he was contributing 6% to his employers DC scheme, with his employer contributing 
10%;
 he wanted to retire at 60, but would keep working as long as possible; and 
 he wanted to access benefits without penalty before normal retirement age.
Mr D applied for a personal pension that same day. DCFL subsequently produced a 
confirmation of advice letter. And Mr D initialled and signed a document listing a number of 
the risks of transferring confirming his understanding of them.
On 24 October 2017 DCFL produced a suitability report which made the following points, 
among others: 
 Transfers from defined benefit schemes were generally not a good idea except in 
exceptional circumstances.
 Mr Ds reasons for wishing to transfer were concerns over the future of the scheme, 
the PPF and loss of flexibility, benefits being cut further, the penalties applying at 60, 
and the inflexibility of death benefits.
 The critical yield was high, and unlikely to be achievable.
 He wasn't sure what income he might require in retirement.
The personal pension plan was recommended to meet Mr Ds objectives. At some point 
subsequently he completed a client questionnaire, on which he stated among other things 
that he believed the investment risk he had taken to be cautious DCFL added a note stating, 
'spoke to client 6/11/17 - he was unsure what to put here , but understands his moderate risk 
profile. In answer to the question 'In what way do you believe the product/s will meet with 
your objectives?' Mr D said, 'family security.
On 1 December 2017, after the scheme administrator had issued the ' time to choose' packs, 
DCFL advised Mr D to elect to transfer to BSPS2 as a precaution.
The transfer to the personal pension plan was completed in January 2018. 
Mr D complained to DCFL in November 2020. He said that he believed the advice had been 
unsuitable, and that it had caused him distress as well as financial loss.
DCFL responded setting out the reasons for Mr D wanting to transfer and concluded that the 
transfer had been suitable because it met those objectives.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. An investigator looked into Mr Ds concerns and upheld the complaint. He thought DCFL 
should pay compensation in line with the regulators redress methodology for unsuitable DB 
transfer advice as well as £300 for the distress caused. In summary he said he felt Mr D was 
always likely to be worse off as a result of transferring as the growth required to match the 
benefits available under the BSPS2 or the PPF was unlikely to be achieved based on his 
circumstances and attitude to risk. He also felt Mr D didnt have a genuine need to transfer 
and that the objectives of flexibility and control werent determinative given Mr Ds age at the 
time of advice and the number of years remaining to retirement. And the investigator felt 
DCFL shouldve done more to address any concerns Mr D had relating to his pension 
benefits  in particular regarding the PPF and the proposed BSPS2. As a result, the 
investigator felt that the advice wasnt in Mr Ds best interests and if suitable advice had 
been provided thought hed have ultimately moved his benefits to the BSPS2. 
DCFL didnt agree. It said the investigator had placed too much weight on the critical yields 
and discount rate and that these were unreliable and largely irrelevant as Mr D didnt intend 
to take an annuity. DCFL also said Mr D had made a fully informed decision to proceed with 
the transfer, which the investigator hadnt considered, and which it felt was crucial. It also 
maintained that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the time of the advice. And it didnt 
agree that Mr D wouldve acted differently, nor did it agree hed have accepted the possibility 
of the benefits transferring to the PPF. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed arguments and a lot of documentation to consider. And 
Id like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. If I 
dont comment on or refer to everything Ive been sent or that either party have said this isnt 
meant as a discourtesy or because I havent thought about it. Rather, it is because my 
decision will address what I consider to be the key issues in deciding what is fair and 
reasonable.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFLs actions here.
 PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
 PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
 The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is
unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate
that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator - the advice to transfer to a 
personal pension plan wasnt in Mr Ds best interests.  Had he been suitably advised I think 
he would have transferred to the BSPS2.
Financial viability
DCFL referred in its transfer analysis and suitability letter to critical yield rates. The critical
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits
as the DB scheme. In this case, DCFL used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the critical yield
comparisons, rather than the BSPS2. It implies this was because so little was known
about the BSPS2 scheme at the time. But I dont think this is right.  I think DCFL
should have waited a short time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring out.
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point,
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to
this one. Several weeks before DCFL advised Mr D, BSPS members had been told that if 
the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or 
into the PPF with the old scheme. The RAA was approved in August 2017. A newsletter was 
put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members and I think DCFL would 
have been following these events closely because it was advising many similar clients.
So, I think its reasonable to say that after mid-August 2017 DCFL should have waited for
these new details (BSPS2) to emerge as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer
an option. And so using the existing scheme, rather than the new one, to make comparisons
with, wasnt giving Mr D the best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do.
Ive also noted DCFLs comments about this services over reliance on critical yield rates in
general when assessing the suitability of pension transfers. While I understand the point 
being made, the critical yield is only a part of a range of different things which help
show how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth
for a transfer-out to become financially viable. I think its also fair to say that despite some
uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between the BSPS and
PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme.
Nevertheless, all DCFLs subsequent documentation  and the suitability letter in particular -
referred to comparisons between the BSPS and the merits of Mr D transferring out to a
personal pension plan. I think its also important to say that in making these comparisons,
DCFL itself acknowledged, during its advice, that the growth rates required to match the
benefits of Mr Ds existing pension scheme were high. It said, for example, the financial
benefits were unlikely to be matched, let alone exceeded, by transferring to a personal
pension arrangement. This is because in its suitability letter DCFL said, the critical yieldrequired is high and it would be very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to
match the benefits you are giving up.
DCFL explained the critical yield required to match his existing benefits in the BSPS at the
age of 65 was 7.32% and 8.05% based on retirement at the age of 60. I agree that these 
yields are high, and in my view, they should have shown DCFL that transferring Mr Ds DB 
scheme out to a personal pension plan was highly likely to produce lower pension benefits in 
the longer term.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
Mr D was 36 years old at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 60. The critical yield 
required to match Mr Ds benefits at age 60 was 8.05% if he took a full pension and 7.32% at 
age 65. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was 
quoted as 6.60% per year if Mr D took a full pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.6% per year for 24 years to retirement at age 60. As this is well below the 8.05% 
critical yield DCFL told Mr D was required from his personal pension at age 60, I think this 
shows Mr D was very unlikely to grow his personal pension by enough to get anywhere near 
the critical yield needed just to match his scheme benefits. 
However, Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. DCFL assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk 
as moderate, so I think a figure at around the mid-point of these projections was most 
relevant. And again, this was well below the critical yield figures for the BSPS, so I think this 
too showed that achieving the critical yield, year-on-year, upon transferring out just wasnt 
likely.
And its important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a 
personal pension would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr D 
giving up the guarantees available through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 7.32% (for 
retirement at age 65), I think Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. DCFL have said this comparison should rightfully be made against the 
benefits available if the scheme moved to the PPF. I dont consider that I need to make a 
finding on this point, as the critical yield needed to provide the benefits available under the 
PPF are also higher than reasonably expected growth.  
So, I think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, DCFLs figures as 
presented in its suitability letter and transfer analysis documents, showed that transferring to 
a personal pension plan would mean Mr D would receive lower pension benefits in the 
longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, DCFL should have waited and recalculated the comparisons for Mr D when the situation with BSPS2 became clear  
which we know this was imminent. 
That transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr D would receive lower pension
benefits in the longer term was supported by DCFLs own statements in the suitability letter,
which Ive referred to above. And I think its safe to say the same can be said broadly of the 
BSPS2 scheme, although we dont have corresponding analysis here to show it. And in fact, 
I note that in a letter dated 1 December 2017 DCFL said:
We have been advised by the British Steel Pension Scheme that they are now 
advising members who have applied to transfer their pension to return their Time to 
Choose Options letter as a precaution. They recommend that if you wish to transfer, 
you should choose to move to the New British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS 2). We 
are now informing all clients with an outstanding transfer to select this option and 
return their form before the deadline . 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as DCFL 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and other needs
In its suitability letter DCFL recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it 
said were Mr Ds objectives, including that Mr D felt the BSPS scheme was very inflexible in 
comparison to a personal arrangement. The ability to access tax free cash and to withdraw a 
flexible income from age 55 with no early retirement factors appealed to [Mr D].
DCFL have said that Mr D wanted the flexibility to take a variable income in retirement. 
However, I cant see that it was part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr D was only 
36 years old at the time of advice and from what Ive seen, he had no concrete plans for 
retirement at that point. Furthermore, I dont think DCFL promoted the additional income and 
flexibility Mr D would enjoy at retirement as a result of joining his employers new defined
contribution (DC) scheme. He had already accrued a not insignificant sum in this pension 
and both he and his employer would be contributing to this for at least another 20 years, 
even if retiring very early. In my view, he would have been in a good position: the DB 
pension (BSPS2) was guaranteed and index linked; and the DC pension had the added 
flexibility were his circumstances to change. I think this fitted in very well with Mr Ds likely 
financial needs going forward. DCFL failed to adequately account for this when advising him.
DCFL have also said that Mr D wants to retire early and while Ive no reason to doubt that  
Mr D might have genuinely hoped to do this, Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything 
more than something he aspired to do at that stage. But regardless, Mr D could have retired 
early as a member of the BSPS2 or the PPF.
So, even if I were to consider that Mr Ds retirement plans were more advanced than the
mere aspirations set out by DCFL - and he really did have a plan to retire early - I think 
DCFL should have more comprehensively assessed the possibility of achieving this goal 
whilst being a member of the BSPS2 or the PPF. As Ive said, DCFL chose to make all the
comparisons with the existing BSPS benefits rather than wait for information about BSPS2, 
which was becoming available; contrary to DCFLs arguments, details of BSPS2 were 
emerging at the time and early retirement with the PPF was already something that could be 
calculated.The suitability report said that there would be a 30% reduction in the scheme pension if you 
were to retire at age 55 and an 18% reduction at age 60. And it noted that Mr D was in good 
health and not planning to retire until at least age 60, but feel the penalties imposed for 
early retirement under BSPS are too high.
In my view, this was somewhat misleading and the way this was depicted shows the nature
of how the advice was pitched to Mr D at the time. In fact, retiring early was possible from
both the BSPS2 and the PPF and if actuarial reductions caused by accessing the pension
early was a genuine concern, then Mr D could have been advised to wait a little longer
before accessing his benefits under either scheme. If hed chosen to plan his retirement
under the DB scheme to, say, 60  still five years below the normal retirement age then this 
would have resulted in a far less reduction in the pension benefits.
So, I think DCFL portrayed early retirement from these types of schemes in a negative 
dimension despite the guarantees and benefits found in them.
DCFL also linked accessing the benefits early to Mr D paying off his mortgage. But again,
there was no real detail around this and certainly nothing to show why irreversibly exiting a
DB pension scheme was necessary to pay his mortgage off in Mr Ds circumstances.
The fact-find for example, shows his residential mortgage as having £120,000 outstanding
with 32 years remaining. But Mr D couldnt access his pension for almost 20 more years
anyway. And Ive seen nothing to show that his mortgage wasnt being reduced in the
normal way as it was shown as being a repayment type. So, by the very earliest Mr D could
access his pension (at 55), there would be far less owing on the mortgage. DCFL did not
assess what the outstanding amount would be or why he couldnt just continue to pay it
down as planned under the terms hed taken it out under.
In response to the investigators view, DCFL said that flexibility was worth more to Mr D than 
having a rigid set income for life. And that he wanted to take tax-free cash without having to 
take an income. But as Mr D had nearly 20 years before he could access his pension (at age 
55) I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr D to give up his 
guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr D 
later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme, for example to access tax free cash to 
repay his mortgage, he could have done so closer to retirement. 
DCFL also referred to Mr D being able to access the maximum tax-free cash via a personal
pension. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal
pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of
the two schemes are calculated differently. But DCFL should have been telling Mr D at the
time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from
the age of 55, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement
years would obviously decrease.
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing,
this needed to be considered against the other options Mr D faced, including opting for the
BSPS2. Again, I also come back to Mr Ds age at the time and the fact that these 
assumptions about what he would or wouldnt need when he retired, were effectively a
best guess at such a relatively early stage.
Therefore, I think Mr Ds circumstances were much more aligned to him retiring from a DB 
scheme in this case, such as BSPS2, and drawing this pension in the way it was originally 
intended. I think DCFLs advice should have reflected this.Death Benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCFL explored to what extent 
Mr D was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr D 
was married with one dependent child, and so the spouses/dependents pension provided 
by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to them if Mr D predeceased them. I dont think 
DCFL made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr D. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. 
And as the cashflow analysis shows there may not have been a large sum left anyway in a 
personal pension upon Mr Ds passing, particularly if he lived a long life. So I dont think the 
advice should have implied his wife / child would benefit more from a personal pension. In 
any event, DCFL should not have encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, it doesnt appear that DCFL took into account the fact that Mr D could have 
nominated someone as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this 
end, Mr D had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I cant be sure about the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. However,
at around 36 years old and apparently healthy, term life insurance may have been a 
reasonably affordable product if he really did want to leave a legacy for his loved ones.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ds desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr D was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr D  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme. And in my 
view, DCFLs statements about control over the funds are generic, and they dont explain 
how Mr Ds personal control would be in his best interests.
However, I do accept that its clear that Mr D, like many employees of his company, was 
concerned about his pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its 
plans for the scheme and DCFL said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative 
things about the PPF and DCFL said he could have more control over his pension fund.
So, its quite possible that Mr D was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFLs obligation to give Mr D an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Ds concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL
should have reassured Mr D that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he
thought. The income available to Mr D through the PPF would have still provided a
an income in retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this income by 
transferring out, given his ATR. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I 
dont think that these concerns should have led to DCFLs recommendation to Mr D to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But DCFL
wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role
was to really understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS. By transferring to a personal
pension, the evidence shows Mr D was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh
this. I think DCFL ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for
this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties at the time that BSPS2 was most likely going ahead. Mr D
still had several years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in
his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering
the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement.
By opting into the BSPS2, Mr D would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to.
Also, I think he would have wanted to consider a wifes pension and that it would be set at
50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was
taken at retirement (if Mr D chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
On this basis, I think DCFL should have advised Mr D to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered whether Mr D would have transferred to a personal pension in any event. I
accept that DCFL disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr D, and provided him with
a certain amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr D to transfer out, and I think he
relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme,
against DCFLs advice. I say this because Mr D asked DCFL for professional financial 
advice and he was not an experienced or knowledgeable investor. So, if DCFL had provided
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.Im also not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about the PPF were so great that he would
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his
best interests. So if DCFL had explained Mr D was also unlikely to exceed the benefits
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think DCFL should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd
been given suitable advice. So, DCFL should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. 
For clarity, Mr D has not retired. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement
age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.DCFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date DCFL receives notification of
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr D of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our
investigator recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr D by DCFL for what he
referred to as the upset and worry caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into
consideration all of the circumstances of this complaint, and I agree that DCFL should also 
pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely 
had an impact on his retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I now direct
DC Financial Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above,
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
DC Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require DC 
Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
DC Financial Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on DC Financial
Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
The loss assessment calculation should be provided to Representative A in an easy to 
understand format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman