DRN-2539081
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has increased the premiums for his private 
medical insurance policy above the level set out as a guaranteed loyalty bonus. Mr M also 
complains that the policy excess bonus structure he agreed to when taking out the policy 
was changed. 
What happened
Mr M held a private medical insurance policy, provided by Aviva. 
The policy was taken out in 1998, when Mr M was aged 27, on a full medical underwriting 
basis. Mr M says the key features which led him to choose that particular policy were the 
guaranteed loyalty bonus and the policy excess bonus structure. 
In 2019, Mr M complained to Aviva. He said his premiums were higher than what they 
should be under the guaranteed loyalty bonus, and that the excess bonus structure hed 
agreed to had been replaced. Mr M provided Aviva with various quotes demonstrating that 
both a 27-year old male and a male of the age Mr M was in 2019 could obtain a private 
medical insurance policy at a cheaper price. Mr M also pointed out hed never made a claim 
under his insurance policy.
Aviva sent Mr M a final response letter about his complaint, explaining how the guaranteed 
loyalty bonus worked. Aviva said the price increases to Mr Ms policy during the time that 
records were available fell broadly in line with those experienced by other customers who 
held the same product. Aviva explained the policy excess bonus structure had changed in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, and Mr M had been sent information 
about this previously. Finally, Aviva said the alternative quotes Mr M had provided werent 
for comparable policies, but that Mr M could change to one of these policies if he so wished. 
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think Aviva had acted 
unreasonably. Mr M didnt agree with our investigators opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mr M purchased with Aviva in 1998 is an annually renewable one. This means the 
contract between Mr M and Aviva lasts for one year at a time, and both parties have the 
option to renew the policy at the end of each year. Aviva has no obligation to continue to 
offer the policy on an ongoing basis and Aviva also has the right to change the terms and 
conditions of the policy at each renewal date, so long as it notifies the policyholder in 
advance. So, there was no guarantee the contract Mr M entered into with Aviva in 1998 
would continue on the same terms indefinitely. 
The excess bonus structure which originally applied to Mr Ms policy changed a number of 
times during the period Mr M held the insurance. The original excess bonus structure was 
still in place in 2007, as I can see Mr Ms excess was reduced to zero at that time. Aviva has 
provided evidence to show it informed Mr M that the way the excess bonus structure worked 
was changing from the January 2016 policy renewal. I understand Mr M says the excess 
bonus structure as it was in 1998 was one of the driving factors in him purchasing the policy, 
but Aviva acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy when making these 
changes. Aviva told us it made this change in the interests of fairness to all its customers, so 
that every customer had a corresponding level of excess discount. I appreciate Mr M may 
have wanted the excess bonus structure to stay the same, but I dont think Aviva acted 
unreasonably by making these changes. 
Turning to Mr Ms complaint about the guaranteed loyalty bonus, the terms and conditions of 
his policy say:
For as long as the policy remains in force and the premium applied to each insured 
person is paid, each insured person will be charged the premium applicable to new 
entrants in the age band applied to the insured person at their date of entry.
This loyalty bonus applied when Mr M took out the policy in 1998 and continued to apply at 
each policy renewal. The loyalty bonus meant Mr M was guaranteed to pay the yearly 
premium a new policyholder aged 27 years would have been charged for the same policy.
Insurers are entitled to decide the cost of the insurance they provide, based on their view of 
the risk they are taking on. In doing this, insurers take into account factors such as claims 
profiles, the cost of private medical treatment and the cost of running their own commercial 
operations. Insurers will typically revisit and reassess the price they charge for taking on the 
risk every year, using up-to-date information. So, its Avivas decision what price it sets for 
the insurance it provides. 
I dont have the power to tell an insurer what its insurance should cost. That would mean Id 
be, in effect, telling an insurer how it should run its commercial operations and thats not my 
role. Instead, my role is to assess the information Ive been provided with to decide if I think 
Aviva has applied its view of risk consistently and fairly to Mr M. So, Ive considered whether 
I think Aviva has made any mistake in how it calculated Mr Ms premium (based on Avivas 
own criteria) and whether I think Aviva treated Mr M in the same way as other policyholders 
in a similar position to him. 
Aviva has been unable to provide any records of the premiums Mr M paid for his policy prior 
to around 2013  but, for the most part, its the premiums charged since then that are in 
dispute. Aviva has explained the premiums for this policy were subject to a rate review every 
year since 2013. The same rate review was applied to all policyholders, regardless of their 
age and the rate review was set at a broadly similar percentage every year other than in 
2016  when the adjustment to Mr Ms excess was taken into account within the rate review. 
Aviva has provided evidence that Mr Ms increasing age had no impact on the premium he 
was charged. So, Im satisfied Mr M was being charged the same premium which a new 27-
year old policyholder would have paid for the same product. 
As Mr M has correctly pointed out, Aviva is no longer offering this policy to new entrants. Ive 
seen evidence that policyholders were sent information about changes to the policy in 
November 2013 which said;
Although the 2013policy did not accept any new entrants we continued to 
calculate a new entrant rate for the purposes of applying the guaranteed loyalty bonus. We will continue to adopt this approach, of calculating a notional new entrant 
rate to enable the guaranteed loyalty bonus to operate, even though we do not have 
any plans to reopen thepolicies to new entrants.  
 
I understand Mr M disagrees with what Aviva has done in this regard. He believes Aviva is 
side-stepping the guaranteed loyalty bonus by stopping new entrants to the policy and is 
setting arbitrary, unrealistic levels of premiums that it would charge a 27-year old new 
entrant in order to encourage existing policyholders to leave the scheme so it can be shut 
down. Ive taken into account everything Mr M has said but, ultimately, Aviva is entitled to 
decide what policies it wants to offer on the market and Aviva has demonstrated it applied 
the same criteria to similar policyholders in the same way. Mr M had the option to purchase 
a different Aviva insurance product or to move to a new provider, which I understand he has 
now done. I appreciate Mr M never made any claims under his policy with Aviva and the 
policy may not have operated in the way he expected it to, but based on the evidence Ive 
seen, Aviva hasnt acted unfairly. 
Ive considered the alternative quotes which Mr M found online, as well as what he has said 
about the premiums being charged by his new private medical insurance provider. But not 
every private medical insurance policy is the same  some policies are underwritten on a 
moratorium basis and these may cost less than a fully underwritten medical insurance policy 
of the type Mr M held with Aviva. The available benefits, and the level of these benefits, 
generally also vary significantly between policies. Avivas guaranteed loyalty bonus applied 
only to the specific policy Mr M held and not to other policies with different features. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I wont be asking Aviva to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman