DRN-2566524
The complaint
Mrs C complains she hasnt received any benefits from her pension administered through 
Phoenix Life Limited.
What happened
Mrs C was a member of an executive pension plan administered through Phoenix Life. The 
plan became paid up in 1988 and was eventually closed with a nil value in 1996.
Mrs C considers there must have been something payable from the plan, even after it 
became paid up. Phoenix Life explained there was no further value in the plan, but it paid 
£100 because it had been slow to deal with Mrs Cs complaint.
Our investigator didnt consider the complaint should be upheld. When the plan became paid 
up, the administrators at the time told Mrs C that units would continue to be deducted to 
cover administration costs. The value of the fund was relatively small when it became paid 
up, but the investigator considered it likely there had been some investment growth because 
money remained in the fund until it was closed in 1996.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions so the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator gave an accurate summary of what has happened here, and I have little to 
add to what has already been said.
Contributions to Mrs Cs pension plan started in 1986 and ended in 1988 when it became 
paid up. But even though contributions stopped, the plan still had to be administered and 
there wouldve been a charge for that.
Mrs C had been told that units would be deducted from the policy to cover the administration 
costs. By 1996 there wasnt enough money available in the fund to cover the administration 
costs, and the policy was closed.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mrs C, but from what Ive seen Im satisfied that the 
fund charge was properly applied to cover administration costs after the policy became paid 
up. 
Phoenix Life has offered £100 for poor complaint handling, which Mrs C may want to 
consider accepting. As complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated activity, I wouldnt in any 
case be able to recommend any amount in excess of this. I wont be asking Phoenix Life to 
do anything else.
In closing, and although my understanding is that Mrs C isnt complaining about the initial 
sale of the policy (so the advice to establish it  if indeed any was given) I think it might be 
worth pointing out that charges for executive pension plans tended, at least historically, to be 
higher than those for, say, personal pension plans.
So if Mrs C does have concerns about any advice given to her to establish this policy, I 
would recommend that she pursue this with the business which may have provided that 
advice.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman