DRN-3752903
The complaint
Mr Fs representative has complained, on his behalf, that Portal Financial Services LLP 
unsuitably advised him to transfer his pension funds from his existing Group Personal 
Pension (GPP) to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), within which its said his pension 
funds were subsequently unsuitably invested.
What happened
Portal hasnt submitted either a response to Mr Fs initial complaint, nor any file relating to 
the matter, and so this decision is based upon the evidence and information available to me.
But my understanding is that, in 2013, Portal contacted Mr F to offer him a review of his 
pension arrangements, which he accepted. At that time, he was 54 years old, earning 
between £25,000 and £50,000 pa as a company director. Mr F was single, and according to 
his representative, had no prior investment experience or knowledge of pension matters. 
The representative has also said that Mr F had a low capacity for loss and a low attitude to 
risk.
Mr F had held a GPP with Standard Life since 1994 and had last contributed to it in 1996. It 
also received benefits in respect of Mr F having been contracted out of the second state 
pension, and was invested entirely within a with profits fund.
In terms of charges, the plan had a 0.5% pa service charge, and at the time of the transfer in 
2014, it had a value of just under £15,000.
In September 2013, Portal sought information relating to the plan, and the transfer of the 
pension funds completed to Novia Client Services, the SIPP administrator, in mid-January 
2014  with a value of £14,698.
An initial adviser charge of 5% of the fund value  amounting to £735  was deducted, along 
with an ongoing adviser charge of 1% pa of the fund and a product charge of 0.5% pa.
The pension funds were reinvested into a range of investments as follows in April 2014:
Marbella Resort Spa - £2,300
Lakeview UK Invest - £1,800
Motion Picture Global - £1,100
Strategic Residential Development - £1,800
Real Estate Investment USA - £2,500
Premier MA Income and Growth Account - £698
Invesco Managed Income - £698
Schroder Multi Manager Portfolio Account - £698
LF Rufer European Account - £698
Cash  remainder
A second SIPP was established in November 2015 with funds of around £5,500 taken from 
the latter four investments above in the first SIPP. They were invested in the following funds:
Dimensional World Equity Account - £4,474
Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond Acc - £263
Cash  remainder
In January 2020, Mr Fs representative complained on his behalf, saying that Mr F had 
suffered a loss of around £3,200 due to the unsuitable advice given to him by Portal. But 
Portal responded saying that it wouldnt engage with the representative as it didnt consider 
that it had the correct regulatory permissions.
Dissatisfied with the response, the representative referred the complaint to this service in 
March 2020. Following this, Mr F received an update on his pension investments as at 
November 2021. The SIPP provider confirmed that the investments which remained in the 
first SIPP were largely illiquid as many of the underlying loans within them had defaulted. 
The SIPP provider also confirmed that those particular assets werent due to mature until 
between 2019 and 2021, and so had effectively been illiquid from the outset. 
One of our investigators considered the matter, and she thought the complaint should be 
upheld. She said the following in summary:
Shed spoken to Mr F, whod confirmed that he had no investment experience or 
expertise, and hadnt sought the services of Portal. Rather, it had cold called him to 
offer the review of his pension.
Mr F had also said that he wasnt aware of any ongoing service from Portal, that he 
hadnt retired and didnt have an expected retirement date yet.
Portal needed to ensure that it provided Mr F with a suitable recommendation, in line 
with the requirement of COBS 9.2.1 R (1) within the regulators handbook. But Portal 
hadnt provided any documentation to support the position that steps had been taken to 
ensure the advice had been suitable.
The regulator had issued a report in 2008 entitled quality of advice on pension 
switching and it gave examples of what it considered would constitute unsuitable 
advice. One of these was a more expensive replacement policy when the existing plan 
would have met the customers needs. A further example was a plan which incurred 
extra product costs for no good reason.
The investigator said that the replacement plan was more expensive, carrying an 
additional charge of at least 1% pa and an initial advice fee of 5%. The new plan 
therefore needed to grow by over £700 just to bring it back to parity with the old plan, 
and would then need to exceed the performance of the old plan by at least 1% pa to 
match its value.
However, the investigator hadnt seen any indication that the replacement investments 
would provide that value. That the investments had been illiquid from the beginning was 
of further concern to the investigator, and they also lacked the diversification of the with 
profits fund. They further appeared to carry a substantially higher level of risk, which 
wasnt aligned with Mr Fs investment experience or knowledge. Although Mr F was 
unsure of his retirement age, the normal retirement date of the GPP was five years 
away. However, the underlying investments in the SIPP had maturity dates which were 
as along as seven years hence.
Mr F had been cold called and was heavily reliant on the advice given to him by Portal. 
But the new plan was more expensive, and Mr F had no need of any additional features 
the SIPP may have provided. There was limited potential for the replacement plan to be of benefit to Mr F, given the costs involved, the illiquid nature of much of the 
investments, and the size of Mr Fs pension fund. And these concerns were borne out 
by the eventual failure of the investments.
In conclusion, the investigator said that Portal should compare the performance of Mr Fs 
replacement pension arrangements with one of our benchmark indices, and if there was a 
loss this should be paid into Mr Fs SIPP. If this wasnt possible, the amount should be paid 
directly to Mr F, but with an appropriate deduction for income tax which would be payable 
when accessing the pension benefits.
As it was unlikely that the SIPP could be closed due to the illiquid investments, the 
investigator further said that five years SIPP fees should be paid to Mr F to allow an 
appropriate amount of time for the investments and SIPP to be wound up.
She also said that Portal should pay Mr F an additional sum of £200 in respect of the 
distress the loss of his pension funds would have caused him.
Mr Fs representative agreed with the proposal, but Portal didnt, saying the following in 
summary:
It reiterated its view that Mr Fs representative didnt have the required permissions to 
represent him in the matter. It therefore strongly disapproved of its involvement in the 
complaint and said that it had raised issues in this regard with the regulator.
When Mr F had a discussion with Portal in 2013 during a fact find appointment, he 
requested a review of his GPP  an occupational pension scheme  and his objectives 
were consolidation, investment flexibility and performance.
The proposed SIPP had a more transparent 0.5% wrapper charge than the implicitly 
charged with profits plan.
It was low cost and stakeholder friendly, which meant that mainstream pooled funds 
could be held for 0.8% pa, representing the annual wrapper charge and the fund 
charges. This was very competitive at the time and well below the pricing cap for 
stakeholder products.
The SIPP allowed Mr F to withdraw tax free cash without needing to take an income 
and the cost of this feature was just £75. This facility wouldnt have been available with 
a stakeholder plan.
The SIPP in question was one of Portals  which it described as a pension release 
service - core products at the time, which broadly met its clients commonality of 
needs, and had a low base cost and a range of additional features which could be 
accessed as required.
The alternative which the investigator had suggested as being more appropriate for Mr 
F was precisely the kind of plan represented by the SIPP. It was a competitively 
charged personal pension which offered drawdown and a range of funds offering 
diversified investments.
The GPP with profits fund had increased by 3.3% over the previous five years and 
Portals adviser thought that this could be improved upon when considering Mr Fs 
attitude to risk and term to retirement.
The 1% annual management fee was an optional service for Mr F and was intended to expand upon the growth of his plan with regular reviews and rebalancing where 
required. The charge would also include facilitating withdrawals form the plan and 
providing advice where required. That charge shouldnt therefore be included in any 
comparison with the ceding scheme charges.
Portal requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman, and so it was passed to me 
for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 September 2022, setting out why I thought that the 
complaint should be upheld. My findings from that decision are set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons.
My first observation is that, even in response to the investigators adjudication, Portal hasnt, 
to my knowledge, submitted any point of sale documentation which might support on a 
contemporaneous basis the stated rationale for transferring. Ive noted its comments about 
the permissions of Mr Fs representative, but irrespective of Mr Fs chosen representative, 
the matter Im considering here is Mr Fs complaint  an eligible complainant in his own right. 
And so, even if Portal considers that it needs to correspond directly with Mr F, and/or needs 
to refer the matter of the representatives permissions to the regulator, it still needs to 
cooperate with our enquiries about Mr Fs complaint. 
Unfortunately, it hasnt done so, and its therefore difficult to know several things here, such 
as Mr Fs actual recorded attitude to risk at the time, along with what was recorded about his 
investment experience, circumstances and objectives for the future.
Theres also no detail relating to other pension assets which Mr F may have had, but Ive 
assumed, given that no reference has been made to anything beyond the GPP/SIPP, that Mr 
F had no other pension assets.
On that basis, a private pension fund of around £15,000 might reasonably be described as 
quite modest for an individual in their mid-fifties, and I can understand why Mr F might have 
been seeking to maximise the growth potential in the years left until retirement. And Ive 
noted Portals comment about the performance of the with profits fund over the previous five 
years. In that particular regard, due to a reassessment of the underlying assets in with profits 
funds following the financial crisis of 2008/09, fund managers have broadly reduced the 
equity content of such funds to minimise the associated volatility and facilitate the 
smoothing effect on returns within such funds.
I also acknowledge what Portal has said about the costs associated with the SIPP, and I 
agree that the actual ongoing cost of the plan itself, for the sake of enhanced growth beyond 
the approximate 0.6% pa of the with profits fund, wouldnt seem particularly untoward, 
meeting as it did the stakeholder standard. 
But even taking into account a quite feasible desire to improve on the performance 
experienced by the with profits fund, care still needed to be taken with Mr Fs pension funds. 
After all, if this was the total of Mr Fs private provision, he could ill afford to see it reduce in 
value. And so I agree with the investigator that, on the face of it, Mr F is likely to have had a 
low capacity for loss.
Its therefore the chosen investments themselves where I think the advice provided by Portal exhibits significant failings, and I also note that theres an absence of commentary relating to 
this in its response to the investigators view. To recap, approximately two thirds of Mr Fs 
pension fund was invested in non-mainstream products, with which he would have had no 
prior experience, would be highly prone to liquidity issues, and were based overseas, with 
the attendant exchange rate risks. Its difficult to be certain on this without seeing 
contemporaneous descriptions, but they seem to bear the hallmarks of unregulated 
collective investment schemes (UCIS), which shouldnt have been promoted to an individual 
such as Mr F in the first place.
Those investments appear to have now failed, which is unfortunately an all too common 
feature of such products. And this will have had the effect of markedly reducing his available 
pension fund  precisely the opposite of what Mr F needed. 
Alternative mainstream investments may not have had the potential to achieve the returns 
which are thought to be associated with the elevated risks presented by such investments, 
but they also dont tend to have the kind of catastrophic results which Mr F will have 
experienced here. 
As such, my view is that, even if it could be argued that a transfer from the with profits 
investment environment was a suitable course of action, the bulk of the replacement 
investments werent, by any fair or reasonable assessment, a suitable recommendation for 
someone like Mr F.
And so my current view is that Mr F needs to be compensated for that. But as Ive alluded to 
above, determining the actual suitable course of action for Mr F isnt straightforward. The 
investigator suggested a comparison with one of our benchmarks, which would reflect a 
situation of Mr F moving away from the with profits fund. And given its historic performance, I 
think thats a reasonable proposition.
But it's likely that Mr F could have remained in the GPP, with its lower than average cost 
structure likely due to the economies of scale in administering such arrangements, and 
simply switched to a fund which might offer enhanced performance  a balanced managed 
fund seems to be a reasonable proposition, given the length of time to Mr Fs normal 
retirement date within the GPP, but I invite any commentary on this in response to this 
provisional decision.
And although Portal has emphasised the stakeholder-compliant charging structure of the 
SIPP, as far as I can tell the GPP would still have been the more cost effective of the 
available options  an important aspect when bearing in mind the size of Mr Fs pension 
fund. Furthermore, the need for any features such as flexi access drawdown, if indeed 
required, could have been assessed either at, or closer to, Mr Fs actual retirement. 
Therefore, on a fair and reasonable basis I think that a beneficial switch within the GPP was 
the suitable course of action here. But I also think its fair to say that this might only have 
been proposed as a result of the advice process itself, and for that I think Portal could 
appropriately have charged its initial advice fee, if indeed it undertook the fact finding its said 
occurred, and a proper advice process took place. 
But as to the 1% pa which would also be charged for the ongoing servicing, Mr F has said 
that he recalls receiving no such ongoing service, and other than observing that this was a 
service which could have been provided to Mr F, Portal itself has provided no supporting 
evidence that such a service was in fact provided to Mr F. 
Overall, therefore, my current view is that a fund switch would have been a suitable course 
of action, but that Mr F could have achieved this within his existing GPP at a lower overall cost. 
Putting things right
In the event that my view on this remains the same, Portal should undertake a comparison 
between the value, as at the date of any final decision along these lines, of the SIPP and the 
notional value of the GPP had Mr F switched into a balanced managed fund offered by 
Standard Life within that arrangement. As Ive said above, I invite commentary as to which 
fund available at that time within the GPP ought to have been used. Alternatively, if I receive 
evidence that it wasnt in fact possible to switch funds within the GPP, I may revisit my 
conclusions on this.
If, as at the date of the calculation, any aspect of Mr Fs SIPP portfolio is illiquid, it should be 
apportioned a nil value. Portal may, if it wishes, take ownership of the investments if 
possible, or otherwise enter into an agreement, arranged at its expense, that Mr F will pay to 
it any distributions he receives in future from those investments.
If the notional value of Mr Fs GPP would have been higher than that of the SIPP portfolio, 
Portal should pay into Mr Fs SIPP so that its made up to the same value, taking into 
account any available tax relief, charges for doing so, annual allowance issues, and any 
protections which Mr F may have in place.
If its not possible to pay into the SIPP or conflicts with any allowances or protections, Portal 
should pay the loss amount directly to Mr F. But it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt an actual payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of 
the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. As with the investigator, I think its 
reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, so 
the reduction would equal 20%. However, Mr F would have been able to take a tax-
free lump sum, and so the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Portal should also pay to Mr F five years SIPP fees, calculated using the fee in the 
previous year to date, which should reasonably provide enough time for the illiquid 
investments, and so the SIPP, to be wound up/closed.
As also proposed by the investigator, Portal should pay to Mr F the sum of £200 in respect 
of the distress the marked reduction in his pension funds caused by the unsuitable 
investments will have caused him.
Neither party has submitted any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My view remains the same as that set out in the provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons.Putting things right
Portal Financial Services LLP should undertake a comparison between the value, as at the 
date of this final decision, of the SIPP and the notional value of the GPP had Mr F switched 
into a balanced managed fund offered by Standard Life within that arrangement. 
If, as at the date of the calculation, any aspect of Mr Fs SIPP portfolio is illiquid, it should be 
apportioned a nil value. Portal Financial Services LLP may, if it wishes, take ownership of 
the investments if possible, or otherwise enter into an agreement, arranged at its expense, 
that Mr F will pay to it any distributions he receives in future from those investments.
If the notional value of Mr Fs GPP would have been higher than that of the SIPP portfolio, 
Portal Financial Services LLP should pay into Mr Fs SIPP so that its made up to the same 
value, taking into account a deduction for the initial advice fee which was charged, any 
available tax relief, charges for doing so (which Portal Financial Services LLP must meet), 
annual allowance issues, and any protections which Mr F may have in place.
If its not possible to pay into the SIPP or conflicts with any allowances or protections, Portal 
Financial Services LLP should pay the loss amount directly to Mr F. But it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt an actual payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr 
F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. As with the investigator, I think its 
reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, so 
the reduction would equal 20%. However, Mr F would have been able to take a tax-
free lump sum, and so the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Portal Financial Services LLP should also pay to Mr F five years SIPP fees, 
calculated using the fee in the previous year to date, which should reasonably 
provide enough time for the illiquid investments, and so the SIPP, to be wound 
up/closed.
Payment should be made within 28 days of Portal Financial Services LLP being 
notified of Mr Fs acceptance of the final decision. If its not, Portal Financial Services 
LLP should add interest to the award at 8% simple pa from the date of this decision 
to the date of settlement.
As also proposed by the investigator, Portal Financial Services LLP should pay to Mr F the 
sum of £200 in respect of the distress the marked reduction in his pension funds caused by 
the unsuitable investments will have caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman