DRN-3749623
The complaint
Ms Bs complained that Investor Compensation (UK) Ltd (IC) invoiced her for recovering a 
refund of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI), when Ms B had pursued her claim 
without their assistance.
What happened
In summer 2019, Ms B contacted IC about recovering PPI she believed shed paid in relation 
to credit card accounts.  She completed forms detailing the claims she believed she may 
have.  And she told IC that shed previously submitted a claim for a refund to a financial 
institution Ill call L.
Ms B says she heard nothing from IC and was concerned about the upcoming PPI deadline 
of 29 August 2019.  So she wrote to IC in August 2019 advising them she no longer wanted 
to use their services.
Despite this, Ms B says she received repeated messages telling her IC had submitted a 
claim on her behalf  but without explaining who to.  Towards the end of August 2019, Ms B 
received a refund of £1,412.49 from L.  She then received an invoice from IC for their fee.
Ms B complained to IC that no fee was due because the refund shed received from L was 
the result of her own application  not their work.  However, she offered to make a part 
payment of £150.  IC didnt respond to her complaint.  So Ms B brought it to our service.
Our investigator contacted IC, asking them to provide their business file and response to the 
issues Ms B had raised.  IC didnt respond.  So the investigator based his conclusions on the 
information Ms B provided.
He said Ms B had evidenced that shed made a claim to L herself before contacting IC.  And 
he was satisfied it was this claim which resulted in the payment to her in August 2019.  He 
noted that Ms B had written to IC cancelling their agreement at around the same time and IC 
hadnt provided any documents which showed they were entitled to charge her a fee.  So he 
thought it was fair that IC refund Ms B the £150 shed paid them  and pay her £100 
compensation for the distress theyd caused her by pursuing a fee theyd not shown was 
due.
In response to the investigator, Ms B confirmed shed hadnt been able to make the payment 
of £150.  IC asked for an extension of time to comment but failed to do so by the deadline 
given.  So Ive now been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive not seen any information from IC.  So Ive had to base my decision 
on the information from Ms B.  Im satisfied its fair to do that, because IC have been given 
opportunities to provide information during the investigation.  But theyve only contacted us 
once, to request an extension of time to respond to the investigators view.  And they failed 
to do so by the deadline given.
I can see from the copy documents Ms B sent us that she pursued a claim with L before she 
contacted IC.  And Ive noted she received a payment the same month IC were telling her 
they were still assessing whether she had a claim.  So, in the absence of anything from IC to 
persuade me otherwise, Im satisfied the most likely position is that the payment was the 
result of Ms Bs own work, not ICs.  And that means I dont think they were entitled to 
charge her a fee.  
Putting things right
Because IC havent demonstrated theyre entitled to charge Ms B a fee, I think they should 
cancel the invoice they sent her in relation to the claim against L.  As she told us she didnt 
actually make any payment, I dont think they need to refund Ms B any money.  But IC 
should pay her the £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she was caused 
by being pursued for fees they didnt show were due. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint about Investor 
Compensation (UK) Ltd and directing IC to pay her £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman