DRN-3679895
The complaint
Miss H has complained that American International Group UK Ltd failed to repair or replace  
her device in a reasonable amount of time, and provided poor customer service. 
What happened
Miss H contacted AIG in September 2021 about an issue with her phone as she held a 
policy with them. 
AIG arranged for their repairer to assess and repair the phone. After the repair the phone 
developed a further fault. Miss H says that the fault was caused by the parts used by the 
repairer. 
She raised a complaint and another tech consultant came to have a look the phone and told 
her it was unrepairable. 
Miss H asked AIG for a replacement, and AIG said they would need to look into it, and 
eventually issued a replacement in January 2022 but Miss H says their contact was poor. 
Miss H complained and AIG partially upheld her complaint in May 2022, acknowledging that 
there was a delay in her claim being dealt with due to the first repair being faulty and they 
offered £20 compensation. 
Miss H was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. While the 
complaint has been with our service, AIG offered to replace the phone with no excess fee 
and have offered additional compensation of £205. I understand the phone has now been 
replaced.
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Hs complaint and thought AIG had made a fair 
offer.   
  
Miss H disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
AIG have accepted that they have delayed in dealing with Miss Hs complaint, and they have 
also agreed that they should have replaced the handset from the outset rather than trying to 
repair it. 
I can see that following the faulty repairs, an exchange of the device was authorised on 24 
December 2021 but couldnt be undertaken until 29 January 2022 because Miss H didnt 
have the original phone to hand to exchange. So, there was around 3 months of delay 
caused by AIG and their repairers in getting the replacement authorised.  
The new device was then delivered 2022 and Miss H raised a further complaint about this on 
12 February 2022 about the camera lens. She was advised by AIG that she needed to raise 
a separate complaint about the new fault.  AIG now accept that as this advice was incorrect 
as the report was made within 14 days of delivery, and so a swap should have been 
arranged straight away but wasnt. So, they have offered an additional £205 compensation 
for this issue as well as the offer to replace the phone with no excess.     
A replacement device has now been issued, which I understand was an upgrade as Miss Hs 
device was not in stock. 
I can see that this whole situation was frustrating for Miss H and she was without a fully 
working phone for significant periods of time. However, I do think the offer of £205 additional 
compensation is fair for the distress and inconvenience suffered, as well as replacing the 
phone free of excess. 
Putting things right
I think that AIG should pay the £205 compensation that they have offered to Miss H. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct American International Group UK Ltd to 
out things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman