DRN-2565355
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs R. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1998, alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs R was sold the policy when she applied for the account in the shop.  
According to the records, Mrs R was charged £27.79 in total premiums during the period she 
had the account. A refund of this amount (with interest) is what she is now seeking through 
this complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs R and her representatives have said, but Ive decided not to uphold 
her complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs Rs representatives have said that the important issue is what happened at the point of 
sale. I agree  and Im satisfied this is what the adjudicator looked at, and it is what Ive now 
assessed in my fresh review of the evidence and arguments. 
Mrs R has said she wasnt aware of the PPI being added. However, on the account-
application form that Mrs R signed, there is a tick in the box next to the words that say Yes, 
I want my account covered by Payment and Purchase Protection Insurance. So this does 
support a view that the PPI was presented as a choice. 
If Mrs R is saying that it wasnt her who ticked this, it would be difficult fairly to uphold her 
complaint simply on a current recollection of what happened about 22 years ago. Over such 
a long period, its likely that accurate memories about details will have faded. Instead there 
would need to be reasonable supporting evidence that someone else ticked the box without 
her agreement  and I dont have such evidence. I realise it would be very difficult for Mrs R 
to find this evidence now.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Rs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs R to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mrs R clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mrs R. In such a situation, I need to assess whether its likely that better information 
would have changed Mrs Rs decision to take PPI (assuming she did agree to it, which I 
accept she is saying she didnt). I cant be sure, but I think its unlikely it would have made a 
difference:
The potential sickness and unemployment benefits could have proved useful, 
especially as she wasnt entitled to employees sick pay or redundancy benefit. So 
shes likely to have needed to fall back on savings very quickly to cover her basic 
living costs, if shed lost her self-employed income. 
Although this was a long time ago, and not all records have survived, we have built 
up knowledge about normal costs and terms and conditions in such cases. Even 
taking the highest likely cost, compared to the level of benefits, its unlikely that fuller 
information, about costs and limitations, would have altered significantly how useful 
the benefits seemed. And I dont see evidence that the significant exclusions would 
have affected Mrs R.  
Mrs Rs representatives have, though, said that shed have had difficulty claiming 
successfully; this is because she was self-employed, and especially as she lived in 
her place of work. But I dont see that she would really have found it especially 
difficult. I know some PPI policies did make things difficult for self-employed people. 
But Ive looked at the wording of this policy; and, compared to an employed person 
being made redundant, it didnt make it particularly difficult for Mrs R to claim if her 
business dried up and she had to stop trading. And, if she was too ill to work for a 
period, she could still potentially have made a claim, presumably with the usual 
medical evidence. 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman