DRN-4080593
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the quality of a car he acquired using finance from STARTLINE 
MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline)
What happened
In October 2022, Mr T entered into a finance agreement with Startline, for a used car. It was 
around six years old, and had just under 65,000 miles on the clock.
In November 2022, Mr T contacted Startline, to say the car had developed faults, and a 
recovery service had needed to attend. He said he wanted to reject the car.
In late January 2023, Startline responded. It said there was no evidence the car was faulty 
when it was supplied. Mr T then brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He noted that Mr T had been 
supplied with a car that was around six years old and had travelled 64,874 miles when it was 
supplied. And the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it had been supplied 
new. So, it would be fair to expect that parts of the car might have already suffered some 
wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need repair and/or maintenance 
sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
Our investigator looked at the report carried out at the request of the supplying dealership, 
which was conducted in January 2023. This said the issue may be contaminated fuel. 
However, our investigator was satisfied that no chemical testing was carried out, so there 
was no evidence to support this theory. Another theory presented was there may be faulty 
fuel injectors.
Overall, our investigator thought it fair that the car should fairly be rejected. Mr T reported 
faults within three weeks  and, that Mr T had only been able to drive the car 122 miles 
between November 2002 and mid-February 2023. So, Mr T should get a refund for the 
payments he has made during this time  and continues to.
Our investigator also thought it was clear Mr T had suffered considerable stress, including 
needing medical help. He thought Startline should pay £100 compensation in recognition of 
this. 
Further, Mr T incurred costs of £72 (on 29 November 2022) and £48 (on 14 February 2023), 
for diagnostic tests. Our investigator thought it fair these be reimbursed, as they flowed from 
the car being faulty.
Mr T also asked that his car rental costs  for the period hed hired a car, due to the faults 
with the financed car  be reimbursed. Specifically, this was the period of 5 November to 17 
December 2022. These costs were around double the amount of Mr Ts monthly instalments. 
So, our investigator thought about whether Mr T should be refunded his instalments  or, the 
hire costs. It wouldnt be fair to have both, as hed have needed to pay to stay mobile, so it 
would be one or the other. Overall, he thought it fair to reimburse the hire costs, as he felt Mr 
T had been reasonable in incurring these, so shouldnt be out of pocket.
Our investigator could also see that Mr T has suffered distress and inconvenience, and 
thought £100 compensation was fair to reflect this.
Mr Ts complaint was later passed to another investigator at our service. She recommended 
that Mr T should also be paid for any fee incurred for transferring his insurance to another 
vehicle (or cancelling it). To be clear, this is the admin fee, not any increase in premiums.
Startline disagreed. It felt that the car rental costs were excessive, and the finance 
agreement states that Startline wont be responsible for any costs due to the vehicle being 
offroad, for any reason.
The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree the complaint should be upheld, for the reasons our investigators 
gave. Ill explain why.
On balance, Im satisfied the cars faulty. Mr T was supplied with the car in the October. By 
only the beginning of November, he needed to call a breakdown service. The report details:
White smoke from exhaust intermittent in the beginning now constant. Smells un 
burnt diesel/combustion gases. No DTC recorded, visual checks all ok. Garage to 
investigate, vehicle not able to be driven.
There was then an inspection later that month, on 29 November, which Mr T paid for. This 
suggested a fault with the injectors, and raised concerns about the noise from the turbo.
I have seen no evidence whatsoever of mis-fuelling.
Given that these issues happened so soon after Mr T took possession of the car, it seems 
fair that Startline should show these issues werent present, or developing, at the point of 
supply. Or, that they were natural wear and tear, commensurate with the age/mileage of the 
vehicle. It hasnt provided any persuasive evidence of either of these possibilities.
Accordingly, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr Ts car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply, and rejection is reasonable, given how soon the problems manifested. This 
means a refund of the deposit, plus any negative records of the agreement (if there are any), 
being removed from his credit file(s).
I agree with our investigator that, instead of receiving a refund of his monthly instalments for 
the period the car was off the road, its fairer to award the hire costs. Startline says they are 
excessive. I disagree. Theyre very much in line with the market, from standard rental 
companies. If anything, Mr T mitigated his losses, as it seems his hire car may have been of 
inferior spec to his financed vehicle.
Startline has also said that its T&Cs dont require it to cover any costs for the car being 
offroad, for any reason. I disagree that this is the correct position here  either in law or in 
what is fair or reasonable. To be clear  my finding is that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. So, the remedy is to put Mr T back in the position hed have been in  as far as possible  had the agreement never been entered into. 
This leads to Mr Ts consequential losses. He will need to either cancel his current car 
insurance, or transfer it to another vehicle. Neither of things would have been necessary, 
had his initial car been of satisfactory quality. So, upon reasonable proof of Mr T incurring 
this cost, Startline should reimburse him.
Finally, Ive considered the distress and inconvenience caused. Its clear that this has been 
ongoing and significant. Startline had many opportunities to put things right. I think £200 is 
reasonable in these circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right, Startline should:
accept rejection of the car, and arrange for it to be collected, at no cost to Mr T;
remove any negative records from Mr Ts credit file regarding this agreement (if any), 
and mark it as settled;
refund Mr T his deposit in full, adding 8% simple interest a year, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund Mr T the car rental payments he made, totalling £1,076.54, adding 8% simple 
interest a year, from the date of each payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr T the costs of the diagnostic reports (£72 and £48), from the date of each 
invoice until the date of settlement; 
pay Mr T £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and
upon reasonable proof of payment, refund Mr T the admin fee incurred for 
cancelling/amending his car insurance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED to take the actions set out above, in the section 
entitled Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman