DRN-3217412
The complaint
Mr F complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HLAS) gave him 
unsuitable advice regarding his self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP). He says that the 
advice caused him to exceed his annual money purchase pension allowance and incur tax 
penalties as a consequence.
What happened
Mr F had his own business with his wife, Mrs F. It paid contributions to his personal pension. 
Mr F met with HLAS in November 2018 and HLAS carried out a fact-find to understand his 
circumstances. Several aspects of financial planning were discussed including the option of 
making one off pension contributions for the 2018/19 tax year. 
HLAS then sent Mr F a financial planning report in November 2018. In the report HLAS 
recommended that Mr F make contributions of £98,250 in the 2018/19 tax year. HLAS said 
that would fully utilise that years annual allowance and the unused carry forward allowances 
for the previous three years. The recommendation was based on certain assumptions. 
Including that Mr F wasnt subject to tapered annual allowances.
HMRC introduced tapering to the annual pension allowance from April 2016. Which meant 
that the allowance was reduced for those earning over a particular income threshold. In the 
case of Mr Fs pension, his earnings in the 2017/18 tax year meant that he was subject to 
tapering. The standard allowance of £40,000 was reduced to £13,091. And in the 2018/19 
tax year his earnings meant that tapering reduced his allowance to £10,000 for that year. 
The tapering wasnt accounted for in the recommendation HLAS provided, which meant that 
contributing the recommended amount meant Mr Fs contributions to his pension in the 
2018/19 tax year exceeded his allowance by £53,200. Which meant he faced a tax charge 
from HMRC of £23,940.
Mr F complained to HLAS that it failed to give him correct advice. And its failing caused him 
to incur a tax charge that could otherwise have been avoided.
HLAS didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It thought that the financial planning report it provided 
had been clear. The report explained that it was presumed that pension contributions would 
continue at the existing monthly rate. And the recommendation assumed that Mr F had a full 
annual allowance in the 2018/19 tax year and the previous three tax years. HLAS said that it 
highlighted the issue of tapering and suggested that tax advice should be sought if Mr F 
thought that he was affected by that.
Mr Fs complaint was brought to our service. Mr F didnt agree with the resolution proposed 
by our investigator so asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. I looked 
into what had happened and issued a provisional decision to both parties to explain the 
reasons why I thought that the complaint should be upheld. I explained that:
Mr F had sought specific advice on how much he was allowed to contribute into his 
pension in that financial year
HLAS understood Mr Fs request and advised him that it would need the figures in 
more detail to provide an answer
HLAS met with Mr F to conduct a fact find, so had the opportunity to obtain the 
information it needed in order to provide the advice requested
HLAS didnt find out about Mr Fs earnings in the preceding tax years which would 
have had a bearing on the annual allowance that he could carry over
I didnt think it was reasonable for HLAS to assume that Mr F had a full £40,000 
annual contribution allowance, where it was possible for them to find out the actual 
figure but didnt
COBS 9.2.1 meant that HLAS had responsibility to obtain the necessary information 
regarding Mr Fs financial situation to be able to make its recommendation
Mr F responded to my provisional decision and agreed with the conclusion Id reached.
HLAS responded to re-iterate its view that it had done nothing wrong. It provided no 
additional evidence but made the following points:
Where an accountant is an integral part of the process its role and responsibilities 
need to be considered
A client has a responsibility for confirming information provided is correct
HLAS were told that the company accountant is comfortable with these employer 
contributions
Mr F didnt challenge the assumptions made in the suitability report 
The suitability report explained tapering
Mr F never responded to the suitability report to say that the accountant wasnt taking 
responsibility for the contribution amounts
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence and the response from HLAS, I havent changed my 
mind on the outcome in this case. I understand that HLAS disagree with me, but I think that 
HLAS are responsible for failing to provide Mr F with a suitable personal recommendation. I 
will explain my reasons.
In deciding this complaint, I have considered, amongst other things, HLASs responsibilities 
as a regulated business. Our regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  sets out 
what is required of businesses in its Handbook. It includes the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS), which, in section 9 explains what is required of businesses in 
assessing suitability. COBS 9.2.1 makes it clear that HLAS had to take reasonable steps to 
make sure that the personal recommendation it gave Mr F was suitable for him. COBS 9.2.1 
also made it clear that HLAS needed to obtain the necessary information regarding Mr Fs 
financial situation to be able to make its recommendation.
Ive seen an email that HLAS were sent in November 2018 asking for specific advice. In it, 
Mrs F wrote:
We have been talking to our accountant recently and for a number of reasons we 
would like to top up our pensions to maximise our allowance this year and back date 
where possible. Please can you let me know how much we can add at the moment?I dont think it was reasonable for HLAS to infer from this request that Mr and Mrs Fs 
accountant had advised on how much they could contribute without exceeding their 
allowances. I think that this request clearly showed that Mr and Mrs F wanted HLAS to let 
them know how much they could put into their pensions in the 2018/19 tax year. 
And in HLASs suitability report, under the rationale for its recommendation, it said, your 
accountant has suggested substantial employer pension contributions to use the balance of 
your Annual Allowance in 2018/19 and unused allowance from the previous three tax years. 
We have calculated this would require a lump sum of . I think that HLAS were responsible 
for advising on the amount to contribute. And the fact that Mr F had an accountant didnt 
remove the obligation on HLAS to obtain the information it needed to make a suitable 
recommendation in this regard. Furthermore, the fact that Mr Fs accountant didnt identify 
HLASs error, doesnt mean that HLAS isnt responsible for its mistake.
The meeting that Mr and Mrs F had with HLASs adviser was the opportunity for HLAS to 
understand their financial position. The information established in that meeting formed the 
basis of the recommendations that were made to Mr F. This meeting was recorded and has 
been shared with us.
At the start of the meeting HLAS established that Mr Fs taxable income was around 
£100,000. There is then mention of an additional £300,000 in their companys profits that 
can be accessed. But I havent heard in the meeting recording that there was any specific 
intention stated to distribute that profit to Mr or Mrs F as additional salary or dividend 
payments. HLAS had the chance in that meeting to establish the information needed to be 
able to go through the figures in more detail, as it said it would. But it didnt clearly establish 
whether Mr F would have an income that made him subject to tapering in the 2018/19 tax 
year. And no discussion took place that made any reference to Mr Fs earnings over the 
previous three years. 
Following the meeting HLAS sent Mr and Mrs F a financial planning report. This was its 
personal recommendation and Ive looked at it in detail. The first page of the cover letter that 
was sent with the report said my advice is based on information you provided about your 
current situation and objectives as set out in the enclosed Financial Planning Questionnaire 
dated 19 November 2018. Please do check this and advise me straight away if there have 
been any changes to your circumstances or if it does not represent your situation accurately 
as I rely on this information to act in your best interest and inaccuracies could affect the 
suitability of my recommendations.
Ive seen the Financial Planning Questionnaire referred to above. Under the section headed 
Your Income the total income figures for Mr F is listed as £100,000. Which was the figure 
given in the fact-find meeting. And wasnt accounting for the possibility of further 
remuneration which may not have been decided at that time. The tax year was not yet over.  
Id have expected Mr F to have checked this questionnaire and pointed out any inaccuracies. 
But I havent seen that he did.
As Ive pointed out though, HLAS didnt establish earnings in the previous three years, and 
didnt include that in their Financial Planning Questionnaire. I dont think Mr F should have 
known to provide missing information that HLAS hadnt asked him for. 
The recommendations that HLAS made in its suitability report highlighted the assumptions 
that it made in reaching the recommended pension contribution figures. Which included the 
assumption that Mr F had the full pension annual allowance of £40,000 in the 2018/19 and 
previous tax years. So the recommendation assumed that Mr F wasnt subject to tapered 
allowance due to his income. Bearing in mind its obligation under COBS 9.1.2, I think that HLAS should have obtained 
past earnings for Mr F. This information was necessary for it to know whether or not Mr F 
was subject to tapering in the previous financial years. And unlike the 2018/19 financial year 
 where HLAS established an anticipated income  the incomes from previous years would 
have been known and available. From what Ive seen in the fact find questionnaire, and 
listened to from the meeting, HLAS didnt ask for that information. If it had, it wouldnt have 
had to make assumptions about previous earnings. And the recommendation it gave would 
have been more accurate.
There may be times where making assumptions is a necessary part of financial planning. 
For instance, where the final income for the 2018/19 tax-year was unknown, an assumption 
would have to suffice. But for the preceding tax years, where the exact information was 
available, I dont think it was fair or reasonable to assume that Mr F had a full annual 
allowance entitlement without checking. HLAS should have found out. And could have 
prevented Mr F exceeding his annual allowance if it had.
I know that HLAS have shown us that their suitability report included a warning that the 
assumption regarding tapering had been made. But the recommendation they provided Mr F 
was that he could contribute £98,250. Which was a very specific amount. And was provided 
in answer to the request to know how much he was allowed to contribute. I think its 
understandable that Mr F trusted the figure to be accurate. I dont think that providing a 
warning or letting Mr F know that he could speak to a tax specialist if he had concerns, 
excused HLASs failure to find out the necessary information and give an accurate 
recommendation. Or was enough to tell Mr F not to trust the figure hed been given and to do 
further checks to make sure that HLAS were correct. 
For these reasons I believe that HLAS were responsible for the overpayments that ended up 
being made to Mr Fs pension. It was apparent from the fact-find meeting that Mr F said the 
business had up to £300,000 that could be re-distributed as benefits. And HLAS had given 
an initial estimate of around £100,000 for contributions, which it was clear Mr F was 
prepared to take from the business in benefits. Had HLAS accounted for the tapering in 
2017/18, then it would have had to reduce its recommendation by £26,909. It would then 
have identified the likelihood that Mr F would seek to take that employee benefit in another 
way. And given that HLAS thought that Mr F was only £10,000 away from being affected by 
tapering in the 2018/19 tax-year, they should have been aware of the potential of his being 
affected by tapering in that year too.
Putting things right
My aim in putting things right is to try to put Mr F as close to the position hed have been in 
but for HLASs mistake. Which isnt simply a matter of asking HLAS to pay the tax penalty 
that Mr F incurred. I need to consider the difference between what happened and what ought 
to have happened, as Mr F may have been able to have accessed his employee benefits in 
a better way.
Mr F has the benefit of those contributions to his pension and the investment returns that he 
will get on those until he accesses those benefits. At that point  the crystallisation event  
hell be taxed on those benefits again. But for Mr F to have benefitted from the same sum in 
a different way there would have still been tax implications. So his loss is the difference 
between the net gain hell have compared with the potential net gain he could have had. 
Mr F suggests that hed have taken any additional benefit as dividends from the business 
rather than as income. Which I think is reasonable given the way he was taking benefits from 
the business already. 
So, HLAS should calculate the redress due to Mr F as follows:Current net gain = £53,200 (HMRC excess contribution)  £23,940 (annual allowance 
tax) - crystallisation event tax1
Notional net gain = notional dividend payment2 - dividend tax on that sum
1 crystallisation tax calculated assuming 25% can be taken tax free and the remainder taxed 
at a higher rate
2 notional dividend payment is calculated by deducting corporation tax from the £53,200 sum
Net loss = notional net gain  current net gain
If this shows a loss, HLAS should pay Mr F the net loss figure as compensation. 
The excess pension contribution should never have been part of the pension contribution on 
which HLASs fee was based. So HLAS should refund the fee that was attributable to the 
excess payment of £53,200.
HLAS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr F accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ive considered the impact on Mr F from HLASs mistake. I accept that he will have been 
caused stress in getting so large and unexpected a tax bill. This would have been a concern 
and I think that an additional payment of £200 compensates Mr F for the distress and 
inconvenience HLASs mistake caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited should compensate Mr F in the manner I 
have set out in under putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman