DRN-3814777
The complaint
Ms G complains that Student Loans Company Limited (SLC) has treated her unfairly in 
relation to writing off her debt.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Ms G held several student loans with SLC for studies between 1999 and 2001. Shed 
also taken a previous student loan with Company A in 1997.
In March 2014 all of these loans were subsequently sold to Company B, another 
student loan company.
Ms G says she contacted SLC to defer the repayments of these loans in 2014. She 
says SLC failed to provide her with the relevant forms or process the application 
correctly to allow for the deferment to happen prior to arrears accruing.
SLC said it provided the relevant forms to Ms G both in March 2014, and May 2014. 
And SLC says it was only provided with a partially completed form in July 2014, with 
insufficient evidence as to how she was supporting herself at the time. It requested 
further information from her, which it said it received in September 2014. 
SLC accepted the deferment around this time, and backdated this deferment for 
three months, until July 2014, the maximum period it says it is allowed to do so.
Ms G says this three-month backdated period meant there were still arrears between 
April and July 2014 that werent captured by the deferment. She says these historic 
arrears have since led to the loans not being written off.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
SLCs evidence suggested the delays in Ms Gs deferment were not due to SLC, and 
instead delays caused by Ms Gs application and response times. So, any impact of 
the arrears was not due to SLC.
Ms G disagreed, saying SLC had previously accepted the information she provided 
initially was sufficient and apologised for elongating the process unnecessarily.
The Investigator requested further information from SLC regarding its communication 
with Ms G and any previous acceptance of fault. SLC said there was no record of an 
apology or conversation reflecting this on its systems. 
Ms G provided an email from March 2016 within which an agent stated there was no 
further information required. 
The Investigator reviewed this but said it hadnt changed his mind as the 2016 
correspondence had no reference to the 2014 application.
Ms G has since provided various documents from around 2013, including bank 
statements, tax credits document, and a section from what appears to be a 
deferment application from 2013.
So, the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision. Both parties were 
given until 12 December 2022 to provide any further information. This date has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms G says SLCs delay in providing her with a deferment form and asking 
unnecessary questions led to the application being submitted late, and in turn led to 
arrears on her account.
So, Ive got to consider whether SLCs handling of the deferment request from 2014 
was reasonable, and if it made any mistakes what it needs to do to put things right.
While there are other loan companies involved in this complaint, this complaint 
concerns the specific actions of SLC.
SLC has provided evidence to suggest the forms were initially sent to Ms G in March 
2014. She says she never received these. I accept its possible the forms hadnt 
arrived, but the evidence persuades me they were sent by SLC. So, I wouldnt look to 
hold it responsible for any postal issues if it didnt arrive. 
Its not in dispute SLC resent the forms in May 2014. Nor is it disputed the form was 
returned to SLC in July 2014.
SLC said the form was incomplete and it needed further information from her. And 
seemingly after follow-up evidence was provided by Ms G in September 2014 the 
deferment went ahead.
Ms G alleges that SLC had agreed its decision to request further information was 
unnecessary and made reference to SLC apologising. Shes provided an email from 
2016 during a back and forth exchange with an agent in which they do say they have 
sufficient information and she doesnt need to provide anything further. But this email 
appears to be regarding a 2016 application, and on its face has nothing to do with the 
2014 deferment which wouldve already been agreed by this time.
Ms G has also provided information from around 2013 which I believe she suggests 
shows the further information SLC requested was unnecessary. But with limited 
information available, the evidence suggests to me that the 2014 application was 
missing information  regardless of whether Ms G felt shed provided enough, SLC 
didnt. And it seems to have processed this within a reasonable period of time after 
she submitted it. So, it strikes me the delay here lay with Ms G and not SLC.
As a result, Im not persuaded SLC has done anything wrong and Im not going to 
direct it to do anything further. This means Im satisfied any subsequent impact of 
debts not being written off relating to these historic debts is not the fault of SLC.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jack BaldryOmbudsman