DRN-2916756
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has told him that to open a new business bank
account and overdraft it will have to carry out a credit check.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold this complaint. I 
said: 
Mr A has told us he originally opened a business account when he was in a partnership. But
a short time later his partner parted ways. Mr As partner was removed from the account by
Barclays but it wasnt amended to reflect he was now operating as a sole trader.
Barclays subsequently approved a £1,500 overdraft on the business account.
During the pandemic Mr A contacted Barclays to discuss a Bounce Bank Loan. Barclays
found Mr A was operating as a sole trader but the account was set up on the basis hes in a
partnership. Barclays advised Mr A he couldnt apply for the Bounce Bank Loan when his
account wasnt set up correctly. Barclays told Mr A that to open a new account with an
overdraft on a sole trader basis would require a credit check. Barclays also said Mr A could
open a sole trader account with no overdraft without the need to complete a credit check.
Mr A complained and explained he didnt want a credit check to be completed but Barclays
didnt change its decision. Barclays offered Mr A £100 for the delay in responding to his
complaint.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The
investigator thought Barclays had dealt with Mr As case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything
else. Mr A asked to appeal and said Barclays had more than enough information about him
to approve a new account and overdraft facility without carrying out a credit check. As Mr A
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has told us he was seeking support from Barclays during an unprecedented time. And I
can understand why Mr A is upset that an issue with the way his business account is set up
has impacted whether hes able to apply for assistance with Barclays. I can see the issue
wasnt caused by Mr A who told Barclays about the change in his business set up a long
time ago. That being said, I cant force Barclays to open a new business account for him with
an associated overdraft without completing a credit check.
Barclays gave two options when the issue came to light. Mr A can have a new account
without an associated overdraft and no credit check will be completed. Or Barclays can
arrange a new business account and complete a credit check in order to ensure the
application meets its lending criteria. I understand Mr A feels Barclays isnt offering new
lending but I dont agree. The current arrangement is a separate account, if a new business
account and overdraft are opened they will be a new agreement between Mr A and Barclays.
And, whilst I agree that Barclays has lots of data about Mr A and his business from the
longstanding nature of his relationship, its still able to insist on a credit search before a new
account is opened. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I dont agree that the requirement of a
credit search is unfair or unreasonable.
That being said, I dont agree that the £100 Barclays has offered Mr A to date fairly reflects
the impact of these issues on him. Mr A correctly updated Barclays about changes to his
business and it failed to take appropriate steps to ensure he had a suitable account at the
time. When the pandemic started impacting businesses, Mr A quite reasonably contacted his
bank for assistance. And that assistance was denied on the basis of an error made years
before.
Mr A is a business owner and I can appreciate how distressing its been for him to find out
that Barclays couldnt help because of a technicality to do with the way his account is set up.
Barclays own complaint notes confirm that Mr A wasnt able to proceed for technical
reasons, not because his application was turned down. Im satisfied this situation has
caused Mr A a significant level of trouble and upset and has affected his ability to apply for
support for his business during an unprecedented period.
Unless I see new information that changes my mind, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint and
increase the award for the trouble and upset caused from £100 to £300. Whilst I appreciate it
doesnt resolve the central issue of Barclays requirement for a credit search if Mr A wants
an overdraft, I think it more fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on him.
I invited Mr A and Barclays to respond with any new information they wanted me to consider 
before making my final decision. Barclays responded to say it accepted the terms of my 
provisional decision. Mr A didnt get back to us.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think the fairest approach 
is to uphold Mr As complaint and for Barclays to pay him £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused, for the same reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr A a 
total of £300 (less any compensation already paid).
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman