DRN-3152783
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited is requiring him to pay an 
amount it says is outstanding on his conditional sale agreement that he doesnt believe he 
owes.
What happened
In April 2016 Mr S entered into a conditional sale agreement through Clydesdale to acquire a 
car. The total amount payable on the agreement was £11,316 and was to be repaid over 48 
months. 
In April 2020 Clydesdale granted Mr S a three month payment holiday. Mr S says that, in 
July 2020, Clydesdale wrote to him to say he owed £191.77 on the finance agreement. So 
he sent it a cheque for this amount which he says Clydesdale cashed. So he believes he has 
settled the finance in full. However he says Clydesdale continued to send him letters 
requiring him to make further payments.
Mr S says he sent Clydesdale the letter he received in July 2020 a number of times to show 
he didnt owe anything further, but Clydesdale maintained he still owed money on the 
agreement. So Mr S raised a complaint that it continued to say he was overdue on his 
payments and said it would record adverse markers on his credit file.
Clydesdale responded to Mr S to say it had spoken with him to discuss the remaining 
balance on the finance agreement and it explained that the monthly payment due for 
July 2020 was £191.77 and then the final balloon payment of £4,900 was payable in 
August 2020. It said Mr S enquired whether it was possible to refinance the balloon payment 
through Clydesdale. It said Mr S asked for copies of his payment holiday exit letter and the 
options to refinance the finance agreement.
Clydesdale says Mr S called back again on 27 July 2020 to advise that hed still not received 
the letters hed asked for. And it said Mr S had said hed received a letter saying he need to 
pay the balloon payment on 29 July 2020, which it agreed was incorrect. However, 
Clydesdale applied for the balloon payment on 29 July 2020, but it was returned unpaid.
Mr S called Clydesdale again on 30 July 2020 and explained what had happened. He then 
made a payment of £191.77. He then contacted Clydesdale again on 4 August 2020 and 
asked for a payment holiday, which Clydesdale agreed to. This meant the balloon payment 
didnt become due until November 2020. 
Mr S says he later received an account statement from Clydesdale which he says set out he 
only owed £191.77. So he sent Clydesdale a cheque for £191.77 which it cashed. He says 
he now considers the account settled.
Clydesdale subsequently wrote to him to say he still owed money on the account. Mr S 
maintained that he didnt because he says he settled the account in line with the account 
statement. Hes further unhappy that Clydesdale has recorded adverse markers on his 
account.
Clydesdale didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said the account statement incorrectly showed 
he only owed £191.77 because it had incorrectly taken the balloon payment in July 2020. 
But it said this was corrected after the payment was returned unpaid. It said it had applied 
the £191.77 as a payment towards the balloon payment. So it said he still owed £4,708.23.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said she could understand why there was 
a confusion, but she said Mr S had been given the correct information on the telephone and 
he was aware the balloon payment was payable. But she thought Clydesdale could have 
done more to help Mr S understand what had happened. So she thought it should pay him 
£100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said he was willing to accept the £100 in 
compensation, but he said his credit file had been adversely affected. And he wanted the 
adverse markers removed as this was impacting his ability to get a mortgage. He said 
Clydesdale told him it would put the account on hold while this matter was being 
investigated.
Clydesdale accepted the investigators opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and Ill now explain why.
Mr S says he settled the account in line with the account statement, so he doesnt believe he 
owes Clydesdale any further money. But I dont agree. I can see Clydesdale sent Mr S an 
account statement on 29 July 2020 which suggested he only owed £191.77. But this took 
into account the fact it had incorrectly applied for the balloon payment that day. So the 
account balance was accurate at that time, on the assumption the payment went through. 
However, as the payment was subsequently rejected, the account returned to the correct 
balance.
Mr S spoke to Clydesdale numerous times before and after this statement and its clear he 
was aware he still needed to make the £4,900 and had been enquiring about ways to pay it. 
He had also agreed to enter into a further three month payment holiday. So he was aware 
this amount was still payable.
I acknowledge he believes he settled the account in line with what Clydesdale had said he 
owed. But he entered into a contract with Clydesdale to repay £11,316 over 48 years and he 
hasnt done so. Clydesdale correctly explained to Mr S a number of times that he still owed 
£4,708.23.
I agree with the investigator that Clydesdale could have explained more clearly to Mr S what 
had happened. But I cannot ignore the fact that Mr S knew he needed to pay the balloon 
payment and he knew he hadnt done so.
I acknowledge he thinks Clydesdale didnt have any right to amend the final settlement 
figure. But, as I said, this amendment was to take into account the request for payment of 
£4,900 that Clydesdale took on 29 July 2020 didnt go through. And it was entitled to do this.
So I cant say Clydesdale has acted unfairly in requiring him to pay the remaining balance of 
£4,708.23. I note Mr S thinks its unfair its recorded adverse markers against him. But this 
payment was due on November 2020 and Clydesdale repeatedly advised him this was payable. Mr S has said Clydesdale told him it would put the payment on hold, but I havent 
seen anything to support this. And Mr S was aware Clydesdale was chasing him for this 
money given the account was in collections.
That said, Clydesdale acted unfairly in applying for the balloon payment in July 2020, which 
caused the confusion regarding the account balance. And I agree with the investigator that it 
should pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience payable.
However, it was Mr Ss choice to not pay the remaining balance on the account that he was 
contractually required to pay. I appreciate Mr S felt strongly about this situation. But, as I 
said, he was aware he hadnt paid the final balloon payment that he was contractually 
required to pay. So I think he should have reasonably known he was in breach of his 
agreement in not paying the outstanding balance. And I cant say that Clydesdale has acted 
unfairly in recording the adverse markers it has. So, it follows, that Im not requiring it to 
remove them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to pay Mr S £100 in compensation. I make no 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman