DRN-3853841
The complaint
Miss M, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC, lent to her when she 
could not afford it. 
What happened
Using information supplied by Morses, here is a loan table. The last loan is with a debt 
collector. Morses has agreed to put things right for Miss M in relation to loan 6. 
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm 
in 
weeksRepayment 
amount 
each weekWeeks 
Live
1 28/09/2017 19/01/2018 £200.00 £100.00 20 £15.00 16
2 14/12/2017 23/02/2018 £200.00 £130.00 33 £10.00 10
3 19/01/2018 23/02/2018 £200.00 £100.00 20 £15.00 5
4 22/03/2018 17/09/2018 £500.00 £325.00 33 £25.00 26
5 17/05/2018 17/09/2019 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00 70
6 17/09/2018 17/09/2019 £500.00 £325.00 33 £25.00 52
After receiving the complaint, Morses issued its final response letter (FRL) in which it said it 
did not uphold Miss Ms complaint. Her representative referred it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators did an assessment of the complaint and told 
Morses she felt it ought to be loan 6 that was the part of the complaint to be upheld.
Our adjudicator received information from Morses to say that it was content to put things 
right for Miss M for loan 6. It explained as follows: 
The customer holds an outstanding balance of £568.75 with a Debt Collection 
Agency, this compromises of £243.75 capital and therefore they havent made any 
repayments towards this interest, we will therefore instruct the DCA to remove the 
interest balance and leave the outstanding capital owing.
Please note the DCA cannot remove the loan from the credit file until the new 
balance is paid, we will however request any negative information relating to loan 6 is 
removed.
This resolution offer was put to Miss Ms representative and it was not accepted. So, our 
adjudicator asked Miss Ms representative for additional documents and financial records 
about her circumstances when the loans were being approved for her. 
Our adjudicator did not receive anything and so she used the information she had and did a 
comprehensive view. In it she gave her opinion that Morses ought to have done some 
additional checks at loan 5 but as we had nothing to refer to about Miss Ms financial 
situation in May 2018 then she could not take that further. Our adjudicator reiterated the 
uphold for loan 6 which Morses has agreed to.
We have not heard more from Miss M and her representative has said that it is having 
trouble getting in touch with her. However, that last communication was almost two months 
ago. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss M could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ms 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include:
Miss M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss M. 
Morses was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss M was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Miss Ms complaint.
Ive reviewed the credit search Morses carried out before loan 1. I can see that Miss M had 
historic debt and had several defaults which were from some time before she first 
approached Morses. She also had a relatively recent default on her credit file but I do not 
consider that would have been enough to prevent Morses from lending to Miss M. This was 
her first loan and for a relatively modest sum.Miss M has not sent to us anything about her financial situation during this lending 
relationship with Morses and so I cant conclude that the information it had from Miss M for 
her income and her expenditure was incorrect. And so, Ive had to use that evidence. And it 
seems that Miss M had enough disposable income each week to afford the loans 1 to 4. 
This is a duplicate of part of the records Morses had. I have inserted it here as it shows that 
by loan 5 it knew Miss M had other credit and it reached over 18% of her income. And 
Miss M was asking for £300 and still had loan 4 outstanding. 
Loan number Income Total 
Other 
Credit Percentage of 
total credit 
1 £298.00 £0.00 0.00%
2 £316.00 £15.00 4.75%
3 £292.00 £10.00 3.42%
4 £295.00 £10.00 3.39%
5 £276.00 £50.00 18.12%
6 £387.00 £25.00 6.46%
So, I think that Morses ought to have done further checks to find out what was going on with 
Miss M such that she needed to keep coming back for credit. But, without the information 
from Miss M Im not able to assess what it is that Morses would have seen if it had made 
those further enquiries. 
So, on the evidence I have I do not uphold the complaint about loans 1 to 5.
Morses has agreed to uphold loan 6 and so I need not go into detail on that loan, other than 
to endorse that uphold. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss M at loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right. Morses shouldnt have given Miss M loan 6. My 
understanding is that this is outstanding and with a  debt collector. 
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Morses cant buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner (or the debt collector) to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan 
and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had been repayments of 
the principal. If this results in Miss M having made overpayments then Morses should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date Miss M 
originally made the payments to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then 
refund the amounts calculated.
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated should be used to 
repay any balance remaining. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be 
paid to Miss M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Morses should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss M. But Id remind Morses of its 
obligation to treat Miss M fairly and with forbearance  if needed.
C.Morses should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Miss Ms credit 
file in relation to the loan.  It has said that due to the DCA involvement this is what 
will happen  Please note the DCA cannot remove the loan from the credit file until 
the new balance is paid, we will however request any negative information relating to 
loan 6 is removed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as it has already agreed to do which is as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman