complaint  
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a  
mortgage in 2000. Ms B says Bank of Scotland Plc mis -sold her the PPI.  
my findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and  
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.  
Having done so, Ive d ecided the policy wasnt mis -sold. Ill explain why below.  
When selling the PPI, Bank of Scotland had to make it clear to Ms B that she had a choice  
about it. But Ms B says she wasnt given an option about the PPI and didnt know it had  
been added to her m ortgage.  
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of part of Ms Bs application form for the mortgage.  
This included a section on PPI, with a space for her to sign if she wanted to take it out. And  
Ms B has signed in the space. Bank of Scotland has also sent us a copy of a PPI application  
form, signed by Ms B.  
If Ms B didnt want the PPI, I think she couldve left the PPI section of the mortgage  
application form blank. So I think Bank of Scotland did make it clear to her that she had a  
choice about the P PI. And that Ms B chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.  
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Ms B. If it did recommend the PPI, it  
wouldve had more responsibilities during the sale, which would be to Ms Bs benefit. So, as  
Bank of Scot land accepts that it recommended the PPI, Ive assessed the complaint as if it  
did. This means Bank of Scotland had to check that the PPI was right for Ms B.  
And based on what Ive seen of Ms Bs circumstances at the time, I think that the PPI was  
right f or her. For example, she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the  
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for significantly longer  
than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And shes told us she did nt have  
any savings or other means she couldve used to make her repayments if she wasnt  
earning.  
As well as checking it was right for her, Bank of Scotland had to give Ms B clear information  
about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasn t as clear as it shouldve been.  
But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Ms Bs property couldve been at risk  
if shed failed to make her repayments. So I think she couldve found the protection the  
policy offered appealing. And, for the sa me reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like  
DRN-1014847the PPI would have been useful for Ms B if something went wrong.  
Ms B has said she wouldve turned down the PPI if shed been told how much it cost, as she  
was trying to keep her monthly repayments as low as possible. But the benefits of the policy  
significantly outweighed its cost. And the cost of the PPI was relatively small in comparison  
to the monthly mortgage payments Ms B wouldve been making. So I dont think better  
information abou t the PPI would have put Ms B off taking it out.  
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.  
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level o f commission and profit share (more than 50% of
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Bank of Scotland
didnt tell Ms B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and
profit sh are that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this
case.
my final decision  
The PPI policy wasnt mis -sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the  
cost of the PPI to Ms B.  
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have  to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit share it  
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I  
dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to as k Ms B to accept or  
reject my decision before 21 October 2019.  
Alan Millward  
Ombudsman  