DRN-1886507
the complaint
Miss B and Mr D are unhappy that Santander UK Plc has refused to refund the money they 
sent to a third party after they made a complaint that the goods they received werent of 
satisfactory quality. They say they called Santander before making the transfer and were 
incorrectly advised that they would be protected if the goods werent as expected.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss B says she called Santander on 30 May 2019 before making the purchase and 
twice again afterwards  but there is no evidence on Santanders audit system that 
her account was ever accessed by any of its staff. And it has been able to evidence 
that this would happen each time a member of staff looks at an account  for 
example when it receives a call. So if Miss B made these three calls to Santander 
then they should have been logged on its audit system.
 
Miss B says she didnt give her account details when she called initially and just 
received general advice, but she hasnt been able to provide this service with any 
evidence of that call, such as an itemised phone showing that she made the call.
 
Miss B has called into question the reliability of the auditing system Santander uses. 
But as Ive explained, Santanders system shows that she hasnt contacted it on any 
of the three occasions she claims to have done. I dont think its likely that the 
auditing system would have stopped recording on at least two or three occasions at 
the exact time Miss B says she called it.
 
I realise that Miss B is disappointed that Santander isnt refunding this transaction 
and thinks it should give her the benefit of the doubt. But without any evidence, I 
dont think I can fairly conclude that Santander made a mistake. Thats because in 
this case, I have to reach a decision based on what I think is more likely to have 
happened. And on balance, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to say 
Santander provided Miss B with incorrect advice.
 
As Miss B made the transfer directly to the third party from her bank account, she 
isnt protected by any of the consumer protections that she may have been had she 
bought the goods using a credit facility. So I dont think Santander needs to refund 
the transaction or take any further steps to put things right. 
For these reasons, although I understand Miss Bs frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman