DRN-1896600
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains that HSBC Bank UK PLC didnt act on her instructions to freeze her share 
dealing account so that her then husband was able to access the account and sell shares 
within it.
What happened
Mrs R had a share dealing account with HSBC and contacted it on 2 May 2017 asking it to 
freeze the account This was because Mr R had access to her account, and she wanted to 
stop that access. HSBC didnt freeze the account as requested so Mr R was able to sell 
shares in her account.
HSBC provided a final response to the complaint in which it acknowledged it had not frozen 
Mrs Rs account as she had requested. But it said that Mrs R had given Mr R her security 
details allowing him to access the account in breach of the terms and condition. It said this 
was highlighted to Mrs R in March 2012 when her security details were reset because it had 
learned Mr R had been accessing the account on behalf of Mrs R.
At the time Mrs R complained and HSBC provided its final response no divorce settlement 
had been made and an indication was given that Mrs R would seek to recover the value of 
the shares that were sold by Mr R from her account. But although the account was referred 
to in proceedings, the financial settlement did not require Mr R account for the shares he 
sold.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. In summary I said the following:
Although Mrs R had allowed Mr R access to her account previously it was because of 
this she had asked HSBC to freeze the account. 
It isnt in dispute it didnt act on her instruction, and if it had Mr R wouldnt have been 
able to sell the shares, so it is responsible for these being sold.
Mrs R went through divorce proceedings with Mr R and the share dealing account is 
referenced but the court didnt require Mr R to account for the shares sold.
Mrs Rs matrimonial solicitors said that the judge thought that there had been 
extravagant spending by both parties and that it would have to be shown Mr R had 
wantonly dissipated the money and that there was no evidence of this.
As the judge didnt think Mrs R should have the benefit of the value of shares sold by 
Mr R it could not be reasonably be said the judge wouldve allowed her to keep the 
whole value of the shares in the account if the shares hadn't been sold.
But just because the judge didnt require Mr R to account for the shares sold does 
not necessarily mean Mrs R would have been required to transfer the whole value of 
the shares to Mr R if they had remained in the account.
If the shares had remained in the account this wouldve been a very different position 
to the situation the judge actually had to deal with - where the shares had already 
been sold, and he didnt think Mr R had wantonly dissipated the money.The starting point for financial settlement on divorce is a 50/50 split of assets. The 
actual split depends on the particular circumstances of each case. But it was fair and 
reasonable for redress to be calculated on the basis Mrs R was entitled to half the 
value of the account.
The £500 HSBC had offered for the distress and inconvenience caused was 
reasonable.
HSBC responded and said that whilst they thought my provisional decision is unfair it had no 
further information for me to consider.
Mrs R also responded and made the following points:
The shares that Mr R cashed in were always hers. Some of these were purchased 
under a scheme run by her employer by deduction from her salary for a number of 
years. Others were purchased by her with her own money including her redundancy 
money.
Mr R had his own share dealing account from which he took out money.
She was tarred with the same brush as Mr R with regard to extravagant spending 
when she used money to support the family, pay bills and pay mounting legal costs.
She appreciates the basis of the ombudsmans suggested 50/50 split which is fair but 
Mr R has had the benefit of the full amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that HSBC thinks my provisional decision is unfair. I understand why it may feel this 
way, given Mrs R initially allowed Mr R to have access to her account. But that is the very 
reason she contacted it to freeze the account. And if it had done what it shouldve done on 
receiving that request the shares wouldnt have been sold.
I also acknowledge that there is no way of knowing with any certainty what the judge 
wouldve ordered if the shares had remained in the account. But I still think it is fair and 
reasonable to base redress on the account being split 50/50 in the absence of any 
persuasive evidence that a different split should be applied.
I have noted the points Mrs R has made, but nothing she has said changes my findings. I 
acknowledge what she has said about the shares being hers, and that Mr R had his own 
share dealing account. But given the judge didn't see fit to award her anything for the shares 
sold from her account I don't think it would be reasonable to base redress on her being 
entitled to the full value of the account.
I also note what she has said about Mr R retaining the full value of shares he sold. I accept 
she may feel that is unfair, but it isn't something I can take into account in deciding what 
redress HSBC should pay.
Putting things right
The usual starting point for financial settlement on divorce is a 50/50 split of assets. I 
acknowledge this is only the starting point and the actual division of assets will depend on 
the particular circumstances in each case and will not always be on that basis. 
But in the absence of any persuasive evidence to show a different split should be applied I 
think it is fair and reasonable that redress is based on Mrs R being entitled to half the value 
her share dealing account. So HSBC should calculate what Mrs R would be entitled to on that basis and pay this to her to together with simple interest at 8% on the amount it 
calculates is payable from the date of the financial settlement order until date of payment. 
HSBC has previously offered £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused which I think 
is reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. HSBC Bank UK PLC has to 
calculate redress as I have set out above and pay this to Mrs R along with £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman