DRN-3292385
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as D complains that Santander UK Plc treated it unfairly by 
changing the mortgage terms on an agreement in principle for a property it intended to 
purchase.
 
The complaint is brought on Ds behalf by two of its directors, Mr and Mrs W  but for ease 
Ill refer to Mr W throughout the decision.
What happened
D was a customer of Santander, holding a loan with the bank which was secured on a 
property which Ill call DH and a debenture over D itself as a business. 
In June 2019, Mr W had a business review with Ds bank relationship manager. As part of 
this review, Ds future plans were discussed - which included looking at the purchase of a 
new property and the potential early exit from a leasehold property which Ill call G. However, 
this would be dependent on the agreement of the leaseholder and payment of any 
dilapidation costs related to G. 
In October 2019, D decided to purchase another property which Ill call H and made an offer 
of around £512,000. Unfortunately, Ds offer was declined, and H was put up for auction in 
December. 
Around the same time as making the offer, Mr W contacted Santander to see if D could 
borrow a further £900,000 on a mortgage. This was to be used to purchase H and also 
refinance some of Ds existing borrowing. D wanted to keep the terms for the new loan the 
same as its existing one. This would mean using the current security held by the bank - 
which consisted of a charge over DH and a debenture over D as a business. However, the 
expected valuation value for DH didnt come back for as much as expected. Discussions 
between Santander and D continued ahead of the auction which was to be held on 17 
December. 
On 13 December, Ds relationship manager emailed Mr W to say that the £900,000 
mortgage had been agreed and the borrowing conditions seemed ok.
On the morning of the auction, Santanders risk department finalised the conditions required 
for Ds new mortgage and sent them to Ds relationship manager. The conditions included 
the existing security it held for D and additionally, a suitable valuation for H and the agreed 
early exit of the leasehold property and confirmation of Ds outstanding liability for any 
dilapidation costs for G  both of which would need to be confirmed by Gs leaseholder (the 
leaseholder). 
The relationship manager attempted to call Mr W before the auction to communicate this 
information but was unsuccessful. He also sent an email with the conditions to Mr W. Mr W 
read the email from the relationship manager and tried to contact the bank as he believed 
there had been an error. When he didnt hear back, he went ahead with the auction, making 
the successful bid for H and paying the 10% required deposit, with the balance due within 28 
days. 
The following day Mr W spoke to Santander who confirmed that the new conditions were 
indeed correct and would need to be met before it could provide funding for the new loan. Mr 
W was unhappy that the conditions hadnt been communicated sooner, as he didnt know if it 
was possible for D to exit G and provide the information required by the bank within the 28 
days. 
D paid for the property valuations as requested and contacted the leaseholder about the 
early release and dilapidation costs. However, the leaseholder had been impacted by the 
Coronavirus pandemic and wasnt able to provide the information Santander required within 
the timescale required for the bank to provide the funding needed to complete Hs purchase. 
As Santander wouldnt provide the additional funding at the end of 28 days, D had no option 
but to use its available cash - or risk losing the deposit it had already paid. This meant Ds 
cashflow was severely impacted and it wasnt able to use the money as planned. D 
approached the bank for help with its cashflow issues and the bank initially agreed an 
overdraft of £50,000 which increased over a period of eight months to £150,000  as it still 
hadnt been able to get the required information from the leaseholder to satisfy the new loan 
conditions. This also meant Santander asked D to pay for further valuations on its properties 
as the original ones had expired due to the time it was taking to get the information from the 
leaseholder. 
Frustrated by the delay and financial impact, D complained to Santander. It believed the 
bank had acted unfairly by changing the loan conditions so late in the purchase process and 
not instructing the valuations quick enough. D didnt think it was reasonable that it should 
have to pay further valuation costs due to the time that passed and asked for the lease 
condition to be removed as it was confident there wouldnt be any dilapidation costs.
Santander partially upheld the complaint. The bank agreed that it should have 
communicated the conditions in better time before D had gone to the auction. It said that the 
valuations had been completed within the arranged timescales, but it agreed they should 
have been instructed quicker. However, Santander said it couldnt change the loan 
conditions as they was required by the risk team and that it was unfortunate the leaseholder 
had been impacted by the pandemic  and therefore delays had been caused  but this 
hadnt been foreseeable at the time. 
The bank acknowledged its service could have been better and paid £700 compensation for 
the delay in providing the conditions and instructing the valuations. It also recognised D had 
incurred overdraft charges when the limits were in the process of being increased, so it 
arranged a refund of around £700 of charges. Mr W didnt think this was enough for the 
inconvenience caused and asked this service to look into Ds complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said in summary:
She agreed that Santander hadnt given D enough time to look at the borrowing 
conditions, but it was able to alter the terms before the agreement had been formally 
agreed.
Mr W had read the new terms before proceeding with the purchase of H  albeit he 
thought there was a mistake.
It was fair for the bank to ask D to undertake an updated valuation and pay the 
associated costs, and it couldnt be held responsible for the third-partys delay. She hadnt seen any evidence the bank had agreed to an interest free overdraft, but 
it supported D through increased overdraft facilities and a £50,000 Bounce Back 
Loan (BBL).
The bank had paid £700 compensation for its delays in providing the mortgage 
conditions and instructing the property valuation, and refunded charges of around 
£700 when it was increasing the overdraft limit. She thought the bank had done 
enough to put things right.
Mr W didnt agree. He said D had been expecting to pay the valuation costs and for the new 
loan to be secured against H in addition to the existing security. However, it hadnt expected 
to have to exit G early and for confirmation of any dilapidation costs before the loan funds 
could be released. He also said the plan was always to purchase a new property as D 
couldnt maintain G due to the increased costs. And if Santander couldnt meet the timescale 
for the purchase, it should have said so earlier so D could source finance elsewhere. 
Mr W also didnt think the compensation was enough for the impact on D from the banks 
actions. He said D had been charged interest on the overdraft and declined a Coronavirus 
Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) which would have been interest free for a year and it 
hadnt been given a BBL. So D had been financially disadvantaged and treated unfairly by 
the bank.
The investigator said she couldnt look at Santanders actions in not providing D with a CBIL 
or the BBL. She said this needed to be raised with the bank before this service could 
consider these complaints and therefore the interest D believed it had been overcharged 
from not receiving them. As this would be a new complaint, her opinion remained unchanged 
that for this complaint the bank had done enough to put things right. This complaint has now 
been raised under a separate reference.
D didnt agree with investigators outcome and asked for an ombudsman to look into its 
complaint. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
D has also raised a complaint about the CBIL and associated overdraft charges which is 
being dealt with under a separate reference number as Santander hasnt yet had the 
opportunity to review this part of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says Santander treated D unfairly as the bank was aware of its intention to purchase H 
before the auction, so it was unfair for the terms discussed with the bank to be changed on 
that day. 
Ive looked at the evidence from both parties, and I can see that D did discuss the purchase 
of H as early as June 2019. However there wasnt anything formal agreed with Santander at 
that point and that it was more of an enquiry as to the process. It wasnt until October 2019, 
that D approached the bank again with a formal request for lending as D wanted an 
agreement in principle for £900,000. This was to purchase H and to refinance some existing 
borrowing.  
At this point I can see that Santander told D that it didnt provide an agreement in principle 
for commercial loans, only a heads of terms which would then be used to agree the final 
loan agreement conditions. So whilst I agree with D that a discussion did take place, I havent seen any evidence that formal terms were agreed. And based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think Santander had sufficient information at this stage to provide the more formal 
agreement that D wanted. 
From mid-October through to December, I can see that D updated Santander about the 
progress of the purchase, and that H was now being taken to auction on 17 December. 
On 13 December, Ds relationship manager emailed to say that the bank had approved the 
loan, and that he was waiting for the formal conditions to be provided by the underwriters - 
but everything seemed ok. So I think it would have been reasonable for Mr W to believe at 
this point that the loan was agreed on broadly the same terms that D already had on its 
current loan with the bank. 
I have some sympathy here for Mr W, that on the day of the auction, Santander finally 
provided D with the conditions it required to fulfil the borrowing. I acknowledge that both the 
timing of the information, and relationship manage being unavailable meant D was left in a 
difficult position, but I dont think it would have done things differently if it had received the 
conditions before the day of the auction. 
I say this because:
D had already put a higher offer in for H before it went to auction, so I think it was 
always intending to buy the property - and actually paid significantly less at auction 
than its original offer. 
D had also told Santander that it needed a new property, as the lease was coming to 
an end on G, so it needed to purchase H instead. 
Whilst Mr W said he believed the additional conditions were a mistake, he did still 
have sight of the conditions before D bid on the property at the auction. 
I acknowledge Mr W says this was more due to luck from the timing of the auction, and that 
Santander wouldnt have known this. But I do have to consider all the circumstances here, 
and I cant hold the bank responsible for Ds decision to proceed with the purchase at this 
point. 
Mr W says it was never agreed that D would exit G early and that there was sufficient 
income to cover its rent along with the new loan. However, Ive seen the email 
correspondence between D and the relationship manager from June 2019 onwards, which 
says this would need to be considered as part of the new loan. So although it wasnt formally 
requested at this point, I think the bank made it clear that there was a possibility this may be 
a condition in some way. 
Mr W also says that had D been told on 13 December before going to the auction that this 
was likely to be a condition of the new loan, they would have looked elsewhere for finance. 
However, Im not persuaded it would have been possible to arrange the required finance in 
four days or that the terms would have been different with another lender. So I think the way 
D purchased H initially was likely to be the same, but with the expectation that the loan was 
received in a reasonable timescale to repay the interim borrowing.
The main issue here appears to be the new condition regarding the dilapidation costs 
relating to G. Neither party agree on who raised the issue of the early exit of Gs lease, but I 
dont think thats a key point as Santander had concerns about the level of Ds liability, which 
was uncertain at this point. And ultimately, the outstanding liability would have had an impact 
on Ds affordability or cashflow at some point.I acknowledge Mr Ws comments that G wouldnt have suffered any dilapidation costs as it 
was in a better condition than when it took over. However, this isnt Ds judgement to make 
and therefore I think its reasonable that the bank wasnt able to simply accept Mr Ws word 
for this and required confirmation from the Gs leaseholder before it could proceed with the 
additional borrowing.
Ive seen evidence from Santander which shows the bank was aware of the tight time frame 
of the auction and wanted to support D wherever possible. Ive also seen the banks case 
notes and the discussions that took place with the underwriters, which explained the reasons 
behind the dilapidation condition request. As a service, we're governed by rules set by the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They're called the DISP rules and 
can be found in the FCA's handbook. These rules set out how we approach complaints, in 
this case DISP rule 3.5.9(R) allows me to accept commercially sensitive evidence in 
confidence. Ive agreed and accepted this with Santander, and therefore I wont be 
commenting further on the specific evidence it has provided regarding this point. However, 
Id like to reassure D that Im persuaded by the banks rationale behind this decision.   
I understand that it wasnt ideal for the conditions to be finalised on the day of the auction, 
and that this caused inconvenience to D. But Ive seen evidence that there were ongoing 
discussions within the bank from the date the formal request was submitted by the 
relationship manager, until the morning of the auction. So I think the bank was doing as 
much as possible to ensure D could make an informed decision about the purchase of H. 
However, Santander has acknowledged the timing didnt leave D much opportunity to 
discuss the conditions with the bank and paid £500 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. I think this was reasonable.
Mr W says he was surprised that Santander required a charge over H, and that it was unfair 
for the bank to expect D to cover the valuation costs, but I dont agree. I can see that when 
DH was valued in December 2019, it was expected to be worth £1,500,000, but the updated 
valuation was £1,150,000 - significantly lower than expected. Therefore for the bank to 
provide the £900,000 loan that D had requested, it needed additional security to be able to 
meet its risk requirements. I think this was reasonable as the alternative would have been to 
decline Ds request for the lending. 
I also think it was fair for Santander to request D to pay the valuation costs, as these types of 
fees are standard for borrowers to obtain commercial lending. But I can see that D did have 
to chase the bank for an update on when the valuations would be completed, which caused 
it inconvenience, given it needed to get the loan urgently from Santander which meant 
completing the banks conditions as soon as possible. Santander has acknowledged it 
should have communicated better with D and paid £200 compensation. As the timing of the 
valuations didnt delay D getting the loan, I think this is reasonable.
I can see that the main delay in Santander in providing the loan relates to the dilapidation 
costs for G and agreement for D to be released from its contract early. I can see that this has 
caused stress for Mr W and inconvenience for D, but this appears to stem from the delays of 
the leaseholder  rather than the bank. I can see that the leaseholder was affected by the 
Coronavirus pandemic, which delayed its own assessment of G, and therefore confirmation 
that the banks terms could be met. But I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for the 
actions of the leaseholder, or the impact of the pandemic. 
Mr W says that because Santander made the mistake with the loan conditions, that it agreed 
to provide an interest free overdraft to D. He also says that D was unable to undertake the 
renovations to H as required, which meant it couldnt take on as many students as expected 
and therefore lost a significant amount of income. I acknowledge Mr Ws frustration that the 
call recording for this isnt available where the overdraft was discussed. However, Ive seen the banks records which dont show the increase was agreed on an interest free basis. Im 
also not persuaded that Santander would have offered an interest-free facility, because even 
if the new loan had been agreed on the original mortgage terms, D would have still been 
paying interest on it - albeit at a lower rate. 
I think the bank did try to assist D where possible to assist with its cashflow shortfall, albeit 
not in the way that D wanted. I say this because Ive seen evidence that Santander extended 
Ds overdraft from £50,000 to £150,000 for around eight months as a temporary measure as 
it had used its available funds to buy H at the auction. And I can see that Santander has 
already refunded D the overdraft interest and charges of around £700. I think this was 
reasonable. The overdraft charges which D has raised as part of its CBIL complaint will be 
dealt with under a separate reference. 
Mr W has told us that this has been a really distressing time, and that D has been heavily 
impacted by Santanders actions. I understand why he feels the bank is responsible for this 
and that the compensation paid isnt enough. But after considering all the information from 
both parties, I think Santander has done enough to put things right by paying £700 
compensation and around £700 in overdraft charges. So I wont be asking it to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman