DRN-2467511
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund a disputed 
transaction made from her account. And shed like this refunded. 
What happened
Mrs N has a bank account with Halifax.
On the 22 September 2019 a transaction of £345 was made via an online card not present 
transaction to an airline, Ill call P, using Mrs Ns debit card. Immediately prior to the 
authorised payment a transaction for the same amount was attempted to P  however this 
was declined because of an incorrect security code. Two days later Mrs N says she checked 
her online banking and noticed a pending transaction to P which she didnt carry out, so 
contacted Halifax to dispute it. Mrs N explained to Halifax that she lost her debit card the day 
before the disputed transactions.
 
Halifax looked into Mrs Ns dispute. But concluded she most likely authorised it. In summary 
they said the device and IP addresses recorded were the same that Mrs N normally uses. 
Mrs N didnt accept Halifaxs conclusions so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ns complaint. They contacted P to ask about the 
transactions but the airline wasnt able to confirm details about who purchased the tickets. 
After reviewing all of the evidence our investigator concluded that Mrs N most likely 
authorised the transactions and reached this conclusion because:
Mrs N hasnt been consistent in explaining when she last saw her card. 
The same IP address was used previously to log into Mrs Ns online banking.
Shes not seen evidence that Mrs Ns phone was used to carry out the disputed 
    transaction  but on balance she thinks its likely it was the case. 
Mrs N didnt accept our investigators view so it was referred to me for a decision. On 
reviewing this case I came to the same conclusion as our investigator but expanded on the 
reasoning. 
I wrote to Halifax and Mrs N on the 1 December 2020 with my provisional decision. And I 
gave them until the 15 December 2020 to respond. Neither Halifax or Mrs N responded, so I 
extended the deadline to the 29 December. Ive not received a reply from either party  so 
Ive proceeded to issue my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not changed the outcome from my provisional decision. And Ill explain 
why below. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Generally, Halifax can hold Mrs N liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that she made or authorised it herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs N genuine long card number and 
CVV were used to make the disputed transaction. But the relevant regulations  the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017  say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Halifax to 
hold her liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mrs N consented to the transaction being made.
For a fraudster to carry out the disputed transaction theyd need access to Mrs Ns debit 
card. Mrs N explains that she lives with her husband and children, normally keeps her card 
in her wallet in her handbag and likely lost her card just before the disputed transaction. I 
accept its possible someone could have obtained Mrs Ns card or long card number and 
security code to carry out the transactions. 
 
But, from what Ive seen so far, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that 
Mrs N authorised the transaction. This is because:
Ive seen evidence from Halifax that the IP address the transaction was carried out 
from is the same one used to access Mrs Ns online banking the day before. 
Halifax have explained that the device used is the same one Mrs N normally uses for 
her online banking  but Ive not placed significant wait on this because Halifax 
havent been able to provide this evidence to our service. However on balance, I 
think its likely this was the case. And this leads me to conclude a fraudster would 
have likely needed access to Mrs Ns mobile phone and know the password which 
Mrs N advises was required to access it. 
No further attempts were made after the disputed transaction. After the disputed 
transaction was processed Mrs N had over £2,500 remaining in her current account. I 
find it odd a fraudster wouldnt attempt further transactions  considering Mrs N didnt 
report the fraud for two further days. Id expect a fraudster to spend as much money 
as quickly as possible.
Im satisfied purchasing an airline ticket isnt what Id expect a fraudster to do on 
obtaining a victims card details.
 
Mrs N advised our investigator she contacted P and they informed her the airline tickets 
werent purchased in her or her husbands name. Our investigator also contacted P but they 
werent able to confirm who purchased the tickets. Ive considered Mrs Ns argument here. 
And, I realise this will disappoint Mrs N but this doesnt change my overall thoughts. I say 
this because whether or not the tickets were purchased in Mrs Ns name doesnt necessarily 
indicate if Mrs N authorised the transaction or not. According to the relevant legislation 
Mrs N doesnt need to have carried out the transaction herself  instead Halifax are entitled 
to hold her liable if she authorised someone else to carry it out. 
 
From what Ive seen so far I think, on balance, Mrs N authorised the disputed transaction. 
And therefore I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further here.
 Ive not received a reply from either Halifax or Mrs N. Ive reconsidered my outcome but I 
see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. And therefore 
I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman