DRN-2223688
The complaint
Mr M, who is represented by a third party, says he was mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a credit card with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) in August 2005. 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld.
In my provisional decision dated 10 September 2020 I explained why I was not intending to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I set out an extract below:
.Im unable to agree that the PPI was added to Mr Ms card without his knowledge. I 
think he decided, based on HSBCs recommendation, that it was a useful thing to have 
and so he decided to go ahead and take it out.
Mr M told us about a medical condition hed had since 1988. I can see that potentially it 
might be something he wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim for under the 
policy. However, and without wishing to suggest the condition wouldnt have been a 
concern to Mr M, Ive not seen anything to suggest that this condition led to him taking 
time off work to the extent that hed need to make a claim on the policy.
Ive also noticed that Mr M says he made a claim on the policy for 11 months. Id like to 
know more about that, from both Mr M and also HSBC, who I assume will have details on 
file about this claim.
That means as things currently stand, Im not able to uphold Mr Ms complaint based on 
what we know so far.
In considering all other aspects of the case, I think Mr M was eligible for the cover which, 
at 79p per £100 of the outstanding credit card balance, appears to have been an 
affordable charge. The policy would have covered accident, sickness and unemployment. 
It could have reduced Mr Ms balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the event of a 
successful claim. Mr M told us he had some sick pay entitlement from his work. He also 
said that family members could have helped him meet his card payments for up to 12 
months. Given that the policy would pay out for 12 months  and in addition to Mr Ms 
existing benefits and financial resources  it looks as if the cover would have been useful 
to him. The offer of family help is always good to have, but individual circumstances can 
easily change over time.
Its possible HSBC couldve provided more information about the policy and the things the 
policy didnt cover. But, other than the medical condition Ive mentioned above, I havent 
seen anything to show Mr M could have been affected by any of these. So I dont think this 
information would have changed Mr Ms mind about talking out the policy.
Which means I dont think HSBC has to pay back any of the premiums to Mr M as I cant
see that the PPI was mis-sold.
We sent the third party representing Mr M and HSBC a copy of my provisional decision. 
Mr Ms representative didnt come back with anything to add. 
HSBC told us it didnt have anything to add  and one of our adjudicators has 
double-checked to see if they have any information about Mr M making a claim on his policy, 
which they dont.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Given that Mr M hasnt come back with any further evidence or information and Ive now had 
clarification form HSBC that Mr M didnt make any claims on the policy, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision.
It follows that I dont think Mr M has lost out as a result of the PPI and so I will not be 
requiring HSBC to take any action to compensate him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and explained in my provisional decision I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman