DRN-4432368
The complaint
Mr H complains Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) undervalued his car after it 
was declared a total loss under his motor insurance policy. He also complains about the 
service he received, and that his car was disposed of without his consent. 
What happened
Mr H has comprehensive motor insurance with Skyfire. The policy started in September 
2021. 
Mr H says he reported his claim to his insurer in May 2022. He expected his car to be 
repaired so took photographs and made a video of the damage before the vehicle was taken 
by the recovery company.
Mr H was told his vehicle would be taken to approved repairer but it wasnt. Instead it was 
collected by the salvage company bypassing the approved repairer. 
In June 2022 Mr H was told his vehicle would be written off and he was offered £4,000 
initially, and the offer increased to £5,000. Mr H says he declined the offer and was 
instructed to supply images of similar vehicles that were available at the time. 
Mr H sent the information to Skyfire but didnt receive a response. In August he says he was 
presented with three valuations ranging from £6,050 to £6,608; and was offered £6,266 plus 
compensation for £125. 
Mr H requested estimates from approved repairers and the engineers report. Mr H didnt 
agree with the report provided and so asked that an independent engineer carried out an 
assessment. But Skyfire refused. 
Skyfire accepted it took too long to deal with Mr Hs concerns and complaints. So, it offered 
him £125 but Mr H says the offer is inadequate.
Mr H says his vehicle has been undervalued and hes unable to replace his car with the 
settlement hes been offered. Mr H obtained his own report as to the repairs to his car and 
the estimate is £3,000 less than that of Skyfire. So Mr H says Skyfires report is fraudulent. 
Mr H no longer had access to the courtesy vehicle which caused him financial hardship. Mr 
H says the whole matter has affected his life and hes been unable to work due to the stress 
caused. He wanted Skyfire to repair his vehicle but it didnt, and then it offered him less than 
the market value to replace the car. Mr H says he lost £350 excess and 21 years of no 
claims bonus which he says will affect future insurance premiums. 
Because Mr H wasnt happy he complained to Skyfire. He wants Skyfire to pay his costs plus 
interest for obtaining the independent report, pay compensation for negligence, delays, and 
stress caused by the mismanagement of the claim. He also wants it to pay for the fuel that 
was in the car at the time of the accident, which was around £80, and £8,000 for the 
valuation shortfall plus interest and compensation for delay. 
Skyfire said its in-house engineer assessed the market value of the car and followed the 
Financial Ombudsman Services guidelines to ensure a fair valuation. It used three motor 
industry guides which gave a value of between £6,050 and £6,608 so its offer of £6,266 was 
an average of the guides. Skyfire increased its offer to the top end of the valuation provided 
by the guides of £7,000. Skyfire acknowledged Mr H had sent in higher valued listing but it 
wouldnt be able to make an offer at that level. It also offered £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr Hs car was also salvaged without his knowledge after hed told 
Skyfire he wanted to retain it. So Skyfire also awarded £500 for the error. So Mr Hs total 
redress offered was £900.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response from Skyfire so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. She said she thought Skyfires 
decision to write off the car was reasonable based on the evidence she had seen. Our 
investigator said the valuation of £7,000 offered by Skyfire was reasonable as it was in line 
with the valuations she had obtained. Our investigator agreed the delays in the handling of 
the claim were significant and so she upheld this part of the complaint. She also said £500 
offered by Skyfire was reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Skyfire arranging for the car to be scrapped. In resolution our investigator recommended 
Skyfire increase the settlement to £7,000 and increase the compensation from £900 to 
£1400 given the delays. 
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained the valuation for his vehicle was too low, and that the 
report provided by Skyfires engineers was overexaggerated. He also didnt agree with the 
use of trade guides to assess the value of his car. Because Mr H didnt agree the complaint 
has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr H. My role 
here is to look at whether Skyfire acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and within the 
terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the claim. 
Declaring the vehicle a total loss 
Mr H complains that his car wasnt inspected properly before the decision was made to 
declare the vehicle a total loss. He was told the car was being collected by a repairing 
garage to undertake the necessary repairs. But that didnt happen. Mr H took some 
photographs of the damage and condition of the vehicle. One of Skyfires agents considered 
the condition of the car and other available evidence, and decided the car was uneconomical 
to repair and so it was a total loss. This appears to be fair and Skyfire is entitled to do this 
under the terms of the policy. 
Its worth noting that Skyfires engineers will have expertise in assessing the damage and 
value of cars. And it wouldnt be in Skyfires interest to pay for the total loss of a car where it 
might be economical to repair it. 
Given the cost of repairs was significant, especially given the value of the vehicle, I think 
Skyfire fairly considered it to be uneconomical to repair. As such its a total loss regardless of 
whether its repairable. And I think it was reasonable it did that. Skyfire has provided this service with its engineers estimate of repairs following its review of 
the vehicle. Mr H has provided his own report of the required repairs. Mr Hs report confirms 
the car suffered moderate impact damage to the left-hand front and says, At the time of our 
inspection no structural damage to this vehicle was present, nor was any visible 
steering/suspension damage. The repairs total £3,169.75 against a vehicle valuation of 
£6,625. So, almost 50% of the value of the vehicle. I can see from this report there is some 
recommended work to the vehicle which would likely increase costs further.  For example it 
does also say it would suggest a wheel alignment check but hasnt costed doing so. Co-Op 
say their estimate includes the cost of the alignment check. 
Ive considered both reports carefully and Im satisfied its fair for Skyfire to rely on the advice 
of the engineer it instructed. I say this as its very specific and details the repairs required, as 
well as the labour costs involved. 
Car valuation 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
Under the terms of the policy Skyfire must pay Mr H the market value of the car at the time 
of loss.
Mr Hs policy says, the insurer will not pay more than the market value of your car at the 
time of the loss or damage, less the total excesses and any unpaid premium. The policy 
defines market value as, the cost of replacing your car with one of a similar make, model, 
age, mileage, and condition based on market process at the time of the accident or loss.  
I need to consider whether Skyfire used the right market value for the car under the terms of 
the policy. Standard practice is to use industry accepted trade guides which are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices by reputable dealers. I have seen 
copies of the valuations used by Skyfire. 
Skyfires policy says its approach to the valuation is to reflect accurately the market value of 
the vehicle prior to the incident. Its starting point is the available guides referred to above. 
Skyfire reviewed its initial valuation and increased it to an average of the three guides. But 
Mr H remained dissatisfied so it referred the valuation for another opinion. Following that 
referral the valuation was increased to £7,000 which is in line with what Ive seen in the trade 
guides. 
Mr H complains that Skyfires figure is lower than the prices he was able to find and he didnt 
see a comparable car for the price of the settlement value. He provided a number of adverts 
for similar cars to his own which showed a variance in price. But the variance in price 
demonstrates that valuing a car isnt an exact science. The guides are based on transaction 
data  actual selling prices, to give a more realistic indication of a cars valuation than 
adverts, which dont account for any negotiations that take place over the sale price. 
As explained above the guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling 
prices. So, while individual cars may be advertised at a higher or lower price, the guides give 
an average value of a car with its specific characteristics. Skyfire offered £4,000 initially, and 
then £6,608; before ultimately increasing the valuation to £7,000. Mr H remained dissatisfied 
with the level of settlement. And while I accept there were delays in Skyfire reaching a 
valuation figure I cant say it has done anything wrong in valuing the car at £7,000. I say this 
because the offer is based on the guides. 
Customer service I can see Mr H had to contact Skyfire on numerous occasions in order to find out what was 
happening with his car, and to chase up the repairs to the vehicle. And then found his car 
had been disposed of. The service provided by Skyfire has fallen short of what I would have 
expected. Skyfire didnt provide Mr H with updates regarding the vehicle repairs, and there 
was confusion in the communication regarding whether the car would be written off and why. 
Skyfire awarded Mr H £400 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. I will come 
back to this point further down. 
The car was scrapped when it shouldnt have been 
I am sorry to note Mr Hs car was disposed of when he had specifically told Skyfire he 
wanted to keep it. I have seen notes from Skyfire that show there was a hold placed on the 
car. Unfortunately the car was cleared for salvage and Skyfire accept the failure in service 
here. It offered Mr H £500 by way of an apology for what happened. And while I know this 
wont help Mr H get his car back, its a fair award to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. 
Claim progression 
The claim for the damage to Mr Hs car remains open and is still progressing. Skyfire has 
taken some steps in dealing with the claim but I would have expected it to have been more 
proactive in resolving the claim for Mr H  and to have kept him updated throughout the 
claim. And so I am upholding this aspect of the complaint. 
Compensation 
Having reviewed all of the documentation its clear to me an award is due for the distress this 
whole episode caused Mr H. I can see there were significant delays in the handling of the 
claim, and Skyfire disposed of Mr Hs car despite him making it clear he wanted to keep it. I 
can see Mr H has been frustrated at having to chase Skyfire for updates and information. 
Skyfire offered Mr H a total of £900 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Our 
investigator recommended Skyfire pay a further £500 taking the total compensation to 
£1,400. Ive thought about this carefully and I think £1,400 is a fair offer given the level of 
impact the matter has had on Mr H. 
I recognise Mr H feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my response. But I 
think the valuation of the car is reasonable, and the compensation is fair to reflect the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
Skyfire should;
Pay Mr H £7,000 in settlement of his claim for his vehicle; less any excess or interim 
payment already made,
Add interest to the difference at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the 
original settlement offer to when the complaint is settled,
Pay Mr H £1,400 for the distress and inconvenience caused, less any payment 
already made.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and direct Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited to resolve this matter by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman