DRN-3542518
The complaint
Mr P complained that a claim for his dog, M, made under his pet insurance policy was not 
upheld by Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd. Mr P has also complained 
about the service he received.
What happened
The policy commenced on 17 January 2021. M was taken to the vet on 22 May 2021
with shoulder pain. He was reluctant to run when on walks. M was given anti-inflammatory 
pain relief but returned to the vet at the beginning of July 2021. Mr P enquired about 
physiotherapy and an X-ray and CT scan were recommended to confirm the diagnosis of 
forelimb lameness.
CGI said it wouldnt cover the treatment as M showed clinical signs of the condition
prior to the policy beginning - M saw a vet in July 2020 with neck and back pain.
Mr P provided information from various vets and specialists to show the condition M is now 
being treated for is not related to the issues in 2020. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She didnt think the evidence 
showed that M had a pre-existing condition. She also recommended that CGI pay £125 in 
compensation for poor service.
CGI agreed with the recommendation to settle the claim and pay £125 in compensation. It 
made a payment to Mr P but didnt explain how the payment was reached. It hasnt 
responded in detail to our further questions so the case has been passed to me to issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the policy doesnt provide cover for conditions which were in existence 
before the policy start date. Although this now seems to be accepted, for completeness I 
agree that the evidence weve seen doesnt demonstrate that Ms condition commenced 
before the policy started. Although M was seen by the vet on 22 May 2021 the evidence 
doesnt demonstrate that this was a related condition. As the disputed claim has been made 
for a new condition - lame right fore - CGI should now meet the claim, subject to the 
remaining policy terms and limits. It follows too that I find it would be unfair to add a 
retrospective exclusion for all claims with respect to the spine and back from the policy 
commencement.
I recognise a payment has been made to Mr P but its not clear what is was for or how 
calculated. For clarity CGI should provide a breakdown of the claim payment.
Mr P is entitled to interest on the amounts he has already paid  he will need to provide 
receipts if required by CGI in order to calculate interest due to him.
I agree that compensation was due for the service Mr P received. Anxious about M, Mr P 
had to chase CGI for information. On one call the staff member was less than courteous. I 
note that Mr P has itemised the time spent on this claim, but Im satisfied a payment in the 
sum of £125 is a fair amount for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay the claim made relating to Ms lame right fore, subject to any policy limits
For all amounts paid by Mr P in relation to this claim, interest* to be added at 8% 
simple per annum from the date payment was made until settlement
Provide Mr P with a breakdown of how the payment has been calculated
Pay Mr P £125 in compensation, if not already paid
*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks/ask for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman