DRN-2170358
The complaint
Mrs W would like to make a complaint against her insurers Royal and Sun Alliance 
Insurance PLC (RSA) who has declined her claim under her home insurance policy. 
Reference to RSA also includes its agents where applicable.
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs W had a fire at her home. Some of her furniture had to be specialist 
cleaned. In June 2019 she noticed that some areas on an item of furniture that had been 
cleaned, was peeling. She contacted RSA, to make a claim. 
RSA said that the peeling was caused by wear and tear and relied upon its exclusion clause 
and declined the claim. Mrs W was upset by this as she said that her furniture had been in 
good condition prior to the fire and cleaning and disputed that there was wear and tear. She 
said that the damage was either caused by the cleaning process or the fire. She also had 
photos to show that it had previously been in good condition.
RSA said that the cleaning solution used was the same solution used on other furniture that 
was also cleaned at the time. But, those items of furniture didnt react. So, RSA felt that the 
damage was caused by wear and tear and not the fire as this had been mainly smoke. It 
maintained that her claim remains declined. Mrs W was unhappy with this and referred her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She agreed that there wasnt enough evidence of 
wear and tear as the furniture had been in good condition before the incident. She also said 
that there was no evidence from RSA that could show that all types of leather react in the 
same way, under the same cleaning process. She concluded that RSA should replace the 
furniture.
RSA didnt agree with our investigator. It said the damage to the furniture was caused by 
wear and tear and not by the fire or cleaning. It relied upon its report, the exclusion clause 
and some photos.
RSA asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 29 July 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 28 
August 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
I must consider this complaint impartially and look at whether RSA acted fairly when it 
declined Mrs Ws claim. In doing so I have looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, 
the report from RSAs expert and the photos of the furniture. I have also taking into 
consideration Mrs Ws testimony. 
Policy 
RSA has relied upon the exclusion clause in the policy. Which says: 
Exclusions which apply to the whole policy:  
9. Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by, or
resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin (except
for cover 6 under Home Emergency cover), fungus, condensation, fading, frost or anything
that happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation or
restoration
Its clear from this term that any damage caused gradually or through the process of 
cleaning, excludes the policy holder from making a successful claim. The question here is 
whether the damage can be classed as wear and tear?
Mrs W said that the furniture was in good condition and didnt show signs of wear and tear. 
But RSAs expert who examined the furniture reported that the leather had worn off in 
patches and the edge cord was completely worn away on both sides. It noted that the 
underside of the furniture, which hadnt been cleaned by its expert, was also worn away and 
because of this wear and tear was evidenced. 
I have seen the photos produced by both sides. Whilst I can see that much of the item 
seems to be in good condition, parts which RSA has said are of high traffic use, do appear 
to be worn away. If the chemicals in the cleaning products used on the furniture caused the 
damage as Mrs W said, I think it would be reasonable for damage to have occurred in other 
areas as well. So, I am persuaded by RSAs expert that the damage was caused by wear 
and tear.
I have next looked at the timeline and what I can see is that the fire happened in January 
2019. In February 2019, RSA had the furniture cleaned by the specialist cleaners. In April 
2019, RSA closed the claim. But in August 2019, Mrs W complained to RSA about the 
peeling. So, it was around six months after the furniture had been cleaned, that Mrs W 
noticed the peeling. 
RSA has said that had the cleaning been the issue with the furniture, the peeling wouldve 
shown up much sooner than the six months later when Mrs W reported the damage. So, I 
agree with RSA that it is reasonable that the damage could only have been caused by wear 
and tear given the time between the cleaning and when Mrs W noticed the peeling.
RSAs  reportI have looked at the report that RSA relied upon from its expert. I can see that it contains an 
outline of the damage and it concludes that the damage was caused by wear and tear. I 
must assess the report to see if it was reasonable for RSA to rely on it and I think it was. I 
can see that it contains an outline of what Mrs W said caused the damage. It mentions what 
was used to clean the furniture. And it concludes that the damage, which amounted to worn 
patches was caused by wear and tear. It also states that the damage wasnt as a result of 
the cleaning process. 
I note that the specialist cleaner attended site, inspected the furniture and reviewed the 
photographs. I am satisfied that the report gives a persuasive explanation as to the cause of 
the damage. So, I think its reasonable that RSA relied upon the expert report when it 
declined Mrs Ws claim. I understand that Mrs W is disputing the report. Unfortunately, 
without any evidence to the contrary, that could support her position, I can only proceed on 
what has been presented. 
So, I dont intend to ask RSA to do anymore. But if Mrs W does wish to provide expert 
evidence that supports her opinion, I will consider it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman