DRN-2058813
The complaint
Miss R says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss R opened an account with Drafty in May 2018. The account was an open-ended 
flexible credit facility which allowed Miss R to borrow funds up to her credit limit of £810 and 
then repay what shed borrowed in monthly instalments. Miss Rs credit agreement says that 
if she immediately borrowed the full amount available and repaid this in 12 equal monthly 
instalments, shed repay £91.85 per month.
An adjudicator considered Miss Rs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Miss R 
didnt accept the adjudicators view, so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R could 
repay the flexible credit facility in a sustainable manner and in a reasonable amount of time. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
Before deciding to approve the facility for Miss R, Drafty asked her to provide some 
information about her monthly income and expenditure. Miss R said her monthly income was 
£1,250 and she declared £500 of monthly expenditure, broken down into categories such as 
mortgage/rent, utilities and credit expenses. Drafty also carried out a credit check, which in 
my view didnt highlight any significant concerns about the way Miss R had been managing 
her finances in the recent years before her application to Drafty. I can see that the credit 
check did show Drafty that Miss R had around £15,200 of existing debt, which is the 
equivalent to about one years worth of the income Miss R declared. But overall, I think the 
checks Drafty carried out were proportionate, bearing in mind everything it knew about 
Miss R and the potential maximum monthly repayment. So I dont think Drafty acted unfairly 
by approving the facility for Miss R as it appeared the monthly repayments were affordable 
for her.
Ive also looked at the way Miss R used the facility after it was approved. Miss R fairly 
quickly drew down the maximum amount possible between May and June 2018. In August 
and September 2018 two more drawdowns of £250 and £135 were made. Miss Rs account 
had only been open for about four months by September 2018 and I dont think the way it 
was used up to this point ought to have caused Drafty to be concerned.
From January 2019 onwards, it seems Miss Rs account stayed at around its maximum limit 
and Miss R didnt make much progress in repaying it. New drawdowns were modest but 
ultimately this was because there wasnt much more Miss R could borrow. Four new 
drawdowns of around £32 each were made between January and July 2019.
Had these new drawdowns continued for any longer than they actually did, I wouldve said 
Drafty ought to have reviewed Miss Rs financial situation in more detail, to ensure her 
account could still be repaid in a reasonable amount of time. But I think that it was just about 
still reasonable for Drafty to allow Miss R to make the four drawdowns she requested in 
2019. Im not aware that Miss R contacted Drafty to suggest she was in financial difficulty 
during this time and its reasonable for Drafty to have waited for some sort of regular pattern 
to emerge before proactively contacting Miss R. By the time of the drawdown of July 2019, I 
think its fair to say a clear pattern of only making minimal repayments and then immediately 
reborrowing had emerged. So no further drawdowns should have been allowed after this 
point (unless additional and proportionate checks suggested they were sustainably 
affordable, which is unlikely based on the evidence Ive seen). As no further drawdowns 
were made after this point, I do not find that Drafty treated Miss R unfairly during the time it 
allowed her to make drawdowns from this account.
Miss R has suggested Drafty had full access to her banking data and so ought to have 
realised she was relying on loans as a form of income. But Ive not seen evidence Drafty had 
this level of access to Miss Rs finances, so this point doesnt change my decision.
I realise this will be disappointing for Miss R but my decision is that Im not upholding her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman