DRN-4447626
The complaint
Mr M complains BPO Collections Limited have harassed him about a statute barred debt. He 
also says theyve breached the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).
What happened
My understanding is Mr M purchased a laptop on a credit agreement through a company 
which no longer exists  Ill refer to them as P. The agreement for this laptop wasnt kept to, 
and the debt was sold to another company Ill refer to as J, before P ceased trading. 
J instructed BPO to collect on the debt. So, BPO are a debt collector, but dont own the debt 
themselves.
When BPO got in touch with Mr M he said the debt was statute barred, BPO should know 
this, so they were harassing him unnecessarily. He wasnt happy with BPOs request to 
provide personal information to identify himself. Mr M also said in contacting him BPO had 
breached GDPR. When making his complaint Mr M said he wanted a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) to find out who gave BPO his information, and to stop any further action 
against BPO hed accept £2,500 compensation for the illegal letter, breach of GDPR, 
harassment and impact to his mental health.
In their response BPO explained J had acquired the debt from P and J had asked them to 
get in touch with Mr M to recover the debt. They said theyre required to carry out security 
questions to verify theyre talking to the right person  but are now satisfied he is the right 
person because he received the letter they sent and because of information he provided in 
his emails.
BPO said they can contact anyone regarding a statute barred debt but arent permitted to 
enforce it. They didnt think theyd breached GDPR, theyd process the DSAR as soon as 
they could and overall didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They did however say sorry 
and explained given Mr Ms comments theyd return his debt to J so hed never hear from 
them again.
Unhappy with this Mr M asked us to look into things  saying BPO had breached GDPR in 
responding to his complaint as well.
One of our Investigators considered things, but overall thought BPOs apology was sufficient 
to resolve matters.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for his concerns to be passed to an Ombudsman, but he didnt 
provide any further information to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain up front Im required to take into account the law, as well as the regulators 
rules and regulations, plus what I consider to be good industry practice, but ultimately, I need 
to decide the outcome of this case on a fair and reasonable basis. I wanted to explain this 
because I cant decide if Mr M has been harassed, or if this debt is statute barred, only a 
court can. Instead, Ill consider whether BPO handled things fairly.
After J asked BPO to collect on the debt BPO used a tracing agency and wrote to Mr M at 
the address they found for him. In response, Mr M has said the debt is statute barred  hes 
not said the debt is his, but equally hes not said the debt isnt his. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest BPO carried out the trace incorrectly, and our Investigator explained this in detail to 
Mr M  on which hes not pointed out anything obviously wrong. So, I dont think BPO did 
anything wrong initially in tracing Mr M and nor do I think theyve breached GDPR at this 
point.
I also dont think theyve done anything wrong in contacting Mr M about the debt. I say this 
because Ive seen nothing to suggest J didnt ask BPO to collect on the debt. And as BPO 
arent the owner of the debt, I think theyve acted in good faith asking for it to be repaid. I 
understand Mr M says the debt being statute barred means theyve harassed him in asking 
him to repay it. But as I mentioned before I cant legally decide if the debt is statute barred 
nor can I decide if Mr M has been harassed in asking for repayment of it. Ultimately, Im 
satisfied BPO acted in good faith asking Mr M for repayment of the debt.
Ive noted Mr Ms further concerns about BPO breaching GDPR when they replied to his 
complaint. BPOs explanation for this is they were satisfied Mr M was the right person given 
he received the letter they sent, and information he provided in his emails. Its unclear what 
information specifically BPO were referring to. But there isnt anything Mr M has said or done 
which suggests he disputes the debt is his  so, in the absence of this and without any 
concerns about BPOs trace, I think theyve acted fairly in contacting Mr M and dealing with 
him.
I know Mr M is also unhappy that when processing his DSAR, BPO again asked him to 
identity himself. Financial businesses having identification processes in place to ensure they 
only provide sensitive data to the right person seems sensible to me. But, if Mr M has 
additional concerns regarding this, then he could ask the Information Commissioners Office 
to look into things.
Overall, I dont think BPO did anything wrong. Despite that, theyve said sorry for any 
distress caused to Mr M. In the circumstances, Im satisfied thats a fair outcome to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman