DRN-3436632
The complaint
Mr F complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) shouldnt have placed his order 
to purchase shares because the price had risen. This meant the shares cost more than the 
quote he received, and more than the cash balance he held. He was forced to sell shares to 
put his account back into credit. He wants HSDL to compensate him for his losses and to fix 
its systems.
What happened
Mr F has an execution only share dealing account with HSDL. On 7 June 2021, he placed an 
at best order online to purchase 50 shares in a company listed on the US stock exchange. 
Ill refer to the company as B.
When Mr F placed the order, trading in B had been suspended ahead of an expected 
announcement. The indicative price Mr F received was based on the latest price before 
suspension. The order was dealt when trading resumed. But the price had risen in response 
to the announcement. Mr F was quoted US$286.43, but the shares were traded at US$440. 
This meant the trade cost around £5,000 more than he expected.
HSDL told Mr F it hadnt done anything wrong and that he needed to bring his account back 
into credit by introducing cash or selling some shares. Mr F decided to sell enough B shares 
to bring his account back into credit, but he had to sell at a lower price than hed bought 
them. He says the purchase order should never have been dealt because HSDLs terms and 
conditions limit any international share purchases to 90% of the tradable funds available.
HSDL said there was a substantial price movement when the shares started trading again, 
which was outside of its control. It said it had carried out the trade in line with its order 
handling policy and that Mr F could have cancelled the trade, or placed a limit order, to 
mitigate any loss.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there 
was any reason for HSDL not to proceed with the trade and that it wasnt responsible for 
Mr Fs loss.
Mr F didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
HSDLs terms say it may reject an order if the tradeable funds are insufficient at the 
point of execution to cover the whole amount of the deal (8.7). And that it should have 
either not carried out the order or adjusted it to match the amount of tradable funds in his 
account.
By not following its own terms, HSDL is putting its customers in a position where they are 
open to unlimited losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that my role is to resolve individual disputes between 
businesses and consumers. Mr F says he wants HSDL to change its systems to prevent 
what has happened to him from happening to anyone else. But I dont have the power to tell 
a business how it should treat all customers or how it develops its policies. Thats a matter 
for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
It's important to the outcome here that Mr Fs account is an execution only account. When 
placing any orders, HSDL was not obliged to give him any advice on the suitability or 
appropriateness of what he was doing. It was Mr Fs responsibility to decide what he wanted 
to purchase, and when he wanted to do so. I think, in all likelihood, he would have been 
aware of the imminent announcement, the fact that trading in the shares had been 
suspended, and that there was a widespread expectation that, when trading re-opened, the 
share price was likely to rise considerably. I think he would have been aware of the risk that 
the price he had to pay for the shares would be considerably higher than the indicative price 
he received when he placed his order.
But Ive gone onto think about what HSDLs terms and conditions say about rejecting orders 
and international orders, and whether HSDL should have reasonably cancelled, or reduced, 
Mr Fs purchase order.
Ill quote in full the terms that apply here:
8.7
We may reject your order where:
(a) your account does not contain sufficient tradable funds for the relevant deal or 
any other orders to purchase investments you have placed but that have not yet 
settled. If tradable funds are insufficient at the point of execution to cover the whole 
amount of the deal, we reserve the right to either:
(i) not carry out any part of the deal;
(ii) adjust your deal to match the tradable funds in your account; or
(iii) where the deal is a purchase of investments which are listed on international 
markets, we may proceed in accordance with Condition 8.22.
8.10
Once we have accepted your order we cannot accept any responsibility for any 
actual or potential financial loss or expense that you incur if, for any reason (other 
than our negligence), there is a delay or change in market conditions before the 
execution of your order is complete.
8.22
When purchasing investments which are listed on international markets we will, 
acting reasonably, notionally limit your order to 90% of the tradable funds in your 
account, We do this to limit the risk that a sudden adverse change in market 
conditions or exchange rates means that your obligation to settle exceeds your 
tradable funds. However, should such a change occur and your obligations to settle 
exceeds your tradable funds, you will remain liable to settle the deal in full.
Im satisfied that, when Mr F placed the order, the price he was quoted meant the order 
didnt exceed 90% of the tradable funds in his account. I dont think it was unreasonable that 
the quote he received was the latest price before trading was suspended. And, as noted earlier, I think its more likely than not that he was aware trading was suspended and that the 
price was likely to rise substantially when his order was dealt. I find that, when HSDL 
accepted his order, he had enough money in his account to pay for it.
I find that term 8.10 covers what happened here. Market conditions meant that, when trading 
recommenced, there had been a change in the price. And that, in these circumstances 
HSDL dont accept any responsibility for any actual or potential financial loss or expense 
that you incur. Unless that loss was incurred through HSDLs negligence. I dont find HSDL 
acted negligently here. I say that because HSDL reasonably accepted an at best order, 
and it was dealt as soon as practicable after trading recommenced in the shares.
Term 8.22 also covers the position where there is change in market conditions for an 
international order. It says, should such a change occur and your obligations to settle 
exceeds your tradable funds, you will remain liable to settle the deal in full. This reasonably 
recognises that, whilst the 90% limit will cover most situations, there are some more unusual 
circumstances, such as what happened here, when the cost of the deal will exceed the 
consumers cash balance because of a change since the order was placed.
I appreciate Mr F feels HSDL is in breach of term 8.7. And that it should have cancelled or 
adjusted his order. But I dont find the term required HSDL to cancel or adjust the order. Mr F 
placed an at best order knowing trading in the shares was suspended and that the price was 
likely to rise considerably. I dont think it was HSDLs responsibility to limit his losses by 
cancelling the trade. It follows that I dont find HSDL needs to reimburse Mr F for the loss he 
made in having to sell shares to bring his account back into credit.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman