DRN-4220327
The complaint
Ms B complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
She says that HSBC didnt do enough to protect her from becoming the victim of a scam and
wants it to refund the money she has lost
What happened
In June 2021, Ms B was looking online for investment opportunities in Amazon shares. She
entered he details into a website that she found through Google and was then contacted by
phone by an individual from a company called cryptotrader. 
This individual persuaded Ms B to invest in cryptocurrency rather than the Amazon shares 
she was originally interested in purchasing.
Ms B originally began sending money via another bank  B but was then persuaded to
transfer the money via HSBC instead.
Ms B was then pressured to pay more money in order to upgrade to VIP status. However,
suddenly her supposed profits and initial investment crashed on the online portal she had
been given access to by cryptotrader. It told her that she needed to top up her account in
order to save her money.
It told her she needed to invest a further £14,000 in order to secure the money she had
already paid  but Ms B did not have these funds. Reluctantly, she paid two more payments
of almost £10,000. Cryptotrader then sent her back £3 and £4997, before pressuring her to
pay even more money.
When Ms B refused to do this, cryptotrader cut communication with Ms B, and she realised
she had been the victim of a scam.
She complained to HSBC, but it didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms B then brought her complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. Ms B
remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint explaining that I planned to 
uphold the complaint in part. 
Both parties agreed to my provisional decision, HSBC as a gesture of goodwill, so now I will 
formalise it in this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Was Ms B the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in dispute here that Ms B was the victim of a scam. She was persuaded
to invest in cryptocurrency rather than the Amazon shares she originally wanted to purchase
and was manipulated into paying more money to reach certain levels. The scammer also
paid Ms B money when she asked questions of it  no doubt to entice Ms B into paying more
and convince her of its legitimacy. When Ms B would no longer part with any more money,
the scammer cut communication with her.
Ms B made the following payments from her HSBC account to the scam. I have also
included the payments the scammers made to Ms B.
Date Payee Payment type Amount
9 July 2021 N Debit Card £4,513.38
14 July 2021 S Debit Card £4,997
14 July 2021 S Debit Card £4,998
19 July 2021 S Debit Card £4,998
22 July 2021 S Debit Card £4,997
22 July 2021 S Debit Card £4,998
9 August 2021 N/A CREDIT +£3
9 August 2021 N/A CREDIT +£4997
Net loss £24,501.38
Did Ms B authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Ms B isnt liable for payments
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
I dont think its in dispute that Ms B authorised the payments in question here - they were
made using her own debit card while she still thought she was paying money to a legitimate
source
I understand Ms B had been tricked into instructing HSBC to make the payments  but while
Ms B never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact she
authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of Ms Bs payments
After Ms B made the payments, I wouldnt expect HSBC to do anything further until it wasnotified of the scam.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are
resolved between card issuers (here, HSBC) and the merchant (here, N and S).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would unlikely have been successful. This is
because N and S are legitimate crypto exchanges and provided the services that Ms B had
requested of it  the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a wallet of
Ms Bs choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is therefore a
separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would likely never have been possible 
and so, I dont think that these payments were recoverable once they had been made.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that HSBC reasonably ought to have prevented
some or all payments Ms B made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before it
happened.
Ms B authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Ms B made  and if HSBC should have
intervened.
The first two payments
Having considered the first two payments Ms B made, Im not persuaded that HSBC should
have intervened at this point. Ms B was not using her account that much prior to the
payments taking place  but the amounts paid werent altogether sufficiently unusual
amounts for a customer to be paying through a current account  they were also five days
apart.Payment three
Payment three was the second payment made on the same day  taking Ms Bs daily spend
to almost £10,000  and it was the third payment in five days to a seller of crypto. While not
all payments made to crypto are as a result of a scam, I do think that the daily spend
coupled with where the payment was going to should have prompted HSBC into action
especially given that by January 2019, HSBC should already have had a good 
understanding about how scams like the one Ms B fell victim to work.
HSBC should have got in touch with Ms B to establish if this payment posed a possibility of
placing her in financial harm before continuing with the payment. I wouldve expected it to
have questioned Ms B about the payment  including what she was making the payment for
and surrounding context and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or
uncover a potential fraud or scam.
Ms B had been contacted by another business previously while making earlier payments 
and she was questioned about what she was doing and why. Ive listened to the
conversation that the other business had with Ms B, as this Service has been provided with
the call for another complaint that she has brought.
Having done so, I think that there were things that this business could have done much
better than it did  and Ms B asked questions of it which the business didnt fully answer. So,
Im unable to say Ms B was given a meaningful warning elsewhere but continued to make
payments, and that an intervention from HSBC wouldnt have had any further effect on what
Ms B did.
HSBC should have contacted Ms B itself to complete its own investigation into what was
happening  and so it missed an opportunity to prevent the loss from this point.
Should Ms B bear some responsibility for the loss?
While I do consider that HSBC should have prevented the payments from payment three, I
do need to consider if Ms B should bear some responsibility for what happened here by way
of contributory negligence. Ms M is already bearing some responsibility for the loss as I am
not recommending that HSBC repay the first two payments.
But I dont think that Ms B should bear responsibility for payments three onward. Ms B was
not a sophisticated investor  so she was not the expert here. The scammers asked Ms B to
provide identification documents and fabricated professional looking online-portals with
which she could apparently see her real time balance. The scammers also allowed Ms B to
make several withdrawals to prove their legitimacy. HSBC was the expert here and wouldve
known more of the intricacies of how scams like this work.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Ms B the total of the last four payments  minus the payments that were
returned to Ms B by the scammer.
I calculate this to be £14,991.
On top of this HSBC should also pay Ms B 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date
of the payments to the date payment is made to Ms B (less any lawfully deductible tax).My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman