DRN-3665488
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt make its fees for currency 
payments clear and that it provided poor service.
What happened
A asked that US Dollars 50,000 be paid from its currency to sterling account. It received less 
sterling than it expected and later found out that a margin of 2.6% per cent had been 
applied. A says this should have been disclosed and was unreasonable. It also received an 
inward payment of US Dollars with an unexplained deduction of $35. And it was dissatisfied 
with the level of service provided and how long it took to get any answers.
Lloyds said that the exchange used to convert the money included a margin of 2.6% and that 
as A hadnt booked a rate or called about the transfer there was no guarantee when it would 
go through. The deduction from the other payment was one made by the sender of the funds 
and so not something Lloyds would notify. It said that A is supported by a group of 
telephony-based managers. And they wouldnt be making contact with A to discuss 
requirements but were available if it wanted. Lloyds accepted that it hadnt provided answers 
to all the questions and understood A was unhappy with the service and so after the 
complaint was referred to this service it offered to pay £100.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Lloyds do anything more than this. She said that 
each financial business would set its own exchange rate. A could have called and booked a 
rate but it didnt do so. No error had been made. Lloyds had now explained that the 
deduction from the other payment inward was one made by the sender. Taking into account 
the time until Lloyds explained what happened she thought that the compensation was 
reasonable. And Lloyds didnt offer one to one relationship management with As account.
A didnt agree. The director said that insufficient weight had been given to the absence of 
transparency in the fee. This should have been disclosed before the payment and as part of 
the post trade report. This had only been disclosed some three months after the trade. The 
level of fee was outrageous, and A wouldnt have proceeded had it known. The impact for 
what A received from this payment was some £1,000. And when Lloyds issued its final 
response it wrongly said that the complaint was upheld.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 July 2022. I set out below what I said.
Id asked Lloyds through our investigator for some more information about what happened. 
Lloyds provided details of the information A gave in branch when the transfer was requested. 
It said that a rate would only have been booked if the amount was over £50,000 equivalent. 
Id also asked it about information on its website regarding foreign exchange margins and 
stating that these could be lower for payments over £25,000. Again, it said that if a rate had 
been booked a margin of 2.364% would have applied with a difference for A of around £85.
I could see that A wrote to Lloyds first to request the transfer in a letter dated 28 November 
2021. A says it received a response on 8 December 2021 by letter stating that Lloyds had 
tried to get in touch. I hadnt seen a copy of that letter. But I knew that following this the 
director then went to a branch. The transfer was made on 15 December 2021.
As indicated above Id seen information on Lloyds website about foreign exchange margins. 
And this indicates that standard margins apply automatically. The relevant ones here are a 
margin of 2.6% on payments up to £25,000 and then 2.1% on the specific element of the 
payment over £25,000 and up to £50,000. There is an online calculator and as Lloyds says 
that produces an overall margin on the sterling equivalent amount here of 2.364%.
The margin on foreign exchange payments is clearly publicly available information and it 
should have been an easy matter to deal with any questions from A about this. As our 
investigator says financial businesses set their own commercial exchange rates and we 
dont have a role in saying whether any rate used is reasonable. And its common that the 
rate given includes that margin and isnt separately identified. 
When A first wrote to Lloyds it didnt know what exchange rate it would obtain or when the 
transfer would be made. It didnt seem to request any indicative rate or compare that to what 
might then be available at any other financial businesses. It went into a branch. Neither A 
nor Lloyds have explained what if anything beyond completing a form was discussed. It 
doesnt seem from what Lloyds says that in any event a rate could have been booked from a 
branch. A gave instructions and these were executed. 
I was still unclear why A wouldnt have benefited from the sliding scale of margins I referred 
to above. If a process meaning that it couldnt book a rate in branch overrode the margin 
reduction then that seems to be an unfair result in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint as A had contacted Lloyds central team first. And based on what is stated on the 
website I thought A could reasonably now expect to have benefitted from that lower margin 
whether or not a rate had been booked. In this case I considered it fair that A is refunded the 
potential £85 difference noting that Id additionally given Lloyds the opportunity already to 
explain this in full.
I didnt have anything to add to whats been said about the $35 deduction on the other 
payment. And the nature of relationship management offered to A is a matter for Lloyds.
In the final response Lloyds seemed to accept that A may have been caused inconvenience 
by not getting clear answers and having to visit a branch after the transaction. So, I didnt 
see the heading of the letter was incorrect although of course A hadnt been offered any 
compensation then. And the time to respond to a complaint is about complaint handling 
which isnt a regulated activity. And this wouldnt have prevented A referring its complaint to 
this service if thered been no written response after eight weeks.
I reviewed the compensation offered by Lloyds. Taking into account the delay in answering a 
simple question and the ongoing inconvenience for A then I considered that the appropriate 
amount taking into account our published guidelines is £200 and this should be paid along 
with the refund of part of the fee of £85.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said it didnt have anything further to add.A said that it remains of the opinion that it should have been informed about the specific 
charges. It accepted based on what I said that these generally were publicly available. A still 
wanted a contract note showing the charges so it could properly account for this and as 
requested by its accountant. A said that the lack of the paper trail was a significant omission. 
It accepted the proposed compensation.
Im afraid I wont be requiring Lloyds to produce any documentation about this transaction 
other than it has already. A has referred to this as a charge but as I explained in my 
provisional decision it is a margin commonly applied by financial businesses to market 
exchange rates. A was made aware of the exchange rate applied by Lloyds. 
So, I wont be departing from the conclusions of my provisional decision for the reasons Ive 
already given.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay A a 
total of £285 as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman