DRN-3868992
The complaint
Mr N says HSBC UK Bank Plc, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his 
credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr N used his HSBC credit card to make payment for flights. He bought 
them through a website Ill call Firm T who arranged the three connecting outbound flights 
to be supplied by two different airlines and the same return flights with the same airlines. Mr 
N was due to fly in late November 2021. Mr N didnt fly.
Mr N has said that he was denied boarding, firstly because his reason for travelling wasnt 
allowed and latterly he has said because one of the connecting flights didnt take place. So 
he complained to Firm T, but he was unsuccessful in getting all his money back. So he 
complained to HSBC.
HSBC says it considered the matter and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund 
him. It pointed to evidence from Firm T as to why Mr N was denied boarding and the terms 
of his contract with it. It has also said that there wasnt the required relationship between 
parties for HSBC to be held responsible. And it didnt think a Chargeback had a reasonable 
prospect of success. So Mr N, still unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt HSBC didnt have to do anymore. And Mr N remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N used his HSBC credit card to pay Firm T for the flights. This means that if certain 
criteria are met HSBC can have certain responsibilities to Mr N which arise from the relevant 
law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in 
certain circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr N to hold HSBC liable for 
breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In 
essence HSBC can be held responsible for a like claim against the supplier.
Also Mr Ns HSBC credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by another 
company. And this scheme has rules which includes giving HSBC an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as Firm T, namely through the Chargeback 
process. This isnt a right for consumers and the ultimate decision maker on such 
chargebacks is the scheme itself and not HSBC. So it is possible that HSBC could take the 
chargeback as far as possible and Mr N still not be successful.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about HSBC and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr N fairly. This decision isnt about airlines or 
Firm T, which arent within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and 
S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could HSBC challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr N doesnt dispute that he used his HSBC credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think HSBC couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr N didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
HSBC is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
HSBC did raise a chargeback here and indeed continued to argue the case after Firm T 
raised its initial defence. So clearly HSBC did support Mr Ns position for some time.
Firm Ts defence to the chargeback was that Mr Ns reason for travelling was for pilgrimage 
and that was specifically not allowed by the destination countrys government rules. I have 
seen two separate emails sent by Mr N to different entities on this matter within 24 hours of 
being denied boarding where Mr N makes clear his reason for travel. In one he says I was 
declined to embark on my trip for (another word for pilgrimage) today and in the other he 
says I was refused two seats on (flight number) because at the check-in desk I was 
informed that pilgrims to (destination) were banned from entering the country. Mr N has 
later said he was denied boarding because one of the connecting flights didnt fly. 
Ive considered Mr Ns evidence for the argument that particular flight didnt fly. I note two 
important factors about this evidence, one it is regarding a different airline and secondly it 
says that flights are suspended-but then goes on to clarify that this suspension doesnt 
apply to certain groups of travellers. So the implication is clear that certain groups of 
travellers could indeed fly. The Investigator in this case accessed historical information about 
scheduled flights and explained to Mr N that he could see that all three flights did indeed 
take place. Ive rechecked this information and I can see, not only that the flights did fly, but 
also details about take-off and landing times and other information which demonstrates the 
flights took place. Firm T has also pointed to evidence to HSBC that the flights did take 
place.
So all in all considering everything here I am satisfied on balance that Mr N was travelling for 
pilgrimage, that he was denied boarding due to his reason for travel was pilgrimage and that 
all three flights actually flew on time as per the tickets he purchased.
Ive looked at Firm Ts terms and conditions and it makes clear that it isnt responsible for 
any denied boarding issues due to travel requirements imposed by destination governments 
or other immigration or travel requirements. The tickets are also non-refundable. So I see no 
reason for any refund to be provided.
So having considered what happened here and I think it likely that had HSBC continued with 
its chargeback, it would have been ultimately unsuccessful. So I can see why it considered 
that the chargeback no longer had a reasonable prospect of success when it decided to not 
take the chargeback any further. So I dont think Mr N has lost out because of what HSBC 
did.
Section 75Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ns claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. I appreciate both HSBC and the Investigator have passed significant 
comment on this issue. However Im not persuaded I need to make a finding at this point 
because for other reasons I have decided that HSBC doesnt need to do anymore in relation 
to this complaint. 
For HSBC to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr N which 
was untrue and that led to loss.
Ive already established that the flights were available for Mr N to use and it was his 
responsibility to ensure he would be allowed to travel to the destination country not Firm Ts. 
Hence it is clear there is no breach of contract as Firm T booked the flights as instructed and 
they were available (had Mr N met the requirements for travel imposed by the destination 
authorities). And so its clear that Firm T didnt breach the contract Mr N had with it as it 
supplied the tickets and wasnt responsible for ensuring Mr N met the authorities 
requirements-Mr N was. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence of Mr N being told by Firm T 
something that was untrue which he reasonably relied upon and which then led to his loss. 
So without any misrepresentation or breach of contract here by Firm T, HSBC cannot be 
held to a like claim and thus doesnt have to refund Mr N. 
It would be unfair on HSBC to have to pay out in these circumstances as it doesnt have 
responsibility for the restrictions in place because neither did Firm T. I appreciate the 
reasons why Mr N wasnt allowed to travel, and I appreciate my decision means hes lost 
out. But Im not persuaded HSBC has treated Mr N unfairly in its consideration of Mr Ns 
dispute with Firm T. So his complaint doesnt succeed.
For completeness I shall address another of Mr Ns arguments. Mr N has pointed towards 
getting a significant refund and says that if Firm T hadnt done anything wrong then why did 
he get such a refund. I agree that had Mr N received no refund at all, that would be in line 
with the terms and conditions of what was agreed. And had he received no refund it would 
not change my stance with regard to whether HSBC had done anything wrong or not. It 
would appear likely from the size of the refund it doesnt relate to the airline he was using for 
the first part of his three-flight journey to his destination but more likely to be in relation to the 
second and third flights which were operated by the national airline of his destination 
country. So it would seem possible he was refunded because either those tickets were re-
sold or due to a commercial decision by that airline. Irrespective of the reason Im not 
persuaded HSBC has done anything wrong by not refunding Mr Ns outstanding amount just 
because Mr N got some money back.
So all in all Im satisfied that HSBC hasnt done anything wrong here which requires remedy. 
Im satisfied Mr N was responsible for ensuring he could fly and was denied boarding due to 
the restrictions in place which Firm T werent responsible for. Im satisfied the flights flew on 
schedule. So I see no persuasive reason for HSBC to refund Mr N and accordingly it hasnt 
done anything wrong by not doing so.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr N wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Ns avenues for recouping the remaining cost of the transaction will be 
significantly limited. But this does not mean that HSBC has done anything wrong in dealing 
with the issues arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund him.So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr N has said, Im not persuaded 
HSBC has treated Mr N unfairly. So I dont think HSBC has done anything else wrong here 
which requires further action. And as a consequence Ive decided that Mr Ns complaint 
shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. It 
has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman