DRN-2947763
The complaint
Mr T complains about the Ongoing Charge Figure (OCF), charged by Financial 
Administration Services Limited, referred to as FASL or the business.   
Hes unhappy that the rate is higher than the rate charged by a different provider, in respect 
of the same fund.  
What happened
Mr T invested in the Fidelity Money Builder Income Fund (the fund) with FASL, which 
charges an OCF of 0.56%, as set by the fund manager.  
He recently found out that a third-party provider charges an OCF of 0.36%, for the same 
fund, which is 0.20% less than what he was paying. 
FASL didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that it had no control over the other 
platforms and their charging structure, and that its charges were consistent with FASL and 
non-FASL customers. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Its not our role to regulate a business, therefore we cant ask it to change its 
charging structure. 
Its up to the individual fund manager to decide what itll charge when different 
providers offer the same fund. It isnt up to FASL. 
Its not fair to blame FASL for the decision of a third-party provider, which in this 
instance decided to apply a 0.20% loyalty bonus (or discount) to the fund. Because 
the OCF for the fund is still the same, at 0.56%, and set by the fund manager.   
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, he said:
Our service has no regulatory power to prevent the semantic trickery and lack of 
transparency thats been to the detriment of many of its customers. And by having 
no such regulatory power it is in effect endorsing this behaviour. He wonders what 
the point of our service is. 
He doesnt understand why he wasnt told by the fund provider to contact the FCA. 
Hes unhappy that the fund provider allowed the third-party to apply this discount, 
and this has left him out of pocket. 
The provider hasnt kept him up to date.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr T says, Im not persuaded that 
FASL behaved unreasonably. In other words, Im not persuaded that the business did 
anything wrong by charging a 0.56% OCF, as set by the fund manager.  
Just because the OCF charged by a different provider for the same fund was comparatively 
lower, doesnt in my opinion mean that FASL has done anything wrong.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ts strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr T and FASL, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
As I understand, fund managers set their OCF  previously known as total expense ratio  to 
give an indication of the cost of investing in their fund. In this instance it was set at 0.56%, 
which in my opinion it seems FASL quite rightly followed and was obliged to follow. 
Its not clear upon what basis the other provider was able to offer a rate that was lower than 
the rate set by the fund manager for the same fund. It might be that it was a one-off special 
offer and the other provider was able to absorb the cost in a different way  its not for me to 
provide an answer to this. 
If the OCF  as set by the fund manager  was made clear by FASL, which on balance Im 
satisfied that it was, and Mr T agreed to it, I dont think the business behaved unreasonably, 
just because another provider was somehow able to provide a lower rate. 
Whilst I appreciate what Mr T says about being out of pocket, I dont agree that he was by 
paying the correct OCF that was set by the fund manager. I appreciate that Mr T will most 
likely disagree with my conclusion, but I dont think its unreasonable in the circumstances.
Even if the FASL had some discretion to apply a different OCF to the rate set by the fund 
manager, I still couldnt safely say that it did anything wrong. FASL, in the reasonable 
exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, wouldve been entitled to charge the OCF 
set by the fund manager. It wouldnt be for us to tell FASL how to run its business. 
In this instance, I have no authority to ask FASL to change its charging structure. And whilst 
I note what Mr T says, Ive seen no evidence of trickery or lack of transparency on the part of 
FASL. 
I appreciate that Mr T thinks that a fair resolution would be to refund him the difference in 
charge, but I dont agree, because I dont think FASL has done anything wrong by charging the OCF at 0.56% as set by the fund manager. Therefore, theres no justifiable basis upon 
which I can reasonably ask the business to refund Mr T the difference. 
I appreciate Mr T will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the available 
evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman