DRN-2898585
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car he has been financing through a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle Finance) was mis-represented to him.
  
What happened
In June 2019, Mr K acquired a used car which he financed through a 60 month
hire purchase agreement with Oodle Finance. The cash price of the car was £19,950, it was 
around four years old and it had travelled over 53,800 miles. For the purposes of this 
decision, I will refer to the model of the car as A. 
In September 2020, when Mr K was registering a private number plate, he discovered the 
car wasnt the model that was advertised when it was supplied to him. His car (model A) was 
a two wheel drive however the car he thought he acquired, was a model that had a four 
wheel drive. I will refer to this as model Z. Mr K contacted the car manufacturer and they 
confirmed based on the original registration, the model of the car was A.
Mr K was unhappy as he felt he had been misled. He said when searching for cars, he 
purposely sought model Z only and the advert by the dealership said it was this particular 
model. He said model Z was more expensive than model A therefore he believed he had 
been charged a higher amount than what it was worth.
Mr K complained to Oodle Finance. They said they had spoken to the dealership who said 
Mr K had been told the model was A and not Z before he acquired the car but no evidence 
was provided to support this. The dealership said there wouldnt be a significant difference in 
price between the models, around £450. Oodle Finance accepted the pre-sale information 
said it was a Z model but said this couldve been an error. They said having looked at 
adverts for both models, they found an average price difference of £500. They offered this 
amount to Mr K to settle the complaint as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with their response, Mr K referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. He believed the car had been advertised incorrectly. He 
recommended Oodle Finance pay £750 to reflect the difference in price between the two 
models and also pay £100 compensation. Oodle Finance accepted the opinion but Mr K 
disagreed and said he wanted to reject the car.
The investigator asked Oodle Finance whether they would be willing to consider the rejection 
of the car such as refunding the deposit but not the monthly payments as Mr K had use of 
the car. They didnt agree, stating Mr K has had the car since June 2019. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide.
As part of my investigation, I had a conversation with Mr K to get a better understanding 
about what happened. In summary, he told me that his brother had the Z model car which he 
had the opportunity to drive and he liked it so when looking for cars, he only looked for that 
specific model. He said based on the advert and the badge in the car, he had no reason to 
think the car wasnt the Z model. Had he known it wasnt the Z model, he said he wouldnt 
have acquired the car. Lastly, Mr K reiterated he wanted to reject the car as it was incorrectly 
advertised. 
In May 2020, I issued my provisional decision upholding the complaint. I said:
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result, our service is able to look into complaints about it. The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 is the relevant law in the case and it says that in some 
circumstances the supplier of finance may be liable for any misrepresentation and 
antecedent negotiations made by the credit broker and/or supplier of goods. So, in this case 
as Oodle Finance supplied the car to Mr K, Im satisfied I can look into this complaint about 
them.
Misrepresentation
Mr Ks complaint is about misrepresentation so I must consider:
1. Whether a false statement of fact has been made; and
2. Whether this false statement induced him to enter into the agreement to acquire the car.
Having considered the advert that Mr K saw before acquiring the car, I can see it states its 
model Z. Mr K said there was a badge in the car saying it was a model Z which Oodle 
Finance has also acknowledged, they also accept the advert said it was model Z. The car 
manufacturer has confirmed its model A and the log book supports this. On this basis, Im 
satisfied there was a false statement of fact.
So I must now consider whether this false statement of fact induced Mr K to entering into the 
agreement and I believe it has, Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr K has said throughout this complaint. From the outset, 
he said when looking for cars, he only wanted the Z model and he believed the main feature 
of this particular model was it was a four wheel drive. He said he looked for no other models 
nor cars but this one. He said he had no reason to question or doubt the car wasnt the Z 
model given the advert and the badge and as soon as he realised it wasnt the Z model, he 
complained immediately to Oodle Finance. Mr K said if hes allowed to reject the car, hes 
aware that its likely he wont be refunded the monthly payments he has made throughout 
the agreement. Despite this, he still wants to reject it and if rejection isnt allowed, he said he 
would explore other options like voluntarily terminating the agreement or seeking permission 
from Oodle Finance to sell it because its not the model he sought and believed he acquired. 
Taking everything into account, I find Mr Ks submissions to be persuasive and consistent 
about only wanting the Z model, this was a key consideration for him when searching for 
cars.
According to the dealership, they made Mr K aware that it wasnt a Z model before entering 
into the agreement meanwhile Oodle Finance say it may have been an error. I found these 
to be contradictory remarks as to whether or not this issue was indeed brought to Mr Ks 
attention.
Alongside the advert, Ive looked at the paperwork and documentation provided at the point 
of sale as it may give an indication about what was discussed. Both the agreement and the 
invoice dont specify whether its model A or model Z, nor does it mention whether the car is 
a two or four wheel drive. However I do note there is paperwork showing that there was a 
slight price reduction of the car of £100 due to a chip mark on the bonnet. I believe its likely 
this was negotiated between Mr K and the dealership before he entered into the agreement 
which suggests there was some discussion about the car. Had the dealership told Mr K that the car was the A model with a two wheel drive rather than the Z model with the four wheel 
drive, Im not persuaded he wouldve acquired it so I dont believe there was a discussion 
about that particular issue meaning Mr K could only rely on the advert.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the false statement of fact about the model of 
the car induced Mr K into entering the agreement, meaning a misrepresentation has been 
made.
As Ive found there was a misrepresentation, the remedy is to put Mr K back in the position 
he wouldve been in had the misrepresentation not been made. In order to do so, I believe 
its fair Oodle Finance ends the agreement and allows Mr K to return the car with nothing 
further to pay. 
As the car has been in Mr Ks possession for almost two years and he has travelled over 
8,000 miles, I believe its reasonable that he pays to reflect this usage therefore I wont be 
asking Oodle Finance to refund the contractual monthly payments. However they should 
refund the deposit amount he paid plus interest. Mr K has been driving and paying for a car 
that has been misrepresented to him and he will now have to acquire another one so I think 
its also fair that Oodle Finance pay £200 compensation to him for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Other 
I note Oodle Finances comments that they wouldnt consider rejection because the car had 
been in Mr Ks possession since June 2019. This implies they arent convinced there is 
sufficient grounds to say Mr K was induced by the advert. Even if I was to accept that was 
the case meaning the considerations for a misrepresentation hadnt been met as stated 
above, as Mr K has rightly pointed out, the car was mis-described to him. 
The relevant law here is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and section 11 concerns the 
description of goods that are supplied. In summary it says Every contract to supply goods 
by description is to be treated as including a term that the goods will match the description. 
The CRA goes on to say where goods dont conform to the contract and there is a breach of 
terms, remedies are available which include the final right to reject.
Ive already explained above that Im satisfied a misrepresentation has been made. However 
even if that wasnt the case, I believe there was also a breach of contract as the car didnt 
match the description of the advert when Mr K acquired it and based on the CRA it offers the 
final right to reject the car, meaning the agreement would come to an end which is what Im 
awarding for the misrepresentation, therefore the outcome is the same.
Response to my provisional decision 
Both parties were invited to respond. Oodle Finance provided no further comment. Mr K 
responded and in summary he said:
- He accepted he had to pay for the months he used the car;
- The Z model was more expensive than the A model so he believes the price of the 
car was incorrect meaning he has been paying more than he should;
- As he was given a two month payment holiday due to Covid, he agrees Oodle 
Finance can deduct a certain amount from the total to reflect this
- The length of time to resolve the complaint should be taken into consideration. - He is vulnerable due to his health and this matter has caused further stress and 
anxiety so he doesnt believe £200 compensation is enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has commented that he believed model Z was generally more expensive than model A. 
He has also said he was told by the car manufacturer there could be a difference of up to 
£4,000 for the models. I havent been provided with documentary evidence to support the 
same and its unclear whether the car manufacturer was referring to new cars or used cars, 
bearing in mind Mr Ks car was around four years old when it was supplied.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said about the price of both models and the 
adverts theyve provided.
Its a long established approach of our service that when considering the valuation of a car, 
we rely on motor trade guides. We find these guides to be persuasive evidence of market 
value, mostly because their valuations are based on nationwide research of likely sales 
figures. We consider them more reliable than individual adverts because cars often dont sell 
for the advertised price. So in this case, I believe its fair to rely on these trade guides to 
determine the market value of both models in June 2019 which is when it was supplied to Mr 
K. I found model A ranged from £15,900 to £15,400, while model Z ranged from £15,900 to 
£15,230. Therefore I cant agree there was such a significant difference in price as Mr K has 
suggested so Im not persuaded he paid more for the car on the basis it was a Z model when 
it was an A model. 
While I appreciate it has taken some time for the complaint to be resolved and Mr K said he 
has maintained his payments throughout, as outlined in my provisional decision, during this 
time, Mr K has still had use of the car so I believe its fair he pays to reflect that use. I note 
there was a deferral period applied to the account due to Covid so its also fair this is offset 
against the refund of the deposit. Ive taken into consideration what Mr K has said about the 
impact of this matter on his health and Im sorry to hear he has been going through a difficult 
time but I believe £200 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. 
 
Putting things right
 To put things right, Oodle Financial Services Limited should:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mr K to pay; 
- Collect the car at no cost to Mr K;
- Refund the £3,226.50 deposit less the deferral period plus pay 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment up to the date of settlement;
- Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ks credit file,
- Pay £200 compensation to Mr K for the trouble and upset caused.
If Oodle Financial Services Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest part 
of my award it should provide Mr K with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so 
he can reclaim that amount if he is entitled to do so. 
My final decision For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman