DRN-2025796
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
which it called the Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
What happened
Mr Z took out an URCA in August 2010 following a conversation with Bank of Scotland.
The URCA provided a range of benefits including phone insurance, travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover, home emergency cover and a fee free overdraft of up to £300 for a 
monthly fee of £12.50.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Zs complaint and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. Mr Z 
disagrees so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Zs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Zs complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking about whether Mr Z was aware the URCA was optional and whether 
he was given a clear choice in taking the account.
I think its more likely than not that he was. 
Mr Z has told us hed had a fee free account before he took out the URCA so he knew he 
didnt have to pay a fee for an account.
Mr Z says he was told by Bank of Scotland that he needed to have a URCA to get an 
overdraft and to improve his credit score. Whilst I dont doubt Mr Zs honest recollections, I 
think after the years that have elapsed, Mr Zs memory is mistaken. 
I say this because I think its more likely than not that he wouldve been aware at the time of 
sale or shortly thereafter that fee free accounts with overdrafts were easily available to him 
from Bank of Scotland and other banks and financial businesses as these were widely 
advertised. And while the URCA did provide him access to discounted overdraft facilities, not 
having one didnt exclude him from having an overdraft from Bank of Scotland.
Mr Z says he took out the URCA because he was told that the URCA would improve his 
chances of getting a higher overdraft by improving his credit score. But his credit score 
would not have been connected in any way to the URCA he was opening. He didnt request 
an increase in his overdraft until nearly four years after opening his account. And if he had 
taken the URCA and then realised it didnt affect his credit score or he wasnt going to use 
an overdraft, he could have cancelled his account and kept used a fee free one, but he 
didnt, and he still had the URCA until recently. And Ive said above I think he was aware that 
free accounts with overdraft facilities were available. So, in my view I cant say its more 
likely than not he was told he had to have an URCA to improve his credit score when he 
opened it and just accepted this, as I would have to uphold his complaint on this point.
So, I think Mr Z was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Mr Z to take it, but Mr Z 
says it did. Ive not seen any evidence such as a record of a discussion about his personal 
circumstances to show that Bank of Scotland did advise Mr Z. And based on this services 
knowledge of Bank of Scotlands business practices at the time, I think its more likely than 
not that Bank of Scotland didnt advise Mr Z to take the URCA.
So, Bank of Scotland only needed to provide Mr Z with enough information about the URCA 
to make an informed choice. 
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think Bank of Scotland did tell Mr Z 
about the URCA is some detail as it was trying to sell the account to him. And I think it would 
have been of interest to him. I say this because hes told us he travelled regularly at the time, 
and he registered for the mobile phone insurance shortly after opening the account. He 
benefitted from the better overdraft arrangements when he went overdrawn, in particular, 
avoiding the £1 a day charge that Bank of Scotland made on its fee free accounts.  He could 
use the car breakdown assistance whether he was driving a car or simply a passenger and 
he could have taken advantage of the purchase protection and other benefits offered.
From what Mr Z has said about his personal circumstances at the time he took out the 
account, there was nothing that would stop him taking advantage of the URCAs benefits.
Mr Z says he had alternative arrangements for some of these things. But it wouldve been for 
him to end those and use his account when he wished to. And it was also for him to close 
the account if he no longer wanted it at any time.
For completeness, Mr Z has said that at some point he tried to transfer his overdraft from his 
URCA to a fee free account but wasnt allowed to. But Bank of Scotland has provided 
records of both accounts he has held with it. And these show requests to increase the 
overdraft level on his URCA, but no requests to increase the overdraft level on his fee free 
account. So, I think its more likely than not that his memory is mistaken on this.
So, in my view, Mr Z knew he had a choice about the URCA and decided to take it; and 
there was no information that he wasnt given that would have put him off buying it.
So, I dont think he has lost out as result of anything Bank of Scotland may have done 
wrong. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman