DRN-3755233
The complaint
Ms S complains that Phoenix Life Limited has unreasonably refused her critical illness claim.  
What happened
Ms S joined her employers group critical illness scheme on 1 October 2002. The policy was 
taken out through Swiss Life and came into force on 1 September 2003. It offers £100,000 of 
level critical illness benefit until 9 January 2029.   
In June 2005, the employee benefits scheme was withdrawn. However, Ms S retained the 
cover as a sole policyholder under the policys continuation option. By this time the policy 
was transferred to Phoenix. It sent Ms S a new policy schedule, policy booklet and 
cancellation information on 12 July 2005.  
In March 2021, Ms S was sadly diagnosed with a type of brain tumour. She underwent a 
craniotomy to remove the tumour in July 2021. She then made a claim to Phoenix for critical 
illness benefit in April 2021.  
However, in June 2021, Phoenix told Ms S that it could not pay her claim. It said that the 
medical evidence it had received showed Ms Ss condition to be a type of benign brain 
tumour (BBT), and this wasnt covered under her policy. The policy provided cover for a 
number of listed conditions, of which BBT wasnt one.    
Ms S complained in May 2021. She said that she had needed to chase Phoenix several 
times, it had made some spelling errors including her street name, and she has been caused 
confusion by it sending her further claim forms. Further, though her claim had been 
seemingly refused under the policys cancer definition, she noted on Swiss Lifes illness 
guide that it also included cover under the definition of benign brain tumour  and so 
Phoenix should have paid a claim.  
On 21 July 2021, Phoenix replied to the complaint. It upheld the complaint in part, noting that 
the claim had been handled fairly and correctly but its administration was below the standard 
it should be, having made typographical errors and issuing duplicate information. For that, it 
offered Ms S £50 compensation. 
Ms S sent a further letter dated 5 August 2021. She said she would not accept any 
compensation offered to her, as it was derisory, and she felt it did not adequately address 
the stress she has suffered. In August 2021, Phoenix reopened the complaint. 
In November 2021, Phoenix rejected the complaint, as it felt it had already rightly upheld the 
first complaint. However, it agreed to increase its offer of compensation to £150 plus an 
additional £5 for the postage cost Ms S had incurred.  
Otherwise, Phoenix said it did not have a copy of the Swiss Life guide that Ms S referred to. 
Ms S then supplied the guide to Phoenix, noting its additional conditions covered section 
included BBT, albeit with slightly different wording to Phoenixs guide dated 2015 - which 
had been supplied along with her claim refusal. 
She noted that whilst it may remain to be seen whether her ongoing neurological deficit was 
permanent (as required by the BBT definition), Phoenix had failed to even consider whether 
the effects of her tumour will be ongoing. Instead it had merely refused to consider the claim. 
Phoenix treated this ongoing correspondence as a third complaint. 
Phoenix then sent a second claim outcome to her in April 2022 and a further complaint 
outcome in June 2022. 
In respect of the claim refusal, Phoenix said though its senior management had reviewed the 
2003 illness guide, its decision remained the same. It explained how Ms Ss original group 
scheme was set up on a standard cover basis, which does not provide additional conditions, 
including BBT. The illnesses it covered were on the actual policy schedule issued to the 
individual policyholder, and it was clear that BBT was not part of this policy.
Phoenix otherwise recognised that though it received the third complaint in November 2021, 
it didn't acknowledge it until 23 December 2021 and it didn't send any other updates until 16 
March 2022 after Ms S had chased it further.  
It also considered the extra distress and anxiety it had caused Ms S as it hadnt been in 
touch to let her know whether the claim would be accepted or declined. Had the claims team 
dealt with the claim issues, a decision would've been sent to Ms S sooner than it was. 
Therefore Phoenix offered Ms S a further £350.00 as a result of its claim delays in addition 
to the £155.00 already offered. It also offered £250.00 compensation for the delays in the 
complaint process. This equated to a total of £705.00 compensation.
The complaint was then referred to this service. Ms S explained that she continued to suffer 
from deficit following the removal of her tumour, including memory problems and she had not 
been able to resume full-time work. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. He said he felt Phoenix had 
fairly refused the claim. He noted that whilst Ms S had a Swiss Life illness guide that 
included BBT as a claimable condition. However, her 2005 policy schedule showed she had 
standard cover that did not include BBT; he placed greater weight on this than the guide. 
Ms S disagreed. She said she did not accept the investigators findings, and wanted him to 
pass the matter to an ombudsman. She made a number of detailed further submissions, with 
the assistance of her husband. I have read these in their entirety, though I wont be setting 
them out verbatim here. In summary, she said:
though the investigator had set out that there was a standard cover applying to her 
policy, none of the documentation she had received from Swiss Life or Phoenix 
referred to the policy on that basis;
none of the documentation she holds tells her to disregard the critical illness guide 
issued by Swiss Life;
she was never told that her policy contained any exclusions;
Phoenix has regulatory obligations under Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules to 
treat customers fairly, and it is not doing so;
she also does not understand why the investigator placed reliance on the policy 
schedule from 2005  this document did not refer to conditions that were covered or 
excluded;  
Phoenix should have retained the original schedule issued by Swiss Life in 2003;when it took over from Swiss Life, Phoenix gave the assurance that the policy 
provisions would not change  so it had the duty to retain the original policy 
schedule;
as it has not done so, the benefit of the doubt should be given to her and reliance 
placed on the illness guide from 2003;
in any event, Phoenixs critical illness guide dated October 2015 also includes BBT 
as a listed condition;
this guide, in association with the updated policy schedule issued to her in 2005 
shows BBT is covered, since none of the policys exclusions apply to her;
she disagrees that it was made clear to her in 2005 that BBT was not covered as an 
additional condition;
the investigator had also said that even if it wasnt clear in 2003, it was clear by 2005 
that BBT wasnt covered;
but Phoenix could not change the policy terms agreed with Swiss Life in 2003, and it 
expressly confirmed it would not do so;
as it is, Phoenix does not hold any Swiss Life documents to refute that BBT is a 
covered condition;
any documents she has not seen should not be retrospectively applied to her 
detriment;
the Swiss Life guide says this guide gives details of all the illnesses and conditions 
which are included under a Swiss Life critical illness policy;
in her view, that is unequivocal  and BBT is a listed illness in that illness guide;
she has never received any document which says that there are any exceptions to 
the illness guide;
she notes that the Phoenix critical illness guide says this guide gives details of all 
the illnesses and conditions which may be included under a Phoenix critical illness 
policy;
however, she has never seen anything from Phoenix which set out any illnesses in 
the guide which she was not entitled to claim for;
in any event, any change implemented by Phoenix in 2005 is manifestly unfair and 
not something she agreed to;
since she believe BBT is covered, she went on to set out why she met the BBT 
definition  which was slightly different across Swiss life and Phoenixs definitions;
she worked for many years as a financial services professional and she has kept 
diligent records relating to her policy  Phoenix has not done the same;
she did not respond to Phoenixs letter relating to its offer of compensation for service 
delays, as she did not want to accept this before the complaint was finalised;
she wanted to see a copy of the entire business file supplied to this service by 
Phoenix in response to the complaint. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view on the complaint. 
Phoenix said it didnt have any further specific comments to make about the 
investigators findings. In respect of the request of the information supplied to this 
service, Phoenix said it was happy for the majority of information to be disclosed, aside 
from commercially sensitive information and it sent a complete list of documents it was 
prepared to share with Ms S.  
Ms Ss husband made some further points and reiterated their position on the complaint, 
noting, in summary:
they were not happy that Phoenix had failed to disclose every piece of information, 
as this would not be acceptable in a court;Phoenix was being given dispensation that Ms S was not privilege to;
it did not feel like natural justice to them;
they do not have any documentation relating to standard cover;
Phoenix states that Ms Ss condition is not included on the list of Critical Illnesses 
and Conditions Defined and so is not covered by the policy;
but this ignores the fact that Phoenixs Policy Conditions document states that the 
list is to be read in conjunction with the Critical Illness Guide, where benign brain 
tumour is included;
if it is also contended that exclusions and limitation applied, these should have been 
put to Ms S  but this was never the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Ms Ss illness, and I realise that things have been difficult for her and 
her husband. Though I realise this decision will also come as a disappointment to them, Im 
not able to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons for this below.  
I know it is frustrating for Ms S that as part of the transfer from a business group scheme to 
an individual policy with Phoenix in 2005, the original policy schedule has not been retained. 
However, its important to note that the policy schedule would have been specific to Ms Ss 
employer, as the group scheme operator and not Ms S specifically. Phoenix was not 
responsible for the operation of that policy. And there are time limits and justifications 
relating to data it holds, in accordance with data protection legislation.
It is my remit to make a decision on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances on the evidence Ive seen, and that includes the documentation which is 
available, along with the accounts of both parties.  
I accept that the Swiss Life 2003 illness guide for the group scheme contained BBT as a 
listed critical illness, under the policy heading additional conditions. But, I do not believe 
that being included in this document of itself is conclusive or that it reasonably suggests that 
Ms Ss individual policy included all of those specified conditions.  
I say that noting that the document is prefaced with confirmation that this guide gives details 
of all [my emphasis] the illnesses and conditions which are included under a [my emphasis] 
Swiss Life critical illness policy. 
Phoenix has explained that the guide is a generic document to encompass all Swiss Life 
policies, and I am persuaded that this is the likely circumstance. That is since schemes of 
this type have general policy guides are produced to account for different choices by group 
scheme operators; so they will encompass every conceivable benefit. The choice to include 
different levels of cover will be costed by an employer and the accompanying policy 
schedule will confirm what options have been selected and the relevant benefit level.  
Phoenix has confirmed that the policy schedule and conditions issued in 2005 (for which 
there is documentary evidence) was a continuation of the group scheme critical illness 
benefit level, with the change being that Ms S was a sole policyholder. To that end, it sent 
Ms S written confirmation on 12 July 2005 of the policy details, including the new policy 
number. In the supplied policy conditions at section two, it set out a written list of conditions 
which made up the specific terms of the policy.  Those conditions say please refer to the attached Conditions Covered brochure for full 
definitions. The following conditions are covered by this policy. Thereafter a list of 16 
conditions are given, set out in bold. BBT is not one of those conditions. 
So, I believe Phoenix is correct to conclude that the claim Ms S brings now is not one 
included within her policy conditions. I do not believe the content of the Swiss Life 2003 
document supersedes the confirmed policy terms and schedule, which Ms S received in 
2005; instead, my view is that it is more likely, on balance, that the 2005 correspondence 
merely replicated the extent of the group scheme cover from 2003  which was why no 
concerns were raised at that time since the parties agree this was a continuation scheme.  
I realise Ms S and her husband are unhappy that Phoenix will not agree to sharing its entire 
business file with them. Nonetheless, the information Ive relied on above is known to both 
parties. And, I should note that in considering complaints at this service, I am bound by the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules as set out in the FCA Handbook. I am not able to avoid 
these rules or apply discretion to certain rules. Under DISP 3.5.9 R (2), I may accept 
information in confidence from one party without disclosing it to the other in full, where I 
deem it appropriate. I believe that applies here and I do not need to compel Phoenix to 
disclose additional commercial information, notably where it is not central to this complaint.  
Finally, I leave Ms S to decide whether she wishes to rescind her rejection of the £705 
previously offered for the accepted service failures made by Phoenix. In the circumstances, I 
believe it was a reasonable amount of compensation to propose, noting that the delays and 
mistakes had a particular impact on Ms S at a time when she is suffering from the effects of 
her craniotomy. I do not consider any further action is warranted, but I trust Phoenix will 
honour this payment to Ms S if she reconsiders her refusal of its offer.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman