DRN-4050958
The complaint
Mr K complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed his current account and 
registered a default on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr K discovered Halifax had closed his account and registered a default. He didnt know 
Halifax were going to do this, so he complained. 
Halifax said they had written to Mr K to ask him to make a payment to his account or contact 
them. As no payment was received and they didnt hear from him, theyd closed his account 
and the default had been registered as he had an outstanding balance on the account when 
it was closed. Unhappy with this response Mr K referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint. He said, in summary, he 
was satisfied Halifax had written to Mr K a number of times but as Mr K hadnt responded, 
Halifax were entitled to close his account and register the default. 
Mr K didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said he was registered as paperless with 
the bank so they shouldve contacted him electronically about this issue. And he felt it wasnt 
enough that Halifax could prove they sent the letters, if they couldnt also prove he had 
received them. 
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account, the overdraft was repayable on demand  
which meant Halifax could ask Mr K to repay part, or all of it, at any time. 
The terms and conditions also say two months notice will be given if the bank decides to 
close a customers account. In addition to considering the agreement Mr K had with the 
bank, Ive also considered whether it was fair and reasonable in these particular 
circumstances for Halifax to take the actions they did. 
Mr K had this account for a number of years. I can see from the statements that it wasnt in 
regular use. Payments were made into the account sporadically, usually when the account 
was nearing, or over, the overdraft limit. 
In June 2022, the account exceeded its overdraft limit. Halifax wrote to Mr K on 19 July 2022 
to ask him to bring the account within its overdraft limit. They wrote to Mr K again on 26 July 
2022 because they hadnt heard from him. 
A further letter was sent to Mr K dated 13 August 2022, this was a formal demand for full 
repayment of the overdraft. This letter explains that if Halifax didnt hear from Mr K within 30 
days they would close his account within two months and may register a default. 
So I find Halifax gave Mr K the required notice about the closure of his account and set out 
they may decide to register a default if payment wasnt made. 
No payments were received and Mr K didnt contact Halifax. So Halifax wrote to him again 
on 21 September 2022 to explain he now had 30 days to bring the account up to date 
otherwise it would close the account and transfer it to their recoveries team.
 
Mr K says he didnt get any of the letters sent by the bank. But Halifaxs records show they 
were sent to the correct address. So I dont know why he didnt receive them, but I havent 
seen anything to suggest Halifax are responsible for him not getting them. Halifaxs 
obligation in these circumstances was to write to Mr K at the correct address, which Im 
satisfied theyve done. Theres no obligation on Halifax to prove whether Mr K did or didnt 
receive the letters. 
Mr K says as he was registered for paperless correspondence, Halifax shouldve contacted 
him about his account electronically. But I dont think Halifax had an obligation to do this. Its 
common industry practice for these types of arrears notices to be sent by post and Halifaxs 
Paper-free terms and conditions set out that some correspondence will still be sent by post 
for bank accounts. In any event, Mr K had access to online banking so he couldve seen the 
status of his account and that it was beyond its overdraft limit. Still no contact was made or 
payments made to the account. 
As no contact was received or payments made to the account, Halifax closed it and 
transferred it to its recoveries team on 25 October 2022. Im satisfied that was fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of Mr Ks case, and in line with the terms and 
conditions of his account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman