DRN-4523564
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank rejected a claim 
she made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
What happened
In 2017, Mrs G purchased a battery to connect to her existing solar panel system, which she 
paid for in part using her Tesco credit card. She alleges that the battery was misrepresented 
to her as self-funding, in that the additional savings it would generate would cover the cost of 
the system within ten years. And she made a claim to this effect to Tesco in 2022, providing 
a report which said the battery was only likely to save her about £60 per year.
Tesco rejected the claim. It said that the purchase included a 20-year monitoring plan 
covering her existing solar panel system. This allowed the supplier of the battery to monitor 
the performance of her existing solar panel system and identify any faults, which the supplier 
would rectify free of charge. 
Tesco said that based on the current cost of the monitoring plan this likely made up the 
majority of what she paid. So, the savings, even if they were only £60 per year initially, were 
likely to cover the cost of the battery within 10 years. It also noted that Mrs G had never 
contacted the supplier to express any dissatisfaction with her purchase.
Unhappy with this, Mrs G made a complaint, which Tesco rejected. She then asked the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to look into what had happened. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint be upheld, as she thought there had been a misrepresentation. 
Tesco did not agree, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold this complaint. 
Tesco responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mrs G did not respond by the 
deadline given. As such this final decision is in line with my provisional decision. I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Section 75 Tesco can be held liable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by the supplier when selling the battery and monitoring plan to Mrs G, because she used her 
credit card when purchasing it.
Mrs G alleges she was told the additional savings on her electricity bills provided by the 
battery would cover what she paid for it within 10 years.
In response to what Tesco said about the monitoring plan, Mrs G says she did not take this 
out as she already had monitoring in place from when she purchased her existing solar 
panel system.
What I have to decide is whether the alleged misrepresentation took place. To do that I have 
to look at the available evidence. That includes Mrs Gs recollection of the sale, the sales 
documents from the time, and any surrounding circumstances, such as how long it has taken 
Mrs G to raise the issue.
Where there is something that supports what a consumer has said, that will tend to make it 
easier to accept their recollection as being reliable. In this case there is nothing to support 
Mrs Gs recollection. That Mrs G took almost five years to raise the issue tends to undermine 
what she has said. In that time the supplier says she did not contact it to express any 
dissatisfaction with the purchase, which you might expect a customer to do if they are 
unhappy.
But the biggest factor here is that Mrs G says she did not take out the monitoring plan. The 
sales documents clearly and prominently suggest that she did, in that written on the middle 
of the customer purchase agreement are the words, Enphase Battery Plus 20yrs 
Monitoring. And the fact that Tesco has provided evidence from the supplier (which Tesco 
sent to Mrs G) that it is in fact monitoring the performance of her existing solar panel system.
This makes it very hard for me to uphold this complaint, as I would be doing so largely on the 
basis of Mrs Gs recollection. But, given the evidence available to me, it does not appear that 
her recollection can be relied upon as being an accurate reflection of what happened during 
the sale.
As such, I am not persuaded that the alleged misrepresentation took place. So, I dont think 
that Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined Mrs Gs claim and complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman