DRN-3050991
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance
Society Limited (NFU) dealt with their home insurance claim for fire damage to their house. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs home consists of a house and a smallholding. In February 2020 there was a
fire which caused considerable damage to the house, especially upstairs. Mr and Mrs B
made a claim to NFU. However as it was lambing season they had to remain on the
premises. Whilst the claim was being assessed Mr and Mrs B had to find an emergency
electrician and also source a temporary touring caravan so they could remain on site. NFU
appointed loss adjusters and they arranged for a static caravan to be delivered. However
when it arrived it wasnt suitable. NFU arranged for this to be taken away. When the caravan
was removed, the contractors left the gateposts on the ground without putting them back.
Mrs B fell down one of the holes and hurt her back.
Mr and Mrs B wanted a larger caravan - a twin unit, but NFU said that under the policy they
were only entitled to the cost of a static caravan based on the cost of renting a property for
twelve months. NFU arranged to pay a cash payment to Mr and Mrs B for this.
Mr and Mrs B say they felt forced into proceeding with a cash settlement. NFU drew up a
schedule of works with costings but this wasnt sufficient so NFU agreed to put the works out
to tender. Four tenders were received, NFU proposed to proceed with the lowest tender,
which was considerably less than the other tenders. Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this as
they felt the standard wouldnt be as good as the others - particularly the contractor they
wanted to proceed with. They wouldnt agree to proceed with the lowest tender. So NFU said
it would pay a cash settlement. It agreed to base this on the second lowest tender. However
it said that the contractors would have to come out to the property to confirm their tender, as
theyd previously been unable to do so because of the Covid situation. NFU paid them to
review their quote, as they knew they wouldnt be getting the work.
The contractors confirmed their quote, but indicated they had allowed £10,000 for travel and
accommodation as they werent based locally. NFU proposed to pay a cash settlement
based on the quote, less £10,000. Mr and Mrs B said this wasnt enough for them to have 
the work done by their chosen contractor. NFL) nevertheless paid this cash sum to Mr and
Mrs B.
In August 2020 Mr and Mrs B were told by a neighbour that they needed to have a bat
survey done and obtain the appropriate licence. Mr and Mrs B said the need to do this
should have been highlighted to them by NFU. Because the survey couldnt be done until the
summer season, Mr and Mrs B advised that they cant start the work until August 2021. NFU
agreed to cover the cost of the survey.
In respect of the contents NFU said the limit for this was reduced in 2014 at Mr and Mrs Bs
request, from £90,000 to £30,000 with a free uplift to £50,000. Mr and Mrs B deny changing
the limit but accept they received policy renewal notices up to 2019, when they moved to a
new house. The uplift to £50,000 wasnt transferred to their new address but NFU accepted
that it should have been and considered contents up to a value of £50,000, which Mr and
Mrs B didnt think was sufficient. However they believed they were overinsured in respect of
the building. When the contents claim was considered NFU applied a 25% reduction to each
item as Mr and Mrs B werent able to supply the age of each item.
In respect of their business policy Mr and Mrs B complained that they were sold a Farm
Select policy when they should have been sold a Farm Essentials policy. NFU said that they
were sold the appropriate policy.
NFU accepted that Mr and Mrs B had been caused some delay over the accommodation
situation. It also accepted that the full £50,000 cover should have been transferred across to
their policy. It agreed to pay £250 compensation. In all other respects it said it had acted
appropriately.
On referral to this service our investigator said that NFU should pay a further £200 because
of its contractors leaving the gateposts out of their holes. She further accepted that at the
time of drawing up the schedule of works, NFU couldnt have been aware of the need for a
bat survey. Nevertheless Mr and Mrs B shouldnt be out of pocket because of the need to
delay the work on the property so she proposed that NFU ask the contractors who provided
the quote to set out their up to date costs and for NFU to pay any increase. With regard to
the buildings sum insured, she said that NFU should refund the excess premiums for the two
years on cover at too high a limit. She didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs other complaints.
NFU didnt accept it would be liable for any uplift in costs. It pointed out that its liability was
limited to the lowest tender received, so would have to ask that contractor to assess any
uplift. It doubted that, as it was £25,000 less than the second lowest tender, it would reach
that figure. It accepted, without any admission of liability, the £200 proposed compensation,
and agreed to refund the excess premiums.
I issued a provisional decision. My view of the matter differed in so far as the £10,000 was 
concerned I thought NFU should pay a further £10,000 in respect of the accepted tender.
NFU commented further in respect of two issues in my provisional findings - the decision to 
delay the work until a bat survey had been done, and the further £10,000. Ill deal with its 
comments in my findings below.
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional findings.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
emergency electrician
Mr and Mrs B say that when the claim was made they needed an emergency electrician for
water and fencing of animals and that NFU left them to deal with this themselves. From
review of the file, it appears that, before the claim had been accepted Mr and Mrs B asked
NFU for help with this. Mr and Mrs B initially said they would source the electrician
themselves, but had difficulty and called NFU back. NFU arranged for an electrician to call
that evening but Mrs B cancelled the appointment. NFU has pointed out that Mr and Mrs B
didnt have home emergency cover and that would only have been available in respect of thehouse. I think NFU acted appropriately here.
time it took to accept the claim
The claim was made on 2 February 2020. The loss adjuster attended the next day but
because of the amount of damage, a visit from another loss adjuster was required. This took
place on 12 February and the claim was accepted two days later. I understand there was a
query about the proposed building of an extension. I think NFU dealt with the acceptance of
the claim within a reasonable timeframe.
provision of a touring caravan
Mr and Mrs B needed to stay on the premises because of lambing. They needed a touring
caravan as an emergency but say NFU was unable to supply this leaving it for them to deal
with. I understand that NFU paid for temporary hotel accommodation until the claim was
accepted. Mr and Mrs B obtained a caravan through a friend and NFU agreed to this and it
was supplied in time for the lambing season. I think NFU acted appropriately here.
static caravan
NFU agreed to provide a static caravan as a replacement for the tourer. But when it arrived
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with it as the bed was too small and the seats not appropriate
especially for Mr Bs back. At the time NFU agreed with Mr and Mrs B and arranged for it to
be removed. Mr and Mrs B were given options for the purchase of a replacement but whilst
NFU paid their travel expenses to inspect one, they could not find one that NFU was
prepared to pay for. They pointed out that given the amount of cover they had for alternative
accommodation, they should be able to have a twin unit caravan. They also thought that
NFU should supply and arrange to take away the caravan when the work was finished. They
also said a caravan could be rented rather than purchased.
NFU said that under the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs B were entitled to AA. The policy
says this is the reasonable costs of similar accommodation if the home cannot be lived in.
On the basis of this, as Mr and Mrs B couldnt agree the budget offered for the purchase of a
static caravan, NFU paid them £22,000 which it said was the equivalent of renting a property
for 12 months at £1,800 per month. The works were estimated to take up to 16 weeks.
Renting a caravan wasnt economically viable and Mr and Mrs B would be able to sell it back
to the supplier when finished with.
Mr and Mrs B wanted to stay on the premises, and I bear in mind that the claim was made
under their home policy. Whilst I acknowledge the policy limit for AA that doesnt mean that
anything can be purchased up to the limit. NFU could pay reasonable costs and I think its
payment was reasonable.
I accept that the first static caravan supplied wasnt suitable. Unfortunately there was a delay
in the supply of alternatives. I think NFUs payment of compensation of £250 in respect of
this and the contents policy issue was reasonable.
holes left by contractors
After removal of the first static caravan, the contractors left the gateposts out of the ground.
When they were contacted about this they said they assumed a new one was being
delivered straight away. They also said the posts just slotted back in. Mrs B has told us she
fell down a hole and hurt her back, though she didnt seek any medical advice. Mr B says as
the holes had filled in with soil it wasnt just matter of slotting the posts back in. I think the
contractors should really have returned to do this. Our investigator proposed that NFU pay£200 further compensation in respect of this and NFU agreed to pay this. I think thats
reasonable.
contents sum insured
Mr and Mrs B are adamant they didnt ask for their contents limit to be reduced. They point
out that they didnt receive any amendment setting this out. They agree that they received
renewal schedules but had reviews by NFU over the years and it never advised them about
changing the policy limit. They also had a review when moving home in 2019 and again
werent asked about the contents limit. NFU accepted that the full £50,000 limit should have
been transferred in 2019, and has accepted that that limit applies.
There is no recording available of the call in 2014. But there is a clear attendance note which
said:
Mrs [B] she wishes to make some changes wef renewal - amend the rebuilding cost on 
building to £400,000, contents £30,000 with free uplift to £50,000 and PB down to £2,000
I think I have to accept that as clear evidence that the limit was changed. The new policy
limit was to take effect at the next renewal, so an amendment wouldnt have been sent out
separately. I bear in mind that this policy was sold non-advised which means that NFU
didnt recommend what policy to buy or what limits to set. If Mr and Mrs B didnt check their
policy documents in the years from 2014 to 2019, they might have been expected to do so
when moving home. I dont think NFU was responsible for the limit being set at £50,000 after
2014. I accept that Mr and Mrs B would have been caused some anxiety when the full
£50,000 limit wasnt transferred to the new home, but I think NFU acted appropriately.
buildings cover too high
Conversely Mr and Mrs B say the buildings cover was too high. I think the same arguments
apply as for the contents  it was up to them to set the value they wanted the building to be
insured for. Nevertheless NFU has accepted that from 2019 the building was overinsured
and has agreed to refund the appropriate premium for the two terms. I think thats
reasonable.
contents claim value reduction
NFU has applied a reduction of 25% for the contents settlement across the board as Mr and
Mrs B were unable to prove the ages of the items. Its also unable to replace some of the
items whilst the home remains unrepaired. Mr and Mrs B say they werent able to provide
receipts as they were destroyed in the fire. I have assumed NFU has used the following term
in the policy:
WE will also take off an amount for wear, tear or loss of value if, when the DAMAGE
happens, YOUR insured replacement cost is less than the cost of replacing all CONTENTS
as new.
I think thats fair in the circumstances. But Mr and Mrs B should be allowed to present any
further evidence once the items are able to be replaced. I propose to require NFU to
reconsider this.
type of farm policy
For their business, Mr and Mrs B purchased a Farm Select rather than a Farm Essentials
policy. The Farm Essentials policy is for smaller farms which theirs is. However the FarmSelect policy is more flexible and enables the policyholder to select various options, which
Mr and Mrs B did, having been made aware of both policies. I think that was reasonable.
As both parties have accepted these findings, I make no further comment.
cash settlement
My provisional findings were as follows:
NFU has paid Mr and Mrs B a cash settlement, which they say falls short of the amount 
they need to complete the repairs. They feel they were pressurised into accepting a cash
settlement.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B were in a difficult situation, having to live in a tourer caravan for
the first seven weeks of the claim. Unfortunately that was the result of the claim and the
need for them to be present for lambing rather than any fault on the part of NFU.
NFU did decide it would proceed by way of a cash settlement, which it was entitled to do
under the terms of the policy. It was also entitled to put the repairs out to tender, to assess a
fair price. When the tenders came back, one tender was considerably lower than the rest
and NFU said it was prepared to use that contractor to carry out the repairs. Mr and Mrs B
rejected that as they felt the standard wouldnt be as good as the others.
NFU took into account that Mr and Mrs B didnt want to proceed with its contractors, and that
they had applied for planning permission to build an extension, i.e. private work outside the
terms of the policy. It could also pay its proposed settlement whether or not Mr and Mrs B
accepted it, as otherwise it could be liable for interest.
Here, whilst I recognise that the normal process would be to opt for lowest tender, NFU
nevertheless agreed that the second lowest tender would be used as the basis for
settlement. This was for £124,555. When those contractors visited the property they said
they had allowed £10,000 for travel and accommodation. So NFU deducted that figure from
its final settlement. I havent seen any document setting this out. However I have seen the
tender documents and the accompanying scope of work. And nowhere in those documents
do the contractors say that a £10,000 allowance for travel/accommodation is included. Each
item is clearly costed and adds up to the final figure put forward. And whilst NFU paid the
contractors to visit the property they nevertheless were aware they were not going to get the
work. My view is that its more likely that the contractors intended to absorb the cost of travel
and accommodation. So I think that NFU should pay Mr and Mrs B an additional £10,000
with simple interest at 8% per year from the date it paid the original settlement until
reimbursement.
In respect of VAT, I think NFUs position is reasonable here  it doesnt have to pay it until
the repairs are invoiced by a VAT registered contractor. That applies to the £10,000 as well.
NFU doesnt understand why I have said that its liability isnt restricted to the lowest tender, 
since that is the accepted position. With regard to the extra £10,000, it has shown us an 
email from the contractors (which it hadnt shown us before) explaining that they had allowed 
£10,000 for accommodation and travel. They commented that Mr and Mrs B wanted the 
settlement to cover the extra work they were having done outside of the claim.
Whilst it may be normal practice to accept the lowest tender, that doesnt mean its a hard 
and fast rule. It might be fair for any number of reasons not to accept the lowest tender. In 
this case, bearing in mind that the lowest tender was some £25,000 less than the second 
lowest tender that was an indication that it probably wasnt a fair tender. And NFU based its settlement on the second lowest tender, probably partly for that reason. It cant now say its 
liability was only for the lowest tender.
As regards the £10,000 cost for travel and accommodation, I would still observe that this 
figure doesnt appear anywhere in the tender documents submitted,. As the contractors 
knew they wouldnt be getting the work when they mentioned that figure, I think they most 
likely intended to absorb this cost themselves. I think the tender submitted was the right 
figure, and that NFU should pay a further £10,000 with interest.
Ill ignore the suggestion that Mr and Mrs B wanted the cash settlement to cover uninsured 
work  this point hasnt been put to them.
 
bat survey
My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr and Mrs B have said they are now required to carry put a bat survey which wasnt
advised to them at the time by NFU. As a result the works had to be postponed to this
summer when the survey and if necessary the removal could take place. NFU has said that
at the time of making the offer of settlement it couldnt have anticipated the need for such a
survey. Its also said Mr and Mrs B would have been alerted to this when they applied for
planning permission for the extension. I think NFUs explanation is plausible. And it has paid
Mr and Mrs B a settlement to get the survey done. However I dont think Mr and Mrs B are at
fault either and so the investigators proposal that the tender figure be revised to account for
the years delay is reasonable. As Ive pointed out, NFU agreed to go with the second lowest
tender figure, so I dont think it can be said that the lowest tender is its limit of liability. I think
it should arrange for the contractors who provided that second lowest figure to advise what
their revised figure would be, and NFU should pay the additional cost.
NFU agrees that its surveyor should have picked up on the bat survey point, but has pointed 
out that Mr and Mrs B had applied for planning permission to have an extension built so 
would have had to do the bat survey anyway. It says the decision to delay the works was 
entirely Mr and Mrs Bs.
NFU says that it would be impractical to ask its contractors to reassess the cost. It 
understands the work has been done and perhaps a more appropriate line of enquiry would 
be to request copies of all costs incurred in relation to the reinstatement works only. Rather 
than having the contractors estimate what the increase in costs over this year would have 
been as this wouldnt be accurate now given the works have already been completed and 
the known issues/ increases in materials due to Brexit and the pandemic. 
My understanding is that the bat survey wouldnt be done until the decision was taken to 
start the work, rather than at the time of applying for the planning permission. I think the 
works had to be delayed due to the said bat survey, and that would have happened whether 
or not Mr and Mrs B were having works done outside of the insurance claim, so it is fair that 
the work be costed at todays rates. 
Weve asked Mr and Mrs B about the work- I understand it is still going on. I take NFUs 
point about calculating the increase in costs. My provisional decision was based on the fac 
that the work hadnt started. So if Mr and Mrs B want to claim that increase they should 
produce invoices for all the reinstatement work. NFU should pay any cost incurred for those 
works in excess of the tender figure. 
Save as specified above, my provisional findings are now final and form part of this final 
decision.Putting things right
 NFU should:
pay a further £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs B.
refund the excess premiums for the buildings from the 2019 renewal.
reconsider the contents settlement, taking into account any further evidence that Mr and
Mrs B wish to provide.
pay a further £10,000 cash settlement and add 8% per year simple interest* from the
date of the original settlement until it pays Mr and Mrs B.
on receipt of invoices relating to the reinstatement work from Mr and Mrs B, pay any cost 
to them in excess of the tender price (including the £10,000)
 
*The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited is required by HM Revenue
and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should Mr and Mrs B request it, it should
provide them with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if
appropriate, they can reclaim it. 
My final decision
I propose to uphold the complaint and to require The National Farmers' Union Mutual
Insurance Society Limited to provide the remedy set out above at Putting things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman