DRN-3618816
The complaint
Mr E complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) didnt provide him with a closure 
statement for his account. He says he doesnt know what happened to some of the shares 
he held, and that HSDL didnt answer his various calls and emails. He also says he was 
unhappy about the fee it introduced, which prompted him to close his account.
What happened
Mr E had an execution only share dealing account with HSDL. He says that it introduced a 
new fee which he didnt agree with, so he felt forced to close his account.
When the account was closed, he says he only received £9 and no shares. He didnt receive 
a closing statement and he doesnt know what happened to his shares. He says he accepts 
some of the tech stocks he held lost value, but he knows companies were taken over and he 
cant find out what happened to his shares.
HSDL said there were no shares held in Mr Es account and that it transferred the cash held 
to him. It said it sent him a closing statement on 30 September 2021 following his request.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude any shares had gone missing, or that HSDL had done something wrong. She was 
also satisfied that HSDL could change its agreement and alter its charges.
Mr E didnt agree. He said, in summary, that the information HSDL had provided does not 
explain what happened to his holdings and its failed to provide adequate accounting. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, I want to reassure Mr E that, whilst Ive summarised his response to our 
investigators conclusion, I have listened to a recording of the call he had with her; so Im 
aware of everything he said.
Mr E said he felt forced to close his account because HSDL introduced a new fee. The terms 
and conditions of the account say (16.11):
We may change the terms of this agreement at any time where:
.(c) the change is an increase to our costs and charges to respond proportionately 
to cost increases associated with providing the service and/or accounts.
Im satisfied HSDL acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions when it gave Mr E 
notice of its new fee.
I agree with the investigator that, when Mr E gave instructions to close his account, it didnt 
contain any shareholdings and that the small cash balance was paid to him.
Mr E says his shares lost value and he decided to keep hold of them in the hope that theyd 
increase in value, or hed receive some money or new shares if the companies were taken 
over. And it would seem that during this period Mr E stopped accessing his account  he told 
us he left it in HSDLs hands. HSDL was responsible for telling Mr E about any corporate 
actions that affected his shares. And Im satisfied that it did this  Mr Es account was an 
online account and HSDL notified him about relevant corporate actions through the online 
platform. 
This was an execution only account, so it was Mr Es responsibility to keep up to date with 
any changes and, if required, to give any instructions to HSDL in response to corporate 
actions. Mr E cant access his account now because its closed, which isnt unreasonable. 
But Im satisfied HSDL sent Mr E enough information to show that he didnt hold any shares 
when the account was closed. I appreciate the information HSDL provided isnt in the format 
Mr E would like. But I cant order HDSL to format the information differently because Im 
satisfied that it, together with the corporate action information, is sufficient for Mr E to 
understand whats happened.
Mr E said he spent a long time trying to get through to HSDL on the phone and it ignored his 
requests. This was obviously frustrating. But as I dont find HSDL caused Mr E a financial 
loss and, as Im satisfied the information about Mr Es account was available online while the 
account was open, and that HSDL has now provided him with statements of his account by 
post, I cant order it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman