DRN-3991012
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) has failed to refund over £18,000 he says he 
lost as part of an investment scam in May 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payments he made to Wisenex using 
his Revolut debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer ATP Markets from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by Revolut, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr M from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character
I appreciate that overall, Mr M has lost over £18,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over nine separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not 
have appeared particularly unusual. 
I say this because Mr M had only recently opened his account with Revolut, and so had 
very little by way of account history for it to have known whether his spending was out of 
character. The main activity that can therefore be seen from Mr Ms account statements 
is largely him adding funds from external accounts and then making card payments to 
Wisenex  sometimes more than once per day  which would have then become 
established as part of his normal account activity. 
So, given that Mr M had no spending history with Revolut, Im not persuaded there was 
anything that ought reasonably to have triggered its fraud monitoring systems as being 
unusual, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr M reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr M used his 
debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, hed have little prospect of making a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the merchant he paid had 
provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do 
not think Revolut were under any obligation to pursue a chargeback for all the payments 
Mr M made either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman