DRN-3850436
The complaint
Mr T trading as T complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed his account. He 
would like a reason and compensation for the commission he has lost.
Mr T is represented by P.
What happened
Mr T had a business account with Santander. The account was used to run a property 
management business and was credited with commissions for organising rental agreements 
on behalf of landlords 
On 24 March 2021 Mr Ts account was blocked for review. He was then given 60 days 
notice to close the account. He was told that no further credits would be allowed into the 
account. Mr T was told he would have to go into branch with proof of ID to release the funds.
Mr T was also asked to show that he was entitled to the funds in the account.
Mr T provided information to the bank in the form of tenancy agreements on 6 May 2021.
On 7 May 2021 Mr T was allowed access to the funds in his account.
Mr T collected the funds in his account on 18 May 2021.
Mr T has said that the block on the account was very difficult as the money in the account 
didnt belong to him, it was mostly money that he needed to forward to the landlords he 
worked with.
Mr T said he was unhappy that Santander had charged him banking fees whilst his account 
was blocked, and he couldnt use it.
P on behalf of Mr T complained to Santander. They said they were entitled to review and 
later close the account because Mr T was operating the account in breach of the terms and 
conditions. They said Mr Ts account was being operated by his father who was running the 
property management business. Santander agreed to refund £15 for the period 23 April to 
22 May 2021 which is one months worth of fees on closure of the account.
P complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint he said 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed and closed the account. He thought 
Santander were entitled to ask for Proof of entitlement of funds. He thought Santander 
should refund a further £15 in fees from 24 March 2021 to 22 April 2021 as the account was 
blocked during this period.
P disagreed with the view they said it was unreasonable that Santander took so long to 
release the funds. They also said Mr T lost some business as a result of the actions of the 
bank.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ts account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Santander were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ts account. 
Given that Mr T originally contacted Santander because he didnt recognise the account and 
couldnt remember opening it and then mentioned that his father ran the account even 
though it was in his name, I can understand Santander needed to ascertain the proof of 
entitlement to the funds in the account. Whilst they waited for this information to be provided, 
I would have expected Santander to block the account. I can see that in blocking the account 
the bank were following an internal process which they carried out in order to comply with 
their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say Santander 
was unfair. 
Santander gave Mr T 60 days notice to close the account. A bank is entitled to close an 
account with a customer just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But before a 
bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. In this case Santander told Mr T that they would close the account 
as there had been a breach of the terms and conditions.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Mr Ts account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account with less notice. In this case Santander gave Mr T 
60 days notice but restricted the use of the account. Having looked at these terms and all 
the evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to 
close the accounts as its already done. 
P representing Mr T has said that the bank was unreasonable as it took so long to release 
the funds. Ive looked at the evidence before me and I disagree. Mr T was asked to provide 
proof of entitlement to the funds in the account and I can see that he provided this to the 
bank by letter on 6 May 2021. Santanders notes show that the funds were available for Mr T 
to withdraw from 7 May 2021. He needed to go into branch with proof of ID in order to gain 
access to those funds. The funds were withdrawn from the account on 18 May 2021. On the 
evidence Im satisfied Santander didnt cause any delay here.
P have also said that Mr T lost business as a result of the actions of the bank. Ive already 
said Santander have done nothing wrong here, so I wont be asking them to compensate 
Mr T for the loss of business.
Mr T mentioned he had been charged a monthly fee even whilst the account was blocked. A 
£15 fee for the period 23 April 2021 to 22 May 2021 was applied and recredited to the 
account. 
A £15 fee for the period 23 March 2021 to 22 April 2021 was applied to the account. During 
this period Mr T didnt have access to the account. The investigator recommended that Mr T 
should be refunded this amount and I agree.In summary looking at the evidence I am satisfied that Santander acted fairly when they 
block and closed Mr Ts account. But Santander should refund T £15 account fees as 
detailed above.
Putting things right
For the reasons I have mentioned Santander should refund T £15 for the account fees it paid 
for the period 23 March 2021 to 22 April 2021 whilst the account was blocked.
My final decision
I partially uphold the complaint. I direct Santander UK Plc to pay T £15 as a refund of 
account fees as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman