DRN-3893055
Complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs F are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around November 2018, Mr and Mrs F were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs F decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf under section 75 and section 140 
of the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs F to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding. 
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs F or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for 
delays in complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs F and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
The CMC re-iterated that Mr and Mrs F were verbally told the FIT payments and 
savings on energy bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments and that the 
system would be self-funding. The CMC felt no consideration had been given to the 
verbal representations made by P. 
The CMC challenged whether Ps sales processes were actually followed during the 
sales meeting  the CMC says P did not go through the sales document in detail and 
the consumers did not understand the technical information.
The CMC added Mr and Mrs F were not left to read the document which was, in any 
event, lengthy and not easily understandable. 
The CMC also added that appropriate affordability checks had not been carried out 
and Shawbrooks records show Mr and Mrs Fs income was recorded as vastly more 
than their actual income. They added Mr and Mrs F were experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. As 
Mr and Mrs F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs F could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs F and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook. Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit 
agreement. In this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs F say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The cost of the system 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F were told that the cost of the system was £11,597.25. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £11,597.25. The total amount of credit is £11,497.25 (after 
deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£16,757.20.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £138.89. But I note Mr 
and Mrs F deferred their payments for a few months which is reflected in their credit 
agreement and their monthly payment is also marginally different at £138.81  but I dont 
think these differences make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was 
£11,597.25, it would cost Mr and Mrs F more than this as they had decided to pay for it with 
an interest bearing loan. 
Self-funding 
Mr and Mrs F have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs F could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs F could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £154.43, which results in an average monthly income of £12.86. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs F could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £278.28 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs F the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £549.26. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £138.89 (which is £1,666.68). As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments 
and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months since this is 
the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs F entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £138.89. For each year of the 10-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £138.89, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs F could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. The table does clearly set out that, the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the 
consumers werent told that the FIT payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. 
Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs F that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs F were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 19 the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs F could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs F that the system would pay for 
itself by year 19, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs F. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2383.08 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs F FIT statements and meter reading and can see that their 
system, on average, has generated 2,502.40 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P 
at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs F 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs F entered into the 
contract.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Affordability 
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs Fs income in Shawbrooks records indicate P overstated 
their income and the loan wasnt affordable. They have also highlighted that Mr and Mrs F 
are experiencing financial difficulty. Shawbrook says the joint income figure was given to 
them by Mr and Mrs F at the time of sale and it carried out various credit checks before 
accepting their loan application. 
Mr and Mrs F havent been able to provide any evidence from the time of sale of what their 
total household income was. I have seen various documents over several other years 
suggesting Mrs Fs income was significantly less than the total joint income recorded by 
Shawbrook. However, this was a joint sale, and usually in a joint application, the total income 
of both applicants is recorded - so I have to bear that in mind. 
I also note that Mr and Mrs F signed the joint credit agreement noting the monthly repayment 
several days after the sale, so they had time to consider their financial situation along with 
the costs associated with the loan. Additionally, the loan account statements theyve 
submitted also show they were able to meet the loan repayments due. So, whilst I 
understand their concerns over the income figure recorded, overall, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence that the loan wasnt actually affordable at the time of sale. 
However, if Mr and Mrs F are experiencing financial difficulty, they can contact Shawbrook 
for help. We would expect Shawbrook to treat them sympathetically in relation to any 
amounts still outstanding. 
Optional extras 
Mr and Mrs F have also said they were unhappy that one optional extra was removed after 
installation as it didnt work and that they had to pay a subscription for a different optional 
extra after the free period expired. However, I can see they were given £650 refund for the 
optional extra that was removed, and they signed a variation order to confirm they were 
happy with the resolution at the time. Im aware they were given an additional amount under the Standard Estimation Method (SEM) guarantee. Additionally, while it may have been 
disappointing for them to realise the other optional extra was only free for a short period, 
they were given the option to either cancel or continue with it by paying the subscription, and 
it was up to them to decide what suited their needs. 
Mr and Mrs F havent asserted that they bought the system because of the optional extras 
and with or without them, the system isnt self-funding. Without the optional extras, the first- 
year benefit would have been around £432 which is still significantly less than their annual 
payments. So my view of their main complaint isnt affected by these issues. So overall I 
dont think Shawbrook needs to do anything about these issues now. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs F 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly when 
declining the claim.
If Mr and Mrs F wish to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling (if they havent done so already), they should contact Shawbrook directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman