DRN-2842799
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) has declined to refund him for 
flights he purchased.
What happened
Mr T purchased flights from a supplier I shall call H, to travel to Sweden in January 2020. 
This was for two return flights and cost £194.46. Mr T paid using his Capital One credit card.
The flights were originally due to depart on 16 June 2020 and return on 23 June 2020. 
However, in May 2020 H advised Mr T that due to the Covid-19 pandemic the flights had 
been cancelled. H said Mr T could apply for a refund or rebook the flights for free. He chose 
to rebook the flights. These were rescheduled to depart the UK on 4 August 2020 and then 
return from Sweden on 11 August 2020.
In July 2020, Mr T advised hed become aware that at the time his trip was due to take 
place, travel to Sweden was only allowed if it was for essential travel. He therefore says he 
tried to contact H to cancel the flights and receive a full refund, as his trip would not be 
classed as essential. Mr T says he couldnt reach H despite calling, emailing, and using its 
online chat facility.
 
Therefore, on 3 August 2020, Mr T sent Capital One a completed disputed transaction form 
via email. Capital One requested some further evidence from Mr T regarding the dispute and 
he provided this the same day. He also explained that along with his trip not being essential 
travel, he would also have to later quarantine which wouldnt be possible. 
On 10 August 2020, Capital one responded to Mr Ts dispute and declined to assist him with 
a refund. In summary it said it couldnt pursue a refund via a chargeback as the flights Mr T 
purchased still went/were still due to go ahead. And under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (s.75), Mr T didnt have a valid claim as no evidence of a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation had been provided. 
Unhappy with this Mr T raised a complaint. On 24 August 2020, Capital One responded and 
reaffirmed that it hadnt made an error in declining the dispute. Mr T referred his complaint to 
our service and explained that to resolve the matter he wanted a full refund for the cost of 
the two return flights.
 
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded that Capital One was correct in 
advising that it couldnt assist Mr T with a refund via chargeback. In addition, the investigator 
also advised that s.75 wouldnt apply as the value of each return ticket was under the £100 
limit required for s.75 to be considered.
Mr T disagreed and said the investigator was discriminating against him, by expecting him to 
travel with his son to a country not permitting non-essential travel. He also said that our 
service hasnt taken the pandemic and its impact into account when considering his 
complaint. 
Given this, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, there are two ways that a bank can assist customers with 
disputes such as Mr Ts. This is via the chargeback scheme, or through a s.75 claim. Ive 
therefore looked at both, to see if Capital One should have done more to assist Mr T.
 
Chargeback
 
A consumer is not entitled to chargeback by right. But where there are grounds to raise one 
and it has a reasonable prospect of success, it is good practice for one to be raised by the 
card issuer. Once a refund is requested by a consumer the card issuer will usually look at 
the card scheme rules to see if the nature of the dispute is covered under the list of possible 
chargeback reasons. If so, relevant evidence might be requested to back up the claim and 
the chargeback is raised. In Mr Ts case, Capital One didnt believe that a chargeback had 
any chance of being successful, so didnt raise one.
For Mr Ts credit card account, the relevant card scheme is MasterCard. 
Ive looked at the MasterCard chargeback rules applicable at the time, which gives the full 
list of dispute reason codes that can be used to raise a chargeback. Having considered 
these reason codes, I believe the most appropriate would be where good or services havent 
been provided. For this chargeback reason the rules state that the cardholders account has 
been debited for goods or services that were to be shipped, delivered or otherwise provided 
and were not received by the expected delivery date. 
So, for the purpose of the chargeback claim, although the original flights were cancelled, 
Mr T agreed to new flights and these were available. So, I dont think Mr T would have met 
the conditions for raising a chargeback under the goods or services not provided reason.
MasterCard also issued guidance in May 2020, that was specific to situations arising from 
the pandemic. This guidance states that a chargeback right does not exist when the 
cardholder chose not to use a service made available by the merchant, following 
precautionary advice or to avoid a mandated quarantine upon arrival.
 
I appreciate Mr Ts reasons for choosing not to board the flights, but H were still willing to 
provide them and Im satisfied both flights did go ahead. I say this because flight tracker 
information shows both flights took off and landed the same day as scheduled. So, if 
Capital One were to have raised the chargeback, I dont think it likely it would have had any 
reasonable prospect of success.
The Mastercard May 2020 Guidance does say that a chargeback right may exist where a 
refund is due per the terms and conditions properly disclosed to the cardholder at the time 
of the purchase and the refund has not been processed. So, Ive considered whether this is 
applicable to Mr Ts complaint. 
 I can see that Mr T has advised he tried to contact H to cancel the flights, prior to raising the 
dispute with Capital One. I havent been provided with any evidence that Mr T did cancel the 
flights with H before the departure dates. But even if he had, he wouldnt have been due a 
refund, as Hs terms and conditions do not permit refunds when cancelled by a customer.
 
There are terms relating to a claim for a refund of the tax element of the fare cost, but that 
only arises in relation to certain higher priced tickets from this supplier and where taxes are 
itemised on the invoice. From the invoice evidence available, it isnt clear that tax was paid 
on these tickets and without such evidence I couldnt properly go on to consider whether 
there might have been grounds for a chargeback claim in respect of any tax.  
Taking everything into consideration, Capital One hasnt acted unreasonably in not 
attempting a chargeback. If it had tried, I find that the chargeback wouldnt have had any 
reasonable grounds for success as it would likely have been defended by H.
s.75
Ive gone on to consider the s.75 position for Mr T. S.75 is part of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA). It allows, in limited circumstances, someone buying goods and/or services on 
credit to claim for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation against their credit provider 
when there is a like claim against the supplier.
As the investigator explained, there are certain criteria that needs to be met for s.75 to apply. 
One of these is that the claim must relate to a single item that costs more than £100 and no 
more than £30,000. 
The total cost for everything was £194.46. Looking at the costs broken down in the itinerary 
provided by Mr T, the costs appear to be the same for the tickets, regardless of whether the 
fare was an adult or childs one. Mr T was also able to select what flights he wanted and able 
to add additions as required, to tailor his needs for the trip. Therefore, even if I was to 
conclude that the single items purchased were each return ticket, the cost of each one would 
still be below the required £100 limit. 
In this case Im satisfied the tickets Mr T purchased didnt meet the monetary limits set out 
for s.75 to apply. So, Mr T did not have a valid claim under s.75 and I dont think Capital One 
treated Mr T unfairly by declining to meet his claim. 
 
I can see that following the investigator issuing her findings into the complaint, Mr T has 
provided evidence that the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) were investigating 
whether some airlines had broken consumer law by failing to offer refunds for flights 
customers could not legally take during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
On 7 October 2021 the CMA published that it had concluded that a lack of clarity in the law 
makes it insufficiently certain that it would be able to secure refunds for customers of (those 
airlines)who were prevented from flying by coronavirus (Covid-19) travel restrictions.
So, I dont think this assists Mr Ts position in this complaint.
I do sympathise with Mr T. He was merely following guidance on travel restrictions and now 
he finds himself out of pocket. But as I set out above, here I am looking at the obligations of 
the bank and as explained, I dont think it needed to do more for Mr T. Therefore, I dont 
think it was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it declined his claim. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman