DRN-1601275
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs W. The car 
here was around seven years old and had completed about 74,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
I can see that Mrs W had some trouble with the car very early on. The flywheel was replaced 
and there was some work to the window and door mirror. I understand Mrs W has suggested 
that the door and mirror werent properly rectified, but Ive not seen any further evidence to -
persuade me that was the case.
The relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair problems that were 
present when the car was supplied and given the fact Mrs W hadnt been in possession of 
the car for long I think they were right to make repairs to the car at no cost to Mrs W.
Black Horse were first told about the problem with the diesel particulate filter (DPF) in July 
2019, thirteen months and 9,000 miles after the car was supplied to Mrs W. Im not 
persuaded the DPF was likely to have been failing at the point the car was supplied 
because:
the DPF is a filter and I think over time its likely filters will get blocked and are 
therefore a wear and tear item;
the relevant legislation says that if a fault occurs after more than six months have 
elapsed the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was present, or 
developing, at the point of supply. Mrs W says the DPF didnt last as long as it should 
have but Im not persuaded she has provided sufficient evidence to suggest that is 
the case.;
Mrs W had travelled 9,000 miles in the car when the DPF required replacing. I think 
its likely that there would have been significant, earlier signs of a problem if the DPF 
was failing when the car was supplied.
So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence that this car was not of satisfactory quality and I 
therefore dont think Black Horse need to take any further action.
I understand that since the DPF was repaired Mrs W has had further problems but, as I dont 
find that Black Horse were responsible for the initial DPF failure it would not be fair for me to 
hold them responsible for the quality of any repairs that have been completed to it.
I note that Mrs W has also made reference to being upset about the car being supplied with 
an MOT. I think the suggestion is that this should not have been the case and Mrs W is 
therefore suggesting the finance agreement was mis-sold to her. Our investigator asked for 
more information about this in August 2020 but as Mrs W hasnt provided any further 
information it is difficult for me to comment on her concerns. On the basis of the information I 
have I dont think it would be likely that the issues Mrs W identified with the car; the shaking 
window and door mirror and the flywheel, would be likely to have been identified during an 
MOT and I dont think enough evidence has been provided to suggest the car was mis-sold 
to her.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman