DRN-2869670
The complaint
Mr M holds an Invest Direct Account (IDA) with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Hes unhappy that 
HSBC forcibly sold some of his shares when purchases made through the IDA led to his 
current account, from which the purchases shouldve been funded, going overdrawn. 
 
What happened
Mr M opened his IDA in February 2019. He had a trading limit of £20,000 and could make 
share purchases to that value, which would then be paid for automatically from his HSBC 
current account after a two-day settlement period. 
Mr M made several share purchases in May 2020, but when the settlement date was 
reached there was insufficient money in his current account to meet the cost. This resulted in 
an unauthorised overdraft of approximately £53,000. HSBC made Mr M aware of this, and 
he brought the account back into credit by selling some shares.
In June 2020, as a result of further share purchases Mr Ms current account went overdrawn 
again, by around £38,000. Hes said that on this occasion HSBC didnt make him aware of 
the unauthorised overdraft and that if he had been made aware, he wouldve again sold 
shares to repay it. 
HSBC says it wrote to Mr M highlighting the overdraft and the consequences of not bringing 
his current account back into credit. He says he didnt receive these letters and thinks HSBC 
shouldve attempted other methods of communication.
Mr M says that because he wasnt made aware of the overdraft situation, he lost the 
opportunity to put matters right himself. HSBC then carried out a forced sale of shares from 
his ISA, which formed part of his IDA. But the funds generated by this sale werent enough to 
bring the current account back into credit  it only reduced the overdraft to around £15,000. 
Mr M feels the shares were sold too cheaply and a better price couldve been achieved if 
hed been able to decide when to sell.
Mr Ms overdraft was still at around the £15,000 level when he complained about the matter 
to this service in August 2020. Although he had the means to repay the overdraft at that 
time, he says he didnt want to do so until wed investigated the matter. Because of the 
outstanding overdraft, restrictions that had been placed on Mr Ms accounts remained in 
place. Mr M didnt think it was fair of HSBC to restrict access to his ISA, as he considered 
this to be separate to his IDA.
Shortly after Mr M referred his complaint to us, HSBC debited just over £15,000 from his ISA
to pay off the remaining overdraft. As he had asked it to not take any action until wed 
reviewed the matter, he feels it was unfair of HSBC to do this, as the money lost its ISA 
wrapping.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It noted that hed always had sufficient funds held in 
the ISA part of the IDA to rectify the overdraft position. It also highlighted that although 
trading restrictions were placed on his accounts these applied to his on-line access and he 
couldve sold shares via the telephone service at any time. 
HSBC felt Mr M had been given sufficient warning about what actions would be taken if he 
failed to address the overdraft himself, including it sending letters and leaving voicemail 
messages for him.   
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator also concluded that it 
shouldnt be upheld. He said, in brief:
The terms of the IDA made clear how the trading process operated, and that 
settlement would be made from the linked current account. 
This had been reiterated to Mr M by HSBC on several occasions, particularly when 
his current account had previously gone overdrawn. 
Between 23 June 2020 and 14 July 2020, the date on which HSBC made the forced 
sale of shares, HSBC sent text alerts, letters, and left a voicemail asking for 
Mr M to call back. While no email communication was attempted, there was no 
obligation on HSBC to do so. 
Given the lack of response from Mr M and the size of the overdraft it was reasonable 
to make a sale of Mr Ms shares, which was in accordance with the terms of the IDA. 
In respect of using cash from the ISA part of the IDA, this was also reasonable given 
the failure of Mr M to agree a payment plan. And it appeared that HSBC did 
reasonably consider a plan, but couldnt accept Mr Ms proposal of an interest-free 
arrangement, particularly as he held sufficient monies in the ISA.  
It was also reasonable for HSBC to restrict access to the account and not wait for the 
outcome of any investigation this service might carry out, given the size of the debt. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view. He said, in brief:
There were a number of flaws and assumptions in the investigators view and he had 
relied on the IDAs terms and conditions.
Whether (or not) Mr M had breached any terms, he felt he could rely upon the 
principles of fairness set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook. These said, among other things, that a business must act 
fairly and have regard for the interests of its customers.   
The investigator has said that HSBC had the right to mitigate its position in 
exceptional circumstances, but he hadnt clarified what was exceptional about the 
circumstances in this case. 
There was always sufficient money in his ISA to cover the overdraft borrowing. 
Therefore, the risk of loss to HSBC was very limited, so why were the circumstances 
exceptional?
Why had HSBC previously allowed the account to go overdrawn as a result of 
numerous share purchases? The terms and conditions of the IDA were only applied 
when they suited HSBC.
The shares had not been bought with HSBCs money, as Mr M had sufficient funds 
on deposit in his ISA. 
This situation also occurred at a very difficult time, when the country was in 
lockdown. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. I dont think the complaint should be upheld. 
I appreciate Mr M feels that HSBC acted unfairly by selling his shares and moving cash from 
his ISA. And that in doing so, it was acting unnecessarily aggressively and applying its terms 
in too stringent a manner. 
But I dont see that HSBC had much option other than to take action itself to bring the 
current account back into a credit position. Mr M was alerted to the issue on several 
occasions with HSBC using several different methods of communication. I note that over the 
period question Mr M changed addresses on two occasions. But theres nothing to suggest 
that this led to letters being sent to the wrong address. 
And in any event, text messages and phone calls were also made to Mr M. HSBC may not 
have emailed Mr M, but I think its other attempts at contact were reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ultimately it was Mr Ms responsibility to keep his current account within its 
authorised limits and to understand how the trading process worked and manage the 
payments for share purchases. 
I note Mr M had sufficient funds available in his ISA within the IDA to bring his account back 
into the correct position at any time. His argument seems to be that because of this positive 
balance in the associated account it was then reasonable for him to effectively operate the 
IDA with a greater degree of flexibility than the terms provided for.
I dont agree that it was reasonable to do this and while I note what Mr M has said about 
HSBC not always stringently applying the terms  by letting him purchase shares and go 
overdrawn previously  I think this would simply have been a case of it initially allowing a 
reasonable level of flexibility for him, which it was then left with little choice but to withdraw 
when the unauthorised overdrawn position continued. 
While Mr M may have had other money with HSBC in the ISA that couldve covered the 
overdraft debt, I dont think its reasonable for him to have expected HSBC to allow him to 
trade as he wanted, when he wanted. There are costs incurred by a business when a 
situation such as Mr Ms arises, even if money is held elsewhere, with another part of that 
business  time must be spent managing the issue. 
So, in summary, I dont find that HSBC treated Mr M unfairly or exhibited insufficient regard 
for his interests. Im of the view that it made reasonable attempts to resolve the matter with 
him first, prior to having to force the sale of shares and move cash from his ISA  actions 
that Im satisfied the terms of the IDA allowed it to do. And further, that it continued to act 
fairly and reasonably in trying to resolve the situation, for instance by engaging with Mr M 
around the possible of a payment plan, despite the funds being available in the ISA. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
James HarrisOmbudsman