DRN-4101810
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited increased their pet 
insurance premiums unfairly. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr and Mrs G took out a lifetime RSA pet insurance policy for their dog. In 2019 a 
second dog was added to the policy.  Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the premium offered 
for their 2021 renewal  around £1,300. In August 2021 RSA issued a final response to their 
complaint. It explained, with reference to various risk factors including a claim, why the 
premium had increased. It did accept the increase may have come as a surprise to 
Mr and Mrs G. To apologise for this it paid them £200 compensation. 
In 2022 the premium increased, at renewal, to about £1,750. Mr and Mrs G complained. In 
September 2022 RSA issued a final response. It said the renewal premium had been 
calculated correctly  considering various risk factors such as pet age, breed and claims 
experience. 
RSA explained claims for one of the dogs increased the risk of it requiring further treatment - 
and this was reflected in the renewal premium. It said continuation of cover meant premiums 
had to consider the risk of pre-existing conditions  unlike new policies that wouldnt cover 
these.   
In December 2022 Mr and Mrs G came to this service. They werent satisfied with RSAs 
response. They feel the premium increases arent within the spirit of the original agreement 
they took out. They want to be compensated for being overcharged  with a reasonable 
yearly increase agreed.   
Our investigator said this service was unable to consider the merits of the complaint RSA 
responded to in August 2021. This was because Mr and Mrs G had referred it to this service 
beyond the six-month deadline set out in our rules. She did consider the September 2022 
final response. She said RSA had explained how the policy would work and had informed 
them future premium increases were likely. So she didnt ask RSA to do anything differently. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept we cant look at the merits of their earlier complaint. To be clear 
that complaint seems to have been their concern that they werent informed, when taking out 
the cover initially, how its premiums or the cover provided, might change over time. 
According to Mr and Mrs G RSA didnt explain the importance of the six-month deadline. 
Thats not a consideration for me. I can see the final response gave the correct referral rights 
with details of the deadline. So they were informed of the timescales involved. The letter also 
says this service wont have RSAs permission to consider the complaint if referred out of 
time. As it was referred later than six months  in December 2022  this service can only 
consider the merits of that complaint if there are exceptional circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs G have referred to them prioritising a family member, due to illness, in 2021. I 
sympathise with their difficulties at the time. But Im not persuaded that would have 
prevented them bringing a complaint to this service in time. So unfortunately, I cant consider 
the complaint addressed by RSA in August 2021.
Ive set out above what I cant consider in this final decision. I can however look at the merits 
of the complaint RSA responded to in September 2022. This is about the premium increase 
for their 2022 renewal. 
As our investigator explained its not for this service to tell an insurer how to price their 
policies, but we can consider it they are treating all their customers consistently and fairly. 
Having considered what RSA and Mr and Mrs G have provided Ive no reason to believe 
they havent been treated consistently with the insurers general approach to pricing. I 
havent seen anything to make me think mistakes have been made with their premium. Ive 
considered RSAs explanation and calculations for the 2022 premium. I cant see anything 
that concerns me.
Mr and Mrs G feel RSA, as it gave them £200 compensation previously, should offer 
something similar each year. That compensation was intended as an apology for the 
surprise of a large increase. Since then RSAs explained how the pricing of the policy works, 
so any increase, whilst unwelcome, shouldnt be a surprise. So I dont agree that it should 
have offered similar compensation for the 2022 renewal premium.
I appreciate the frustration Mr and Mrs G feel here. But I cant say RSA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So Im not going to require it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman