DRN-1640562
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out with a credit card in February 2000. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the 
PPI. Although the credit card was originally sold by Egg, Barclays has taken responsibility 
for the sale of the card and the policy. 
What happened
Mr M says Barclays mis-sold him a PPI policy when he took out a credit card. He says he 
didnt know he had PPI and he didnt need the policy.
Barclays rejected this complaint. It says Mr M applied for a credit card online in February 
2000 and at this time he chose to take out a PPI policy. It says the policy cost 59p per £100 
of the monthly outstanding balance, and it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding monthly 
balance on the credit card for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. In the 
unfortunate event of Mr Ms death the policy wouldve cleared the outstanding balance.
Our adjudicator looked at this case and said he didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M 
disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. Having done that, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because this 
Service holds copies of the internet screenshots in use in 2000 that Barclays says are 
representative of the screens that Mr M wouldve seen when he applied for his credit card.
Customers were given two options about PPI. The first confirmed they wanted to take it, the 
second confirmed they didnt want to take it. Both options were presented equally 
prominently and Barclays says that neither option was pre-populated. And it says customers 
wouldve been presented with hyperlinks to the policy summary and policy document 
information. Barclays does hold system data from February 2000, when Mr M applied for his 
credit card including his personal details, the name of his employer, his salary and his other 
outgoings  and this information also shows he chose to take PPI.
Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied that Mr M was presented with a choice as to 
whether or not he took out the cover, and that the optional nature of the policy shouldve 
been clear to him.Furthermore, the premiums for the policy wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card 
statements - so if he hadnt agreed to the policy, or if it had been added to his account 
without either his knowledge or his consent, I think its reasonable to say he wouldve 
queried the premiums shortly after the policy was added. So taking all this into consideration, 
I think Mr M knew the policy was optional and chose to purchase it because he saw some 
value in it in 2000.
Barclays didnt recommend the policy or advise Mr M to take it out. I say this because there 
wasnt any involvement from a representative at the time of the sale  the application was 
completed on the internet. This means Barclays didnt have to take adequate steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information 
he needed to decide whether or not to take the policy out. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  he told us he was 
employed and had no pre-existing medical conditions  so it would have been useful for him 
if something went wrong. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said about the sale of the PPI itself  but these 
points dont change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman