DRN-2116651
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that Mr D had with his
credit card. Mr D says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold the PPI.
Background
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. HSBC disagreed so the complaint
has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 16 July 2020, I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mr D replied saying he never said he wasnt employed and 
was unhappy that his complaint was no longer being upheld in his favour. HSBC has not 
made any further comments.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC has found very few records of this PPI and it cant confirm when or how it was sold. 
Mr D doesnt recall when he bought the PPI but does remember completing a postal
application. The documents that both HSBC and Mr D have submitted are extremely limited, 
so it is very difficult to know what happened at the time the PPI was purchased.
The lack of Information and evidence available from the time of sale is understandable given
how long ago the policy was sold. But where there is limited information available, I have to 
decide what I think is more likely based on the information and evidence that is available,
including Mr Ds testimony.
Mr D says he became unemployed in December 1997 due to illness and made a claim on
the PPI at the time. Our adjudicator treated the date of sale as December 1997 as this is the
earliest evidence we have of the PPI (which is evidence of a claim being paid by the insurer).
He felt as Mr D was unemployed at the time, he wouldnt have been eligible for the policy so
thought the complaint should be upheld.
But having reviewed everything both HSBC and Mr D have submitted, I dont think thats
right. Mr D made a successful claim on the PPI in December 1997. Had he bought the policy
at this time, as he was off sick (and potentially unemployed), he wouldnt have been eligible
for the policy. According to the policy terms in force at the time, an unemployment claim
would not be paid for two months after the start date, and he wouldnt even have met the
basic criteria to apply for the policy if he was off sick.
If he had bought the PPI in the same month as claiming on it, rather than paying a claim, I
think its more likely his insurer wouldve declined the claim based on the fact that he was
ineligible for the policy to begin with.
So, I dont think its likely the policy was sold in December 1997 and its more likely it was
sold sometime before that  that would explain why Mr D was able to make a successful
claim in December 1997.
Mr D has said he wouldnt have applied for a credit card when he was unemployed. HSBCs
records show Mr D had been employed since 1990, which indicates that when he applied,
(whenever that was) hed told them he was employed since 1990. Had he applied in
December 1997  its likely this record wouldve been changed to reflect his circumstances
at that time.
So, I think its more likely the policy was sold sometime before December 1997.
Mr D says he bought the PPI using a postal application form and as Ive explained above,
the earliest evidence weve seen of the PPI is from December 1997. HSBC has provided
sample applications forms that it was using throughout 1997  and having checked all of
them, it provided customers with a choice to add PPI by ticking a box requesting cover or
decline it by ticking an alternative box saying they didnt need cover.
Overall, with such little information available, based on what I have seen, I think its more
likely HSBC made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it
out.
HSBC doesnt know if it recommended the PPI to Mr D but Mr D says it did. As this was a
postal application, I dont think its likely HSBC recommended the PPI. But as Ive got such
little information, for completeness, Ive looked at this case as if HSBC did recommend the
PPI, as this holds it to a higher standard. It would mean HSBC should have checked the PPI
was right for Mr D  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think
that it was.
Given that I think the PPI was sold before December 1997, I also think its likely Mr D was
employed at the time. He also hasnt mentioned any medical conditions he had prior to
December 1997. Based on this, he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions to
or limits on the PPI cover. Mr D also seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr D was likely employed so he may have had some employee benefits such as sick pay.
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of any employee benefits he may have had for up to
12 months for accident, sickness and unemployment. So I think he couldve found the policy
useful in the event he found himself unexpectedly out of work. Indeed, he made a successful
claim and had the benefit paid for 12 months, which I wouldve thought he found useful at
the time.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out
the cover.
Overall, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.Ive also thought about whether HSBC needs to give Mr D some of the commission he paid
back. In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA), issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. But these rules and guidance only apply
to agreements that were still in force on 6 April 2008. HSBC says Mr Ds credit agreement
ended before this date so, they dont apply. So HSBC doesnt need to refund any of the
commission Mr D paid for the PPI he had with that credit card.
Mr D has replied saying he never said he wasnt employed, and he is disappointed that Ive 
not found in his favour. I believe Mr D has given us his best recollection of events and his 
testimony has been helpful in assisting me with deciding this case. But as I mentioned in my 
provisional decision, I already acknowledged that Mr D has said he wouldnt have applied for 
a credit card and PPI if he was unemployed, so I think he was employed. And for the 
reasons explained, I think that means he was eligible for the PPI policy and I think it was 
right for him too. 
I appreciate Mr D is disappointed with my findings but in the absence of any other points for 
me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision. With this in mind, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman