DRN-3696573
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how his order to buy shares was carried out by AJ Bell Securities
Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest (AJ Bell). Specifically Mr M says the buy price was too 
high.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 22 August 2022. Ive repeated here what I said about the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
I dont think the facts are in dispute. Mr M had a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with
AJ Bell. Mr M placed an order over the telephone to purchase some shares using AJ Bells
execution only service. The trade was made in US dollars. The buy price quoted over the
telephone was $13.65. After the transaction was completed and Mr M received the contract
note, he saw the price was $14.17 per unit. He didnt think that was correct. He telephoned
the same day to query the price and the exchange rate applied on the transaction. AJ Bell
provided a breakdown of the foreign exchange (FX) charges applied but Mr M remained
dissatisfied with the price AJ Bell had obtained.
AJ Bell treated what Mr M had said as a complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, AJ Bell
said it had carried out the trade in accordance with Mr Ms instructions. It explained that the
share price quoted couldnt be guaranteed. AJ Bell couldnt be held responsible for the
changes in value of the share prices which could go up or down due to market conditions. It
said its terms and conditions clearly explained the charging structure that applied on the
transaction. It added that the telephone dealing charge had been disclosed.
Mr M remained unhappy. He said the buy price quoted by AJ Bell was initially indicative. But
the buy price quoted on the contract was significantly higher than the actual buy price at that
time. He felt hed been overcharged at the point the trade was executed. And he queried
why hed been charged a £30 dealing fee which wasnt real time and when other firms
charged £10 for real time execution. He said the fees charged by AJ Bell were excessive
and not in line with its competitors.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. About the buy price he said, although Mr M had
provided details from another business to support his complaint, that didnt mean the
complaint should be upheld. The investigator referred to AJ Bells terms and conditions
which said that the order might not be executed at the price stated. And the terms and
conditions referred to the FX charge  they said a FX charge will be applied to the value of
the deal. When Mr M had called to place the order to buy the shares it had also been
explained that FX charges would apply. Mr M had also been made aware that a telephone
dealing charge of £29.95 would apply. That charge was also set out in the terms and
conditions. The amount of the charge was for AJ Bell to determine. That was a commercial
decision which we wouldnt interfere in.
Mr M said the investigator had missed the point. Which was that, at the time the order was
executed, the price hed been charged was significantly higher than the actual market price.
He provided evidence in the form of an email dated 23 February 2021 from a stockbrokerage
firm in the USA as to the share buy price on the date and time in question.
The investigator considered what Mr M had said and the email hed provided. The
investigator had also obtained some further information from AJ Bell. It had explained that it
uses a third party  a Retail Service Provider (RSP)  to arrange the trade. When AJ Bell
receives an order from a client it will simultaneously poll a number of RSPs to find the best
price available. The investigator didnt think AJ Bell had acted unfairly, despite Mr Ms
disappointment with the price obtained.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked that the complaint be escalated to an ombudsman.
When I looked at the complaint I raised a number of further queries with AJ Bell. Ive referred
below to what AJ told us in response to my queries.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M opened his SIPP in October 2018 he agreed to AJ Bells Order Execution Policy
which forms part of the terms and conditions. It says, for orders placed over the telephone,
the Dealing Services Team will provide a price indication for the requested security. And
section 5.5 of the terms and conditions says:
"Any price You are given or Cost You are advised of, whether on the Website or otherwise,
will be indicative only because market prices can change at any time. We do not warrant or
guarantee the accuracy of the price or the Cost.
I dont think Mr M disagrees he accepted that when he opened his SIPP. And he was
reminded during the telephone call when he placed his order that the price quoted was
indicative and might not be the price he actually received. I think he also accepts he was
informed about the FX charges and the dealing fee.
In so far as the latter is concerned, it seems Mr M thinks that fee is excessive. But Id agree
with the investigator that what charges AJ Bell levies is largely a matter for it so long as the
charges are clear and notified to clients. If AJ Bells charges arent competitive that may lead
to business being lost but whether AJ Bells fees are in line with other providers isnt
something wed look into. Nor would we say that charges which might be higher than those
offered by others in the same market place must be unfair.
But I dont think the dealing charge or any other fees levied is Mr Ms main issue. I think his
complaint relates directly to the price of the shares  he says he was charged too much. The
price was higher than that mentioned during the telephone call. But Mr M says it was also
higher than the market price  that is the price of the shares on the particular day and at the
time the order was placed. And hes provided evidence to support what he says  the email
dated 23 February 2021 from brokers in the USA.
I dont think that email was of itself conclusive. As Ive said below, different brokers may
quote different prices for the same shares. So I tried to find some further evidence from a
known, UK based source. But I had difficulties in tracing the shares. AJ Bell has explained
that the company was a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) and had merged into
Microvast Inc in July 2021. As a result, historical data was very difficult if not impossible to
obtain now. The evidence I was seeking (as to the share price on that date and the highest
and lowest prices during that day) was no longer held and AJ Bell had been unable to obtain
it from any other reputable source. I think what AJ Bell has said confirms my own experience
and that it isnt going to be possible to obtain further historical information as to the shareprice on the day and how it moved during the day.
As to the trade itself, AJ Bell had told us that the price dealt was the best price available from
a number of internally approved RSPs. I think that confirms what Ive said about different
prices being quoted. Id asked if there was a record of the number of RSPs polled and the
prices quoted by each. AJ Bell apologised for any confusion caused by what it had said
earlier but explained that RSPs are used for online trades but werent relevant to Mr Ms
trade as it was over the telephone. From a review of AJ Bells system, the stock hadnt been
set up for online trading at the time. So no RSPs were polled as that wasnt the applicable
procedure for trading that stock. In accordance with its Order Execution Policy, where no
RSP quote is available, the order will be placed through a UK based market maker. This was
an international equity stock and AJ Bell only deals with two brokers for such trades. The
order was placed with one of those two named companies.
As to the precise timings, I understand that Mr M was given an indicative price of $13.65 at
15.58.47. He stated that wasnt a real time price and AJ Bell confirmed the figure was
subject to a 15 minute delay and reiterated the figure was purely indicative and it wasnt
guaranteed when or at what price the order will deal. The order was incepted at 16.01.16
and executed at 16.02.40.
I agree with AJ Bell that Mr M was aware that the quoted price was indicative and he knew
that the trade might not execute at that price. The trade was placed through a reputable,
high ranked, UK market maker and was executed at $14.17. Different brokers/market
makers will offer different prices. I understand Mr Ms secure messages to AJ Bell show he
knew the price was around $14 so the price paid wasnt inconsistent with that. AJ Bell noted
that, between 16.00 and 16.05 that day, the price fluctuated from $13.91 to $14.71. I agree
that it wouldnt be unusual for the price to have fluctuated similarly between when Mr M
checked the price and when the trade was executed by AJ Bells selected broker.
Overall, I think AJ Bell complied with its Order Execution Policy. I think the price at which the
trade was executed reflected market conditions and the sort of share price fluctuations that
can be experienced over a relatively short time frame. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think
the price AJ Bell obtained was too low.
Neither Mr M nor AJ Bell made any further comments in response to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out above in full my provisional findings and these form part of this decision. 
In the absence of any further comments, arguments, information or evidence from either 
party, my views remain as set out in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision I dont think AJ Bell has done anything 
wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman