DRN-3401184
The complaint
Mr S makes a number of complaints about Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) in relation to a 
credit card account he had with them.
What happened
Mr S initially made a complaint to Vanquis to say that it had irresponsibly lent to him. 
Vanquis responded to Mr Ss complaint and upheld it  providing him with a refund of 
interest and charges applied to the account  alongside 8% simple interest per annum on 
any overpayments. Vanquis applied the refund to Mr Ss outstanding credit card debt and 
then paid the remaining amount into Mr Ss bank account. Mr S was told the redress would 
be in his account by 5pm on 8 December 2021, however this wasnt received in time.
Mr S wasnt happy that Vanquis applied the majority of the redress to his credit card debt. 
He also complained that it took too long for the redress to be paid  for which Vanquis paid 
Mr S an additional £50 to compensate him for the delay. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr S but they didnt uphold his complaint. They didnt 
think it was unfair of Vanquis to apply the refund to the outstanding credit card debt, and 
they found that the £50 compensation for the delay in paying the redress to him was a fair 
amount. 
Mr S responded to our Investigator  it doesnt appear that he disagreed with the 
Investigators findings on this point, but he said that he didnt think the amount Vanquis had 
agreed to refund him was correct and that he had paid more in interest and charges. 
Our Investigator got in touch with Vanquis about this. Vanquis showed the Investigator the 
calculations it used to issue the refund, and they also provided an updated calculation which 
showed that Mr S was owed an additional £322.53, which Vanquis said it would round up to 
£350 and pay to Mr S. 
Mr S said he wanted more than this. The Investigator asked Mr S for his own calculations 
and an explanation as to why he thought Vanquiss calculations were wrong. However, Mr S 
responded to accept the £350, and provided his bank details for the payment and didnt 
provide any more context as to why he thought the redress had been calculated incorrectly. 
Mr S still asked for a decision on the matter. So, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything on file, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
It isnt clear from Mr Ss submissions exactly which part of his complaint he still disagrees 
with. But for completeness, I will cover his main concerns off below. 
Where theres an outstanding debt owed on an account, a firm, like Vanquis can use redress 
to repay the outstanding balance, which is what has happened in Mr Ss case. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont find Vanquiss actions here to be unfair or 
unreasonable. 
I appreciate there was some delay in Vanquis paying the redress to Mr S, but I think Vanquis 
has fairly compensated Mr S for this. 
In relation to the redress calculations, I note from Mr Ss email he sent to this service that he 
accepted the further offer of redress from Vanquis. So, I dont think he is still disputing the 
amount it has refunded him. But even if he is, I have seen a copy of Vanquiss updated 
redress calculations, and I havent seen anything in the calculations that would lead me to 
believe that they arent correct. Mr S hasnt provided any information as to why he believes 
these to still be incorrect. So, without any compelling evidence from Mr S to refute Vanquiss 
calculations, I dont find that the redress Vanquis has paid to Mr S is unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman