DRN-3198409
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct (First Direct), wont refund 
the money she lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Miss F made an international payment of £1,577.23 on 29 September 2020 from her savings 
account with First Direct for what she believed was a hotel booking. She saw the hotel 
advertised online. 
On Miss F learning of travel restrictions to the holiday destination, she contacted the hotel to 
cancel the booking. It was at this point, the hotel informed Miss F she didnt have a booking 
and she realised shed been the victim of a scam.  
Miss F contacted First Direct to ask for its help on 2 October 2020. Shes told us there was 
difficulty in reporting the scam and that she is unhappy with the service she received. In 
particular, Miss F has told us she was keep on hold for hours across a number of days in 
which shed attempted to reach the fraud department with no success. Miss F is unhappy 
that after being on hold for hours the line then went dead and that she didnt receive a call 
back that was scheduled. Miss F feels First Directs handling of her case has made the 
situation more stressful and difficult. 
First Direct responded to Miss Fs complaint and said it would not be reimbursing for the loss 
as the result of the scam. It said the payment Miss F made was not covered under the 
voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) as the payment was sent 
outside of the UK. It added that Miss F authorised the payment via her online banking 
service and it cannot take responsibility for the deception against her and offer a refund. 
First Direct acknowledged the working from home arrangements at the time unfortunately 
meant its call handing times on occasions were affected. It apologised Miss F did not receive 
a call-back as expected. It also acknowledged the high call volumes to its fraud team and 
apologised for any stress or inconvenience this may have added to what was already a 
difficult time for Miss F. In recognition of the call costs incurred First Direct increased its offer 
of £25 to £50 which has been paid to Miss F. 
Miss F remained unhappy with First Directs response and so she referred her complaint to 
this service for review. 
Our investigator didnt think First Direct ought to have been expected to prevent this loss. He 
didnt think the payment was so unusual or suspicious in appearance, given the normal 
account activity, that it ought to have caused First Direct concern that Miss F was at risk of 
being scammed. He thought First Direct took the steps it should have once it was aware of 
the scam. He explained that given when Miss F discovered the scam and reported it to the 
bank, it was unlikely any funds would have remained in the beneficiarys account as 
fraudsters tend to move the funds on quickly. He also noted that First Direct had contacted 
the beneficiary bank but initially no response was received. It later responded to say no 
funds remained. 
Our investigator recognised the level of service provided by First Direct led to Miss F 
experiencing some inconvenience but didnt feel this overall impacted the outcome of 
Miss Fs scam claim. He recognised what Miss F had said about the hours spent on hold 
trying to get through to the fraud department, but was mindful that she was informed of the 
long wait times, was given an arranged call back and that Miss F made the choice to be 
placed in the queue and to also call back on 3 and 4 October 2020. He felt First Directs offer 
of £50 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As Miss F disagreed, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss F and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose. 
But having thought very carefully about First Directs actions, I dont uphold this complaint. I 
will now explain why. 
I have simply looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being: should First Direct 
have recognised Miss Fs payment as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done 
so, would it have made a difference to what happened.
I accept Miss F has been the victim of a scam. It is also clear that this situation and losing 
this money has caused her stress and I dont underestimate the difficult time she has had. 
But that alone doesnt mean Miss F should be reimbursed by the bank. That all depends on 
whether the bank did anything wrong  that is, could it have done any more to prevent the 
scam from taking place or intervened so that Miss F would have realised what was 
happening and stopped before sending the money. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. When Miss F made the payment, 
she sent the money in good faith and didnt know she was dealing with a fraudster. But it 
was still an authorised payment. Although Miss F did not intend for the money to go to a 
fraudster, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
First Direct should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.In this case, I need to decide whether First Direct acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss F or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Miss F doesnt dispute she made the payment herself. So First Direct had an obligation to 
follow her instructions and make the payment she requested. But there are some situations 
in which a bank should reasonably have a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
payment. As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice First Direct 
shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive first thought about whether the payment Miss F made was out of character and unusual 
enough that First Direct ought to have intervened. There is a delicate balance to be struck. 
There are many millions of payments made each day and it would not be possible or 
reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. Having reviewed Miss Fs savings account 
statements in the months leading up to the payment, I can see she made internal transfers 
which were similar in amounts to that of the scam payment. While I recognise that the scam 
payment was the first payment to a new payee and an international payment, I dont think 
this alone is enough to say First Direct should have treated the payment as suspicious. I 
have to keep in mind that it is not uncommon for customers to make one-off payments on 
occasion for a specific purpose  such as for booking a holiday as in this particular case. 
I also note that the payment didnt significantly reduce the balance of the account  with 
there still being a healthy balance after the payment was made. So, it follows that I dont 
think First Direct acted unreasonably by not making any enquiries about the payment before 
processing it. This means it didnt do anything wrong by following the instructions Miss F 
gave and sending the payment without further checks.
Ive also thought about what First Direct did when it became aware of the scam. Ive looked 
into the attempts First Direct made to recover the money, once Miss F reported the scam. In 
order for me to be able to fairly ask First Direct to refund the money to Miss F, I need to be 
satisfied First Direct should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont 
think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference. 
In this case it is recognised by First Direct that there were high call volumes at the time 
Miss F called to report the scam. It has also said that working from home arrangements can 
on occasions affect the banks call handling times, which can also be impacted by the level of 
fraud it is dealing with. In any event, I consider that a customer should be able to get in 
contact with the fraud department to report a scam in a timely manner and so, I can 
understand why Miss F will have felt disappointed in not having been able to speak with the 
fraud department. This said, Ive seen information which shows the scam was reported on 
2 October 2020  the day Miss F called - despite her not being able to speak with the fraud 
department directly. Ive also seen that contact was made with the receiving bank on 
3 October 2020. And while I am mindful this was the day after Miss F called to report the 
scam, I dont think this made a difference in this particular case. I say this because, Miss F 
realised shed been the victim of a scam several days after shed made the payment on 
29 September 2020. Im persuaded, on balance, it is more likely than not that the funds had 
already left the receiving account as from my experience of these types of cases, fraudsters 
usually move the funds on quickly. Information given to us also shows the receiving bank 
replied to First Direct to say no funds remained. So, even if I consider that there was some 
delay in reporting the scam and in First Direct contacting the receiving bank, on balance, I 
dont think this made a difference to the recovery of Miss Fs funds in this case. 
Customer serviceMiss F is unhappy with the level of service shes received from First Direct and has referred 
to being on hold for hours, not receiving an arranged call back and the stress that this has 
caused her. First Direct in its response to Miss F acknowledged the wait times and 
apologised for her not receiving a call back as expected. It also acknowledged the high call 
volumes being received into its fraud department and that Miss F wouldve expected her call 
to have been answered much quicker than it was and for it not to be cut off. It apologised for 
any stress and inconvenience this may have caused to what was an already difficult time. In 
recognition of the call costs it initially credited £25 to Miss Fs account which was increased 
to £50 in total. 
In view of this, it appears to be accepted that the service Miss F received couldve been 
better. But I cant see that this impacted Miss Fs scam claim  its terms of it being reported 
and investigated. And for the reasons Ive already set out above, even if I considered there 
were some delays, I dont think this made a difference to the recovery of Miss Fs funds. I 
also have to keep in mind that from the calls Ive listened to Miss F was informed of the wait 
times and while a call back was arranged, she asked to be placed in the queue to wait for 
the fraud department. 
I do recognise this would have been a difficult time for Miss F and why she would have 
wanted to speak with the fraud department as soon as possible in order to resolve this 
matter. But in light that a call back had been arranged for the 5 October 2020, it was then 
Miss Fs choice to contact First Direct further on 3 and 4 October 2020. 
So overall, I think the £50 First Direct has already paid to Miss F is reasonable in the 
circumstances. I fully appreciate that Miss F has suffered real stress and upset due to what 
has happened and Im sorry to hear of the impact its had on her health. But the main cause 
of this is due to the actions of the fraudsters and Miss F falling victim to a scam. And, on 
balance, I dont think any service failings means First Direct should be held responsible for 
Miss Fs financial loss as a result of the scam. 
I have considerable sympathy for what Miss F has been through. There is no doubt that she 
has been the victim of a cruel scam. But I am only able to consider whether First Direct can 
fairly be held liable for her loss. After carefully considering everything, Im unable to fairly say 
First Direct should reimburse the money Miss F has lost. And while I accept the service 
Miss F received may not have been to the level wed have expected, the £50 paid in total to 
Miss F is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It follows that I make no further 
recommendations for this aspect.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 Staci Rowland
Ombudsman