DRN-3819030
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Erudio Student Loans Limited provided poor service, failed to 
defer his loan when requested and has now defaulted his loan.
What happened
Mr H applied to defer payments in September 2021 which Erudio declined on the basis that 
he hadnt provided any supporting evidence. Because no subsequent payments were made 
and no response was received to its arrears letters, Mr H was then sent a notice of default 
(NOD) on 26 November 2021. 
Mr H contacted Erudio in December 2021 asking again for the loan to be deferred. He was 
sent a new deferment application form (DAF) and advised to re-apply to avoid termination of 
the account. He was also asked to provide payslips for September, October and November 
2021. However, when he returned the form he only included his November 2021 payslip. 
Erudio chased Mr H for the outstanding payslips but he was adamant that he didnt need to 
supply more than one. As a result, the deferment wasnt set up and Mr H was sent a further 
NOD on 1 March 2022 and the account was terminated on 30 March 2022.
Our investigator thought that Erudio had acted reasonably and so did not uphold the 
complaint. Mr H disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he told Erudio on a number of occasions that he had moved. However, he says it 
failed to update his address which resulted in him not receiving important communication, 
such as the arrears notices and NODs. 
Mr H has more recently provided this service with some evidence that he moved house on 1 
August 2021. However, he hasnt provided any evidence that he informed Erudio of this at 
the time. Erudio says Mr H did not tell it about a change of address and it has provided 
copies of its system contact notes to confirm this. It wasnt until a phone call on 7 April 2022 
that Erudio records Mr H confirming his new address. Although Mr H would disagree, in the 
absence of any other information, I have no reason to conclude that Erudios contact records 
are inaccurate or that it has recorded some contacts and not others.
Although Mr H moved house on 1 August 2021, he still used his old address on the DAF that 
he submitted on 1 September 2021. And although Mr H mentions in his email of 13 
December 2021 that he had moved, he doesnt state his new address in the email. Erudio 
responds on 16 December 2021 asking him to confirm his current address. I cant see that 
Mr H responded directly to this request. But when he submitted a new DAF on 21 December 
2021, it still contained his old address. Also, the November 2021 payslip that he supplies 
with the DAF shows his old address.
The NOD sent out on 1 March 2022 and the termination letter sent on 30 March 2022 are 
addressed to the old address. I appreciate that Mr H had mentioned to Erudio that he had 
moved by this time. But I cant see that he told them where he had moved to and he had 
given them contradictory information by using his old address on his DAFs. Also, the 
evidence suggests that Mr H was previously receiving post sent to his old address  
because his email to Erudio in December 2021 is complaining about receiving aggressive 
letters.
On balance, based on the available evidence, I consider it was reasonable in the 
circumstances that Erudio continued to send letters to the address it had on file.
Mr H says the deferment should have been set up on the basis of the one payslip that he 
provided in December 2021 and that Erudios insistence on three payslips is outside the 
terms and conditions of his original agreement. But hes also said that he did originally send 
in three payslips by post but that Erudio probably lost them.
Mr H first took out his loans in 2000 with another company and the loans were taken over by 
Erudio in 2014. 
The original agreement states that a borrower can defer making payments to their loan if 
they can show:
i) that your income for the relevant month is not more than the deferment level and
ii) if we ask, that your gross average monthly income during the 3 months immediately 
following the relevant month will not or is unlikely to be more than the deferment 
level
Based on the above, the previous company could have asked Mr H to provide more 
information about his income and the above terms do not set out the type of information that 
might be requested. Erudio has standardised the information it requests, asking for the 
previous three months payslips as an indication of salary for the following months. I consider 
this to be a reasonable and proportionate request that does not contravene the terms of the 
original agreement.
Mr H had made a previous complaint in 2014 about the level of information required in 
support of a DAF. Erudio explained at that time that it had adopted a slightly different 
approach to the previous company. It said that, whilst the previous company could have 
asked for additional information at any time during the deferment assessment, it was asking 
for it up front to avoid any delays. Mr H was therefore aware in 2014 of Erudios approach to 
supporting documents for the DAF.
Mr H says he previously complied with the requirement to provide three payslips and had 
sent these in by post. He completed the December 2021 DAF using an online portal and 
only uploaded his November 2021 payslip at that time. If, as Mr H says, he had previously 
been willing to provide three payslips, its perhaps surprising that he took such a firm stance 
in relation to his December 2021 application and refused to provide more than one payslip at 
that time. On 13 January 2022 Erudio advised Mr H that his DAF remained incomplete but it 
did not hear back from him any further.
Overall, Im satisfied that Erudio acted reasonably in asking for three payslips and that it 
explained this to Mr H and allowed him sufficient opportunity to respond. Therefore, Erudio is 
not at fault for the deferment not being set up.I do understand that Mr H was experiencing difficulties with his mental health during the 
period when he was trying to arrange the deferment. But again, although he says that he told 
Erudio about this, he hasnt been able to provide any evidence of doing so. Erudio says it 
first heard of this issue after Mr H referred his complaint to this service.
As our investigator has said, if Erudio had known about Mr Hs health, it would have likely 
made adjustments in the form of allowing him more time to complete the deferment 
application. However, the DAF failed because Mr H declined to provide the extra payslips 
rather than him not being given enough time to complete the process. So he isnt any worse 
off as a result of Erudio not taking his medical issues into account.
Mr H says that the account was then cancelled without notice. Erudio did send the regulatory 
letters that it was required to do. However, as previously mentioned, these were sent to Mr 
Hs old address because he did not provide his new address. He says he didnt receive the 
NOD although the available evidence suggests that the termination letter was forwarded to 
him. Regardless of this, Im satisfied that Mr H was aware of the consequences of not setting 
up the deferment or making payments. Erudio had make it clear to Mr H in late December 
2021 that failure to continue with that years deferment would result in the deferment being 
cancelled and the account being terminated. Contact in January 2022 made it clear that the 
deferment had not been set up. 
Mr H says that if he had received the NOD he would have pushed to have the deferment 
processed. However, knowing that the deferment hadnt been set up, he had the opportunity 
between December 2021 and March 2022 to prevent the account defaulting by providing 
additional payslips but he chose not to do so.
Our investigator has set out the circumstances in which Erudio is entitled to terminated the 
agreement and default the loan. Im satisfied that Erudio acted fairly in terminating the 
agreement in March 2022.
Mr H has also said that Erudio has harassed him by sending him aggressive letters. Erudio 
has sent Mr H a number of standard letters such as arrears notices and NODs. I appreciate 
that such correspondence would be upsetting for Mr H. But the letters that have been sent 
are regulatory letters that Erudio is required to send. These contain factual information and 
are not unnecessarily aggressive or threatening. So Im unable to conclude that Erudio has 
harassed Mr H.
More recently Mr H has told us that Erudio has re-started debt collection activities, having 
originally agreed to suspend it whilst the complaint ran its course, which is further 
harassment. He is particularly unhappy with the contents of a phone call that took place on 
28 October 2022. As our investigator has explained, as this issue did not form part of the 
original complaint, I will not be addressing it here. Mr H would need to go through Erudios 
complaint process initially and then bring a new complaint to us if he is unhappy with the 
outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman