DRN-3375283
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard when attempting to make a payment towards his credit card.
What happened
Mr L holds a credit card with Barclaycard. The credit card was on a 0% interest rate that was 
due to run until 1 November 2020. In September 2020, Mr L attempted to make an online 
payment towards his card while abroad but, due to access issues, he was unable to. He tried 
calling Barclaycard, but said their lines were extremely busy and he was unable to get 
through. He said it wasnt until he returned to the UK the following day that he managed to 
make the payment using Barclaycards automated service. But by this time the payment was 
late, and he was subsequently charged a late fee. Interest had also accrued, as his 0% offer 
was removed due to the late payment. So, he complained. 
Mr L said that the online access issues persisted for around five days, and that Barclaycard 
had failed to provide critical essential services when needed. He wants them to remove any 
negative record of the late payment, issue him with an apology, and provide compensation. 
Barclaycard considered Mr Ls complaint, and apologised for the issues he experienced in 
accessing his credit card online. They also apologised for their call wait times, which they 
explained had been severely impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. So they offered Mr L £25 
compensation as an apology for the reduction in service, and said that the late payment 
would not be recorded as such with the credit reference agencies. But Mr L remained 
unhappy, and asked Barclaycard to look into things further. 
Barclaycard carried out a further review, and agreed that their initial investigation was 
insufficient. So, in addition to what was offered, they agreed to pay Mr L a further £100, 
taking the total compensation to £125. They also agreed to refund the £12 late payment fee 
that had accrued, along with the £20.55 interest he was charged in October 2020. But Mr L 
remained unhappy, and said the matter had caused him great anxiety. So he brought his 
complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Ls complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
accepted there were shortcomings on Barclaycards part, and that these caused Mr L 
distress. But she felt Barclaycards apology, along with the payment theyd made for £157.55 
(made up of £125 compensation, the £12 late payment fee, and the £20.55 interest charge), 
was a fair resolution to Mr Ls complaint. 
But Mr L still remained unhappy, and in response to the investigators opinion, raised several 
concerns, including being unable to contact Barclaycard during their advertised opening 
times; and he again requested that Barclaycard remove the missed payment from their 
internal records, as well as ensuring it wasnt reported to credit reference agencies.  
The investigator issued a further opinion, but maintained her position. She agreed 
Barclaycard were right not to record the payment as late with the credit reference agencies, 
but she felt that it should show as late on Barclaycards internal systems, as this was an 
accurate reflection of what had happened. But she did accept that the late payment was 
through no fault of Mr Ls. She also acknowledged it would have been frustrating not being 
able to contact Barclaycard during their advertised opening hours, but felt the total 
compensation paid was still adequate when taking this into account. 
Mr L remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the initial issues Mr L had with access, I appreciate this must have been 
frustrating. It seems to me, from what hes told us, that he made every attempt to make his 
September 2020 payment on time, but was unable to. So I can appreciate why he wouldve 
been upset to find that not only had the payment been recorded as late, but that he had 
been charged a late payment fee; and that interest had begun to accrue on a card that was 
supposed to have a 0% interest rate until 1 November 2020.
My role, when looking at cases such as this, or any case in fact, is to try and put the 
customer back in the position they would have been, or as close to it as is reasonably 
feasible, had nothing gone wrong. 
Barclaycard have said that there were no known prolonged issues with their online banking 
systems around the time that Mr L was having trouble accessing them. But they dont doubt 
Mr Ls testimony, and accept he was experiencing difficulty in gaining online access around 
this time. Theyve also said their call wait times were much longer than theyd hoped for, but 
that the Covid-19 pandemic had severely impact their ability to answer calls within normal 
timescales. 
Mr L argues that Barclaycard are denying what he thinks were known issues at this time. But 
Ive seen no definitive evidence, other than Mr Ls testimony, that would lead me to conclude 
that this was the case. And even if it were, while I wouldnt find this acceptable, my role here 
is to consider the impact that the lack of access to online banking had on Mr L. And I dont 
think Barclaycards knowledge, or lack thereof of any known issues, ultimately, would have 
changed the impact this matter had on Mr L. So Im not upholding this element of his 
complaint. 
I can appreciate that Mr L expects Barclaycards systems to have worked around this time, 
and is right to be frustrated that they didnt. I also appreciate it wouldve been frustrating not 
to be able to reach Barclaycard by phone during their advertised opening hours. But equally, 
there will be times where customers have problems accessing a businesss systems, and 
things dont always go to plan. And it wouldnt be fair for me to direct Barclaycard to ensure 
that their systems work for instance, when this isnt something they can guarantee. What I 
can look at however, is how much I think Barclaycards failings have impacted Mr L. And 
what, if any, compensation is due. 
In this case, I appreciate that external factors impacted Barclaycards ability to provide a full 
service. The Covid-19 pandemic has, for many businesses, impacted their ability to provide 
services in the way they usually might. And advertised service levels and standards for many 
banks, and other businesses, have been affected as a result. That being said, I still think the 
lack of online access and being unable to get through by phone when he needed to, wouldve 
been incredibly frustrating for Mr L, so I do think some compensation here is due. 
 Turning to the issue of the late payment fee and interest that accrued on Mr Ls card during 
his 0% interest period, Barclaycard have accepted Mr L made every attempt to make his 
payment on time, but was unable to. And to be clear, from the evidence provided, I think the 
issues Mr L had with making his payment were through no fault of his own. But when looking 
at what Barclaycard needs to do to resolve this issue, I can already see that theyve agreed 
to refund all late charges in respect of this payment; refund any interest accrued during this 
period; and, ensure that no adverse information is recorded against Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to this payment. So, for the most part, Barclaycard have put Mr L back in the position 
he would have been, had the payment shown as being made on time. So, the last area for 
me to consider, is what Barclaycards systems should reflect internally.
Mr L has argued that its not just the external credit reference agencies data that can have 
an impact on his credit score, but has said that banks will also hold internal scores for 
customers, based on their own records, which will be considered when looking at things like  
account promotions, and credit limit increases. 
I dont doubt what Mr L has said here and I accept that this may be case. But as of yet, Mr L 
hasnt shown anything that demonstrates that his internal score has been affected, or that it 
has had an impact on him taking out further credit with Barclaycard. Nor can I see that hes 
been denied a certain account promotion or not been considered for a credit limit increase 
for instance. So, while I accept Mr Ls concerns, I havent seen anything to show that hes 
been impacted by this, and cannot award compensation for something that might happen. 
Equally, while I accept it will be frustrating for Mr L to know that Barclaycards internal 
records may show the payment as not being received on time, banks do have an obligation 
to hold accurate records. And simply amending the payment to show it was received at an 
earlier date would not be a true reflection of when the payment was received. Barclaycard 
have however confirmed the late payment will have no impact on Mr Ls account internally. 
Theyve also now added a memo to the account to explain what happened. So, in the 
circumstances, I think this is fair. If however, Mr L does experience any issues in relation to 
this payment at a later date, then he should raise this with Barclaycard in the first instance.
I appreciate this has been a difficult matter for Mr L, but Barclaycard have now reversed all 
the charges and interest accrued as a result of the late payment; ensured the late payment 
has not been reported to credit reference agencies; and in addition, has paid Mr L £125 
compensation. 
And while I appreciate the date of the payment may still show on Barclaycards records, 
Barclaycard have confirmed that this will have no impact on Mr Ls account internally; and I 
havent seen anything to suggest that it has. So while I accept Mr L may be disappointed 
with this outcome, I hope Ive been able to explain why I think Barclaycards decision to 
record the information in this way was not unreasonable. So, for the reasons set out above, I 
wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman