DRN-4115557
The complaint
Mr C complains that BISL Limited (BISL) gave him an incorrect price when renewing his 
motor insurance policy and didnt provide any detail about what caused the error. 
What happened
Mr C received a renewal invite from his broker, BISL, quoting a price of £140.89. Mr C 
accepted this quote and renewed his policy. BISL then contacted Mr C a couple of months 
later and explained there had been an error in the price hed been quoted and refunded him 
£20.41  this was made up of a refund of £20.18 and 23p as 8% interest. Mr C complained 
and said BISL hadnt provided any reason for their error. BISL responded and explained a 
technical issue had occurred when BISL provided the renewal price and theyd issued a 
refund of £20.41 for the overpayment. BISL apologised for any inconvenience caused and 
sent Mr C compensation of £20. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. She agreed BISL had made an error and 
thought the steps theyd taken to put things right was reasonable. Mr C disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr C. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. BISL accept an error was made in the quote provided to Mr C and, to 
correct this, theyve refunded Mr C the overpayment and added 8% simple interest to this 
amount. I think this is fair in the circumstances and puts Mr C back in the position he 
wouldve been in had there not been an issue in the price quoted. The only issue I have to 
decide is whether their offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that BISL should compensate Mr C for the frustration caused. To help decide 
what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by BISL 
and the impact it has had.
I cant say there was any impact on Mr C prior to BISL notifying him of their error  as Mr C 
wasnt aware of any issue at that point. Mr C says he was initially informed there had been 
an error and a refund was credited to his account but no further detail about the error and 
the reason. I can see BISL did then explain the error was down to a technical issue. I 
acknowledge why a customer would want to know more information about an error, 
particularly if that error led to them making an overpayment. So, I think Mr C was caused 
frustration in not initially being given more detail about the error. I think this did though have 
a limited impact as BISL then provided Mr C with the reason behind the error. 
I note Mr C says, had he not complained, then the only steps BISL wouldve taken to put 
things right wouldve been to refund the overpayment. I agree it did take Mr Cs complaint for 
BISL to offer compensation, but I think they took reasonable steps in then acknowledging the 
impact on Mr C and compensating him for this. Given that BISL have refunded Mr C the 
overpayment amount together with interest, and theyve also paid fair and reasonable 
compensation, I think theyve taken reasonable steps to put things right. So, I wont be 
asking them to take any further steps. 
I understand Mr C will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why he was left frustrated at 
not being given a reason for the error initially. But I think the steps BISL have taken to put 
things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I wish to reassure Mr C Ive read and 
considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman