DRN-3867052
The complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank PLC increased his credit card limit even though he had a 
gambling problem.
What happened
Mr D held a credit card with Lloyds, which had a £6,750 credit limit. The limit was increased 
to £7,750 in November 2015, then to £8,250 in August 2016. Mr D said these increases 
shouldnt have been agreed as it was clear he had a gambling problem.
Mr D complained to Lloyds and it responded, in November 2021, to say it had carried out 
appropriate checks. Lloyds said Mr D had passed these checks and hed proactively 
managed his credit card limits. Lloyds didnt think the lending it had given was unaffordable.
Unhappy with this answer, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. An adjudicator looked 
into things and thought Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator thought the 
increase to £7,750 was unaffordable, so Lloyds should refund any interest and charges Mr D 
had incurred on lending over £6,750.
Lloyds didnt agree but said it would accept the adjudicators findings. Lloyds said Mr D 
hadnt exceeded £6,750 on his credit card, so there were no interest or charges to refund.
Mr D said hed been sent numerous texts to show he was nearing, or had exceeded, the 
increased limits. Mr D said although his monthly statement balances were less than £6,750 
his balance fluctuated through the month.
Mr D also said Lloyds own terms and conditions state it might reduce credit card limits if 
large gambling transactions are made. 
Mr D felt the impact of Lloyds decision to increase lending had an impact on his financial 
situation and Lloyds should refund the capital increases not just the interest.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to decide things. Although I broadly agreed with the 
adjudicator, I thought Lloyds there were further credit limit increases which hadnt been 
considered, so I provisionally decided Mr Ds complaint.
My provisional decision
Its clear Mr D was gambling very large amounts of money. In November 2016 theres over 
£10,000 of gambling transactions. Mr D was able to clear his credit card most months.
Lloyds response to the adjudicators assessment was it accepted the outcome, but felt 
gambling was a legitimate activity and wasnt Lloyds place to take a moral stance on it. But 
Lloyds has an obligation to ensure credit limit increases are affordable and responsible.
Lloyds said it caried out checks, and I have no reason to doubt that. But even the most 
cursory check of Mr Ds credit card statements would have shown a significant amount of 
money spent on gambling.
And I think its reasonable to expect Lloyds to check Mr Ds statements before agreeing 
significant credit limit increases. UK Card Associations guidance on credit limit increases 
says one warning sign Lloyds should look out for is frequent use of cash.
Mr Ds gambling transactions were attracting cash fees, so I think Lloyds was on notice that 
it needed to carefully consider any credit limit increases. I think it would have been 
reasonable, as part of that consideration, to look at Mr Ds statements.
I agree with the adjudicator, I think it should have been clear to Lloyds, in November 2015, 
that Mr D had a problem with gambling. I dont think Lloyds should have increased Mr Ds 
credit limit after November 2015.
And this is where I feel the adjudicators assessment should have gone further. Mr D 
reduced his credit limit to £3,000 in October 2016. But Mr D then increased it to £5,000 in 
February 2017, and again to £6,000 in October 2017.
Mr D reduced his credit limit to £1,000 in December 2017, increased it to £1,900 in 
March 2018 and closed the credit card in August 2018.
I dont believe it was fair for Lloyds to agree any increases in Mr Ds credit limit after 
November 2015. And this includes any increases after Mr D reduced his limit.
Because of this, I think Lloyds needs to refund any interest it charged on balances in excess 
of £3,000 between October 2016 and December 2017. And I think it needs to refund any 
interest it charged on balances in excess of £1,000 between December 2017 and the 
closure of the credit card.
Mr D thinks he should be refunded the capital amounts spent on gambling with Lloyds credit 
card. The approach this service generally takes is money borrowed on a credit card is 
repayable, so I dont think it would be fair for Lloyds to write off any of the spending.
As a service we look at every complaint on its individual merits, and each consumers set of 
circumstances is different. Considering everything Mr D and Lloyds has said, I think a refund 
of any interest and charges is a fair resolution for this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds said in an effort to draw things to a close it would agree to refund the interest and 
charges I thought it should.
Mr D said Lloyds should refund any cash advance fees as it shouldnt profit from his 
gambling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Lloyds needs to refund the cash advance fees. The gambling transactions were made prior to any rules stopping gambling transactions on credit cards, so I dont think 
Lloyds should have stopped Mr D gambling on his credit card.
But Lloyds should have stopped Mr D being able to borrow more, after November 2015.
I still dont think Lloyds needs to write off any of the capital amounts spent on Mr Ds credit 
card, and this includes cash advance fees. My final decision is unchanged from my earlier 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ds complaint and Lloyds must
refund any interest and charges applied on balances in excess of £6,750 between 
November 2015 and September 2016
refund any interest and charges applied on balances in excess of £3,000 between 
October 2016 and December 2017
refund any interest and charges applied on balances in excess of £1,000 between 
December 2017 and the closure of the card
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman