DRN-3885554
The complaint
Ms P complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) failed to
clearly explain the medical conditions that may have made her eligible for an enhanced
annuity when she took her pension benefits in 2008.
What happened
Ms P took her pension benefits from Prudential in late 2008 in the form of a standard
annuity.
In September 2020 Prudential wrote to Ms P as they were conducting a review of non-
advised annuity sales. They said the aim was to establish if theyd made Ms P aware, during
the sale of her annuity, that she may be eligible for an enhanced annuity. The letter included
frequently asked questions which highlighted several medical conditions  including blood
pressure requiring medication  that may have made people eligible for an enhanced
annuity.
Ms P responded to Prudential, asking them to review the sale of her annuity and completed
a questionnaire, highlighting that she was being medicated for high blood pressure at the
time of the sale.
Prudential reviewed the sale and concluded that they were satisfied the documentation they
provided Ms P at the time of the sale contained sufficient information about the availability of
enhanced annuities.
Ms P was unhappy with Prudentials review. There were various communications between
Ms P and Prudential in late 2020 and early 2021 during which time Ms P made a complaint
to Prudential. Ms P said she felt misled and let down by Prudential as the health questions
on the original 2008 form differed greatly to those in 2020. She said she wasnt asked about
her health conditions in 2008 which could have increased her annuity.
In response to Ms Ps complaint, Prudential said that their review had concluded Ms P had
been given sufficient information about enhanced annuities when they sold her the annuity in
2008. They went on to say that the documents supplied only provided examples of health
and lifestyle conditions which may qualify for an enhanced annuity, rather than a full list of
potentially qualifying conditions.
Ms P was unhappy with Prudentials response as the 2008 documents only listed three
medical conditions but the review documents in 2020 listed 13 conditions. And one of those
was a medical condition she suffered from in 2008. She also pointed out that Prudential said
that they were able to support Ms Ps complaint when responding to her.
Prudential reiterated their stance that theyd sent Ms P sufficient information regarding
annuities in 2008. But they said theyd made a typing error when they said they were able
to support her complaint as their letter was meant to say they were unable to support her
complaint. They paid Ms P £150 for any distress or inconvenience their typographical error
caused.
Ms P remained unhappy with Prudentials responses and so brought her complaint to our
Service. Ms P said if Prudential had explained that high blood pressure was an eligible 
condition in 2008, she would have followed the matter up with them. But Prudential failed to 
make it clear her condition may have made her eligible for an enhanced annuity, so she 
wasnt given adequate information. 
I sent Ms P and Prudential my provisional decision on this complaint. In it I explained that I 
didnt think Prudential had treated Ms P fairly. I said I didnt think the documents Prudential 
sent Ms P were clear enough that she may be eligible for an enhanced annuity from 
Prudential or another provider. 
Ive copied the findings from my provisional decision below. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
When Prudential contacted Ms P in 2020 they asked her what information she relied upon to
help her choose her annuity in 2008. Ms P selected the option of Documents only.
Im therefore satisfied that Ms P bought her annuity on a non-advised basis. Meaning
Prudential didnt recommend which annuity Ms P should buy. But that meant it was
Prudentials responsibility to provide Ms P with information about her options in a clear way
so that she could make an informed choice.
So, the issue for me to determine here is whether Prudential provided Ms P with enough
clear information about enhanced annuities in 2008 for her to make an informed decision.
My decision is based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
case. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) which Prudential were a member of at the time,
published in July 2008 a Good Practice Guide to Improving customers retirement
experiences. The Guide stressed the importance of providing adequate information to
customers in relation to enhanced annuities, encouraging providers to draw the customers
attention to product features and terms and conditions that may significantly affect benefits.
Under the Guide the provider should In quoting all available options draw the customers
attention in good time to particular options that may be to their advantage. The Guide also
provided a template cover letter for insurers to use in their packs. The suggested wording in
relation to enhanced annuities was:
Do you have a recognised medical condition? Are you a smoker? If so, you may be able to
buy an annuity that pays more because of these factors. They are known as enhanced or
impaired annuities.
The regulator at the time the Financial Services Authority (FSA) also published a fact sheet
entitled Your pension  its your time to choose.
The fact sheet gave some detail on enhanced or impaired life annuities. It said, You may
also be able to benefit from an enhanced annuity or an Impaired life annuity, which pays a
higher income, depending on your state of health or lifestyle.
It went on to explain factors that affect the income customers may receive from their annuity.It said Your health or lifestyle  some companies will pay higher annuities to people who are
overweight, have high cholesterol, are smokers or are in poor health. Your occupation or
where you live might also affect your annuity. It went on to say in a highlighted box; You
may be able to get a higher annuity if your health is poor, if you are a smoker, are
overweight or have followed certain occupations  so shop around!.
There was also a requirement under the conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) to provide
the FSAs factsheet or a written statement that gives materially the same information
(COBS 19.4.1).
Prudential havent said that Ms P was sent the fact sheet in 2008. But they didnt have to. As
long as the information they sent Ms P provided the equivalent information in a clear way.
Prudential sent us a copy of the letter they sent Ms P in 2008. Under the section entitled
Important Information the letter said;
'ENHANCED ANNUITY'
You could qualify for a higher than normal income from an 'enhanced' pension
annuity if:
 Your AVC fund is £20,000 or more, and
 You have a serious medical condition such as cancer, kidney, heart or lung
disease, which will shorten your life expectancy. If you buy a joint-life annuity, we can
take your partner's health into account even if your health is fine.
If you think you are eligible, please tell us. We will then ask you to complete our
medical questionnaire so that we can decide if you qualify for an enhanced income.
In some cases, we may ask your doctor to send us a medical report.
Ms P says the examples given by Prudential were very serious health conditions such as
cancer or heart disease which are clearly life limiting conditions. But she couldnt have
known that a less serious condition like high blood pressure, could have made her eligible
for an enhanced annuity. And Im minded to agree with her.
Prudentials letter put a clear emphasis on the eligibility of an enhanced annuity being
someone with a serious illness. So, I dont think Ms P, with a less serious illness that she
was being treated for, would have necessarily thought that shed be eligible for an enhanced
annuity by reading the letter from Prudential.
While the letter mentioned the open market option, it failed to say that Ms P may be able to
get a higher rate on the open market. Or that other companies may offer enhanced annuities
for other less serious health or lifestyle conditions.
Prudential also sent us the key features document that was likely to have been sent to Ms P
at the time.
So, Ive considered whether that would have given Ms P clearer information to show she
may have been eligible for an enhanced annuity.
Page 6 of the brochure explained that the amount of income Ms P would receive was
dependant on several factors. Amongst other things it said;
Your health  if you have a serious illness you may qualify for an enhanced annuityrate. See Can I get an enhanced annuity rate if I am in poor health for more
information.
Your lifestyle  health related factors such as whether you smoke may also be taken
into account.
This description given of enhanced annuities only refers to having a serious illness. And
although the page mentions lifestyle conditions such as smoking, the information is very
limited. I dont think the wording taken into account clearly gives the information that
someones lifestyle factors could provide them with a higher income. And it doesnt directly
link back to the eligibility of enhanced annuities - it appears to be a distinctly different point.
Even if Ms P had read on to the further information on page 11, I dont think that would have
clarified things for her either.
The information on page 11 under the title Can I get an enhanced annuity rate if I am in poor
health gave examples of people who may qualify for an enhance pension annuity. It said;
You have a serious medical condition such as a stroke, some cancers, diabetes or
disease of the kidney, heart or lung which could shorten your life expectancy.
I dont think someone in Ms Ps circumstances, having read Prudential documentation,
would have spent long thinking about whether she was eligible for an enhanced annuity
when her circumstances didnt seem to fit Prudentials description of an eligible person.
There was also no direct reference in any of the paperwork Ive seen from Prudential that
Ms P may be eligible for an enhance annuity elsewhere. That was a key piece of information
that should have been shared with Ms P. Because even if Prudential didnt offer an
enhanced annuity for less serious health or lifestyle conditions, another provider may have
done.
As Ive said, Prudential didnt have to follow the FSAs fact sheets wording, but they needed
to convey materially the same information in a clear way. And for someone in Ms Ps
circumstances, I dont think they did. She was misled into thinking that, with a less serious
illness, she wasnt potentially eligible for an enhanced annuity.
Ms P says she was taking medication for a health condition at the time of the sale. So, had
Prudential used clearer explanations I think its likely to have caused Ms P to wonder if her
medical condition would have made her eligible for an enhanced annuity either with
Prudential or elsewhere on the open market. And so, on balance, I think its likely she would
have made enquiries to see if she was eligible for an enhanced annuity with Prudential or
elsewhere. Therefore, Im minded to say Prudential must compensate Ms P by establishing if
she could have qualified for a higher annuity rate.
For completeness, I also agree with our investigator that our service is unable to investigate
or comment on Prudentials payment to Ms P of £150 as that solely relates to a
typographical error in their complaint response. And that isnt a regulated activity that this
service has the jurisdiction to investigate.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ms P accepted my provisional decision. She reiterated that she didnt consider that her 
controlled medical condition was in the same category as the serious conditions listed in 
Prudentials paperwork. Prudential disagreed with my provisional decision. They said the FCA had found their 
documentation to be fully compliant with the requirements at the time. They said their 
documents only provided examples of some of the health and lifestyle conditions that could 
qualify for an enhancement. Prudential also sent a call recording from 2008 in which they 
said Ms P confirmed she had looked into the open market option. She was also asked if she 
was in good health and failed to tell them about her high blood pressure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Prudentials latest submission doesnt cause me to change my mind on the 
findings Ive already reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Prudential feel their documentation met the required standard at the time. But 
my role is to look at the individual merits of this complaint and as I explained in my 
provisional decision, Prudentials documentation made Ms P feel that someone in her 
circumstances, with a less serious medical condition, wasnt eligible to qualify for an 
enhanced annuity. So, it treated Ms P unfairly.
The call recording Prudential sent was from a call made after Ms P had received her initial 
quotations from Prudential. It appears from the call Ms P had already read the previous 
quotes which included the documentation I referred to in my provisional decision. But she 
was requesting an additional quote to be sent to her.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think the documented information sent to Ms P didnt 
provide clear enough information to make her think that her medical condition might qualify 
her for an enhanced annuity. But Ive considered whether the information she was given in 
the phone call gave her enough information to make her reconsider her eligibility. 
Regarding the open market option Prudentials call handler explained that the open market 
option allowed Ms P to draw an income from a different provider. But he didnt explain that 
enhanced annuities may be available from those providers or that they may take into 
account different health or lifestyle conditions than Prudential. So, I dont think that 
demonstrates Ms P was aware that she could be eligible for an enhanced annuity on the 
open market. 
The call handler then went on to say;
if yourself or your husband were to have any kind of medical ailment that might 
shorten life expectancy we can sometimes include that on the quote. But are you 
both in good health, ok?
To which Ms P answered;
 At the moment, yes
Prudential say that Ms P had a chance to disclose her high blood pressure during this call. 
And I agree she could have. But as Ive explained, I think its likely Ms P had already made 
up her mind that she didnt qualify for an enhanced annuity because her medical condition 
wasnt as serious as Prudentials documentation suggested it needed to be.
Although Prudentials call handler didnt use the words serious illness as the documentation 
did, I dont think his comments went far enough to alter Ms Ps perception of her eligibility for an enhanced annuity. I say that because the call handler didnt say Ms P was likely to get an 
enhanced annuity or higher income if she had a medical ailment  only that it would be 
included in the quote. So, they didnt do enough to explain why it was important for Ms P to 
disclose her less serious medical condition to see if she was eligible for an enhanced 
annuity. 
Ms P says her condition was medicated and under control at that time. It doesnt appear that 
Ms P considered it a condition that was likely to shorten her life expectancy. So, I can 
understand why Ms P didnt disclose her condition when asked if she was in good health. 
Especially as Prudential didnt explain in the call that health or lifestyle factors could mean 
Ms P received a higher income. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Ms P, in her circumstances at the time of choosing her annuity, 
wasnt provided with clear enough information by Prudential to make her aware of her 
potential to qualify for an enhanced annuity. So, Prudential must now establish if Ms P was 
eligible for an enhanced annuity rate and compensate her for her past and future losses if 
she was. 
Putting things right
Prudential should establish whether Ms P would have qualified for a higher annuity rate via
the open market. If this is the case, Prudential should put Ms P back to the position she
would have been in, had she been provided with the full information as per the relevant
regulatory rules or guidance at the time.
So, Prudential should do the following to put things right:
Past loss
Prudential should calculate the net annuity Ms P would have received from the open
market enhanced annuity rates based on her circumstances. This should be the
same format (any spouses pension, escalation etc) as the existing annuity.
Prudential should compare this with what she is receiving each month. If there is a
loss, it should pay the differences in the amounts each month to the date of
settlement, together with 8% simple interest per year from the date each payment
would have been made to settlement and
Any interest payable should be subject to a deduction for income tax payable.
Future loss
Prudential should rewrite the annuity, increasing payments payable if Ms P qualified
for a higher annuity rate through the open market option. If Prudential cant do this
then they should work out what it would cost Ms P now to buy an annuity equal to the
difference between the income being paid and the correct level of income. This
amount should be paid directly to Ms P.
Where interest is being added at 8% simple per annum, this is likely to be subject to
tax applied by HM Revenue & Customs. If Prudential deducts tax, it should tell Ms P
how much it has taken off. It should also give Ms P a certificate showing this, if
requested by Ms P so they may reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if
appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Ms P the amount as calculated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman