DRN-3266239
The complaint
Miss W has complained about advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal) to transfer a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) she held with her 
former employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Miss W is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Miss W.
What happened
Miss W was introduced to Portal in 2014 after shed been in contact with another business, 
which Ill refer to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative (AR) of a 
regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide 
pension transfer advice. Portal had an established business arrangement with Firm C, 
whereby Portal would provide the pension transfer advice before referring the client back to 
Firm C for investment advice on the transferred funds, and this arrangement was followed 
for Miss W.
At the time of the transfer it was noted that Miss W was aged 56, with bank deposits and 
savings of around £28,000 and she owned her home, which had an interest only mortgage 
of £122,000. Miss W had a preserved final salary pension that was projected to pay a 
pension of £15,067 from age 65. Prior to the transfer it had a Cash Equivalent Transfer 
Value (CETV) of £283,455. And her desired retirement age was noted as 60. She also had a 
pension through her current employer that she was contributing to. 
In May 2015 Portal recommended that Miss W transfer her OPS into a new SIPP. Portal 
carried out a risk-profiling exercise and determined Miss W had a balanced attitude to risk 
and that transferring would meet her objectives. The fact find and suitability report said she 
wanted investment flexibility, noting she wanted tax free cash (TFC) to clear her outstanding 
mortgage, draw income and retire early. She said enhanced death benefits were a 
significant issue, as she wanted her nephews to benefit from these. She said the pension 
plan under review was very important to her retirement. She didnt want to suffer a significant 
loss in pension benefits to achieve flexibility and shed be prepared to risk a 10% reduced 
pension to gain more control of her fund. 
Portal noted a general asset allocation that it believed was suitable for Miss W and that it 
believed this would be invested in, but said the investment advice would be provided to her 
by Firm C.
In July 2014, Miss Ws pension benefits with an updated CETV of £309,402 were transferred 
to the SIPP and just under £114,000 was invested in the following:
Biomass Investments - £21,900
Brisa Investments - £13,100
Lakeview UK Invest - £21,900
Real Estate Invest USA - £21,900
Strategic Residential Developments - £21,900
Tambaba Investments - £13,100
In 2018, with the assistance of a representative, Miss W complained to Portal about the 
advice she received to transfer her OPS benefits, saying that it caused her significant 
financial loss. Portal didnt agree. It said it provided suitable transfer advice that met Miss 
Ws stated objectives. It said Firm C was responsible for any investment advice and it didnt 
know what the current situation was with her investments.
Miss W referred her complaint to our service, adding that shed got in contact with an adviser 
through a comparison website when looking to renew her mortgage and they asked about 
her pension. As she had some dissatisfaction at work, it was of interest to hear about the 
option to drawdown from it if she opted to change employment. The idea of investing in car 
parking and real estate was promoted to her. After the pension transfer, she withdrew a lump 
sum, completed some home renovations and invested in a scheme which had been 
promoted to her. And her mortgage was later repaid from an inheritance. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and said it should be upheld. He said the 
critical yield required to match the benefits being given up of 6.3% demonstrates Miss W 
was likely to be worse off in retirement compared with the discount rate of 4.6% per year for 
eight years until usual retirement age here. He said Miss Ws OPS offered a tax-free lump 
sum in exchange for a reduced yearly pension. And that Portal undervalued her OPS 
benefits, quoting the income shed accrued by 2007, rather than obtaining a current 
valuation which showed the investment returns required to match the pension benefits was 
likely to be higher. The investigator said Miss W should be put back into the position she 
wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice and that Portal should pay her £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Portal didnt agree. It said, in summary, that although taking a tax free lump sum and 
reduced annual pension from her OPS was an option, Miss W wasnt ready to start receiving 
an annual pension and was still working full time. So this wouldnt have been the most tax 
efficient way to receive those funds and it could have pushed her into a higher tax bracket. 
Instead Miss W wanted TFC to pay off her mortgage and have the residual reinvested via 
drawdown until she required a pensionable income. This meant any investment strategy or 
proposal by Firm C would have a minimum of eight years to achieve further growth, which 
could potentially replicate or improve on the growth rate required figure calculated by it. 
Portal said that as Miss W wasnt looking to purchase an annuity at retirement, it relied on 
the hurdle rate as a more accurate means of measuring the scheme benefits. It also said 
Miss W preferred the flexibility of changing her retirement age to later than 65 and was keen 
to gain control of her funds. It added she wanted the enhanced death benefits and to be able 
to access TFC at 56. Portal said Miss Ws investments were recommended by Firm C and 
so it wasnt responsible. It said it gave its advice in knowledge of the likely investment 
strategy Firm C would employ for Miss W. It added that it had undertaken due diligence on 
Firm C and provided a copy of the Compliance Health Check completed in 2012. Firm C 
said it didnt invest client funds in UCIS so Portal said it shouldnt be held responsible given 
Firm C had deviated from this.
Portal added that the regulators alert of 2013 did not apply to Miss Ws case, as it only 
covered instances where the other firm was unregulated. As Firm C was regulated, it said 
Miss W has recourse to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and our 
service. It also believed that the redress methodology was unfair, as it didnt take into 
account that Miss W could claim compensation from the FSCS.So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. I let Portal know Miss W has confirmed 
she made a successful claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 
respect of the UCIS investments made by Firm C, and she received an award of £50,000.
So, I explained to Portal that I think it should compensate Miss W for the entirety of her loss, 
despite her having received compensation from the FSCS. This was because Miss W had 
agreed to repay the compensation she received from the FSCS if she received 
compensation from a third party relating to the same claim. So, Im satisfied that Miss W 
wouldnt be compensated twice for the same loss. 
Portal didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portal advised Miss W to transfer her OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation about the investments held within the SIPP, as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Miss Ws underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portals responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available 
for investment. I believe that as Miss Ws financial adviser, Portal still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved.
Suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given without thinking about the intended 
investment. Portal appeared to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Miss W should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up a 
model portfolio for a balanced investor, which Portal satisfied itself Miss W was. And its 
partly on the basis that Miss W invested in line with a suitable model portfolio and achieved 
the relevant targeted returns that Portal concluded transferring could increase her overall 
pension benefits and could therefore be worthwhile. 
The regulators position 
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portals advice to transfer 
was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought to. At 
the time, the regulator had made clear that it considered in order to suitably advise on 
pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments to 
be held in it. 
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said: 
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () 
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements. 
A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 said: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable. 
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole. 
The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable and amount to conduct that falls well short 
of firms obligations under our Principles for Businesses and Conduct of Business rules. In 
particular, we are reminding firms that they must conduct their business with integrity 
(Principle 1), due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2) and must pay due regard to the 
interests of their customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6). 
Portal says that the 2013 alert was specific to situations where the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. It believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Miss Ws transaction from the 
scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess the 
overall suitability of the proposed investments. While Ive given that possibility careful 
thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances. 
I can see the alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other 
products (such as the SIPP in Miss Ws case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated investments. 
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these standards have broad application to 
pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. And I 
think the 2014 alert makes it clear that this applies to all firms when providing pension switch 
or transfer advice. So, I think these alerts are relevant to firms in the position of Portal in this 
case. 
Portal appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Miss W it wasnt providing 
advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted basis. 
But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the suitability of 
the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. I dont think there 
was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter. 
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portal was subject to. And with reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt be 
able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so. 
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portal also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to Miss 
W under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration of how Miss Ws funds would be invested. 
COBS 9.2 required Portal to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Miss W. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough 
information from Miss W to ensure its recommendation met her objectives, that she could 
bear the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that she had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
COBS 9.2.2R included the following wording: 
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process Portal had to understand Miss Ws objectives and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Miss Ws funds were going to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be 
inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
transfer without knowing what Miss W would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind 
seem reasonably possible. 
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of Portals 
advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with integrity); 2 
(exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers interests and 
treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not misleading way) 
and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the firms 
judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined above, 
Ive considered Portals advice with these in mind. 
As Portal didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets of 
the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs involvement, 
Miss Ws transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated and able 
to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw no issue 
with this. 
I accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portals duty to do the same. As 
Miss Ws appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in her best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Miss Ws funds would be invested. 
Portal has stated that they undertook due diligence on Firm S and provided a copy of the 
Compliance Health Check for Firm S completed by a third party on 12 May 2012. 
Notwithstanding the statement on page 19 that Firm S did not intend to promote UCIS funds 
in the future, this document was over two years old by the time the transfer actually took 
place. So, I dont think it should have been relied on in perpetuity. 
Furthermore, Portal chose to rely on a general statement, given over two years previously, 
that said recommendations of broad categories of investments, with potentially broad gradings of risk, might or might not be made in any given case and that UCIS would not be 
recommended. I dont think that was a reasonable basis on which Portal should have 
assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Miss W. In my opinion, Portal needed to 
understand the nature of the investments envisaged for Miss W specifically, rather than rely 
on a general statement about Firm Cs investment philosophy. 
It is worth noting that Portals own model portfolio included an allocation of 18% of 
Miss Ws assets into Secured Structured Bonds. Im aware these were asset backed debt 
securities, issued for a fixed term with a fixed interest rate. They were not regulated 
collective investments and could only be recommended by authorised and regulated IFAs. 
So, I think Portal was effectively recommending UCIS-like funds as part of its own portfolio 
and it is unclear why it would do so if it did not expect Firm C to make a similar 
recommendation.
Miss W was one of many clients that Firm C referred to Portal for pension transfer advice. 
Portal has indicated that roughly two to three cases a month were intended to be referred to 
it by Firm C over a year. There were multiple dealings with Firm C throughout 2014 and 
2015, during which time Firm C repeatedly invested consumers pensions in UCIS and Portal 
continued to recommend pension transfers where the funds would be invested at Firm Cs 
discretion. Ive not been provided with any information to demonstrate that Portal checked it 
was still Firm Cs position not to recommend UCIS when it was making other enquiries with 
Firm C. I think it was important that this was confirmed. But in any event, as Ive explained 
above, because Portal needed to consider the proposed investment for Miss W  and it 
didnt do this  I dont think it did enough to assess the overall suitability of the advice given 
to Miss W. 
This doesnt mean that Im holding Portal responsible for the failings of another regulated 
firm. Ive focused on Portals own responsibilities as the business involved with the capacity 
to unlock the funds held in Miss Ws OPS. Theres no dispute that Portal gave that advice 
and in my view it incorrectly thought it could limit its advice to the transfer without seeking 
information about the investments Firm C intended and eventually arranged for Miss W. 
It is clear to me that Firm C and Portal had come to an agreement about their working 
relationship. Firm C did not have the required regulatory authorisations to give pension 
transfer advice whereas Portal did, and an agreement to work together for pension release 
clients came about. Portal has stressed it had never before agreed to work with another 
authorised firm, as the processes and controls required to set up the relationship would be 
disproportionate to the level of business it might bring about. However, an exception was 
made for Firm C, as it had proposed to send significant levels of business to Portal. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that Portal needed to do more to ensure that the two 
firms worked together to give suitable pension transfer advice to clients. Aside from the initial 
due diligence checks carried out at the outset of the relationship, I have not seen any 
evidence that further checks were made by Portal to satisfy itself that the pension transfer 
advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment advice they were receiving 
from Firm C. The need to do so was, as I say, a necessary part of the suitability assessment 
carried out by Portal on a case by case basis for individual clients. But it was also, in my 
view, a reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship 
itself, so that any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice could be identified and 
addressed. 
I dont think this required Portal to police the activities of Firm C, but it did require Portal to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that both firms were acting, together, in their clients best 
interests. For Miss W Portal set out in the suitability report what spread of investments it 
thought would be suitable for her, as follows: Cash 10% 
Equities 60% 
Other Fixed Interest 12% 
Secured Structured Bonds 18% 
But with what Ive said above in mind, I dont agree that it was sufficient for Portal simply to 
recommend a broad spread of investments in the expectation that that would bring about the 
necessary alignment with Firm Cs investment recommendations. As things transpired for 
Miss W, and in the absence of any further checks by Portal, the investments she was 
eventually advised to purchase were significantly removed from the investments Portal 
contemplated when it advised her to transfer away from her OPS in the first place.
The reality is that having followed Portals transfer advice, nearly 50% of the funds remaining 
in Miss Ws SIPP (after shed taken tax-free cash and fees were deducted) were invested in 
UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here. It said that as well as 
UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high net 
worth investors), as an example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a client's exposure to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In any case, I dont think UCIS was suitable for 
Miss W at all. Theres nothing to indicate Miss W had the requisite knowledge or experience 
to accept or understand the risks associated with these types of investments. 
In my view, had Portal requested information about the proposed investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest this amount of Miss Ws funds in UCIS, it couldve 
queried this, given how at odds it was with what it determined an appropriate asset allocation 
for Miss W was. For the avoidance of any doubt, had Firm Cs recommendation mirrored 
Portals own model portfolios allocation of 18% of assets into UCIS-like funds, I still think the 
portfolio wouldve been unsuitable for the reasons noted above. I think that had appropriate 
enquiries been made, it wouldve become apparent something was amiss with Firms Cs 
proposal and that the switch was therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Miss W being 
exposed to more risk than Portal considered appropriate.
Overall, I think Portal needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Miss W. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portal to have 
advised Miss W that it couldnt recommend she transfer away from her OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portal had warned Miss W against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Miss W wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with 
the transfer. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portals advice turns 
solely on where Miss Ws funds were ultimately invested. Portals recommendation that she 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portals incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not 
persuaded Miss W wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as she did.
The advice to transfer
OPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance 
(COBS19.1.6) at the time of the advice, stated: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests. 
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. And 
generally, a transfer will only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portals advice, Miss W was 56 years old and employed. She was a standard 
retail investor with four years until she expected to retire and nine years until her full OPS 
benefits became payable. Aside from her state pension entitlement and her pension with her 
current employer, which she hadnt been a member of for long, this OPS represented most 
of her retirement provision. While she had some savings and an ISA, this wasnt significant. 
Although she was a homeowner, she had an outstanding interest only mortgage, seemingly 
with no vehicle or plan in place to repay it. So it seems to me Miss Ws OPS was her most 
valuable asset. It provided a guaranteed income at retirement. And, based on this, I think 
Portal should have recognised the significance of Miss Ws OPS and proceeded with 
caution.
Based on a risk profile Miss W completed, Portal said it believed she had a balanced ATR. 
While this hasnt been challenged by Miss W, she had no investment experience, she was 
only four years from her desired retirement age and therefore didnt have much investment 
time horizon to expose her funds to a medium or balanced level of risk. 
Portals advice was given at a time when the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 
'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past 
pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates 
when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given 
in this case. The discount rate was 4.6% per year for eight years to retirement and 4.1% for 
three years to retirement. For comparison, the regulators assumed future growth rates for 
personal pension illustrations were 2% (low); 5% (intermediate); and 8% (high). 
In terms of the investment risk Miss W would be taking on by transferring, Portal produced a 
Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report. It hasnt given us a copy, but it said in its suitability 
report and accompanying documents that this showed the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS at age 65 was 6.3%. So, the funds transferred needed to consistently 
grow at this rate for Miss W not to be financially worse off by transferring. This was higher 
than the discount rate of 4.6%. So, based on this alone I think Miss W was likely to receive 
benefits of a lower value at retirement if investing in line with her attitude to risk.
 
The TVAS was also based on Miss W retiring at 65, rather than her desired age of 60. So 
Portal didnt consider whether or not it was feasible for Miss W to retire at 60 and how much 
her funds would need to grow by to meet her needs. And I think its likely the SIPP wouldve 
needed to perform better than the 6.3% quoted to match the benefits she was giving up in 
light of the shorter time until her intended retirement age. In which case I think the critical 
yield would have been even higher. I am aware that the TVAS was based on a CETV of £283,455, whereas the final transfer 
value had increased to £309,402 in July 2014. This would likely have the effect of the 
reducing the level of the critical yield needed to match the same benefits, but the 
recommendation was based on the figures at the time and it wasnt known that the value 
would increase. Even with the higher CETV, a critical yield which took account of all charges 
and Miss Ws intended retirement age of 60 would still likely be above the mid-range 
projection of 5% and Portals own estimate of 6.3%. So, Im not persuaded that there was 
any realistic chance of Miss W improving on the benefits being given up.
The guidance under COBS 19.1.3 states that the comparison undertaken by Portal should: 
1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances; 
2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme; 
3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested. 
Portal says the hurdle rate of 4.6% demonstrates that the transfer was financially viable, 
given it projected returns of 6.13%. I recognise Portals model projected returns of 6.13% a 
year before charges, which was closer to the critical yield. But Portal didnt know how Firm C 
was going to be investing Miss Ws funds so I dont think this figure could reasonably be 
relied upon. And, while this figure was higher than the hurdle rate of 4.6%, I dont think it was 
reasonable to base the advice to transfer on the hurdle rate in any event.  
COBS 19.1.7 says: 
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the clients attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
Portals argument for its reliance on the hurdle rate in Miss Ws case ignores the importance 
of the critical yield in demonstrating the value of the benefits being given up and is 
essentially saying that it was suitable to give up a guaranteed income without gaining 
anything, because she could get by without it. 
But using the hurdle rate is not supported by the customers own responses to the risk 
questions, as she stated she would only be prepared to suffer a 10% reduction in pension to 
gain control of her fund and that she could only afford to lose 20% of her fund before it 
affected her standard of living significantly. Neither of these indicate that the consumer was 
happy to give up a secure income in retirement. I am therefore satisfied that it is appropriate 
to use the critical yield to measure the value of the benefits being given up and not the 
hurdle rate. 
A consumer may still have wanted to transfer from an OPS to a personal pension if doing so 
offered opportunities or alternatives which were not available within the ceding scheme and 
fulfilled a genuine need. The Key Financial Objectives on page six of the suitability report 
listed several objectives which would be met by transferring her pension plans to the SIPP. 
But having considered these carefully, I do not believe that any of these objectives justified 
Portals recommendation to transfer.
The suitability report states that Miss Ws wanted to take TFC, seemingly to repay her 
mortgage based on the fact finds completed by Firm C. The appendix goes on to say that 
maximising the amount available to her was a significant benefit. And that she would be prepared to suffer a reduced pension to maximise TFC, provided the reduction was 
reasonable. 
Yet Portal doesnt seem to have explored whether she could take TFC from her OPS and at 
what age. Or whether Miss W had any other means of achieving her objective, and the 
timescales in which she needed to do so, aside from transferring her OPS. 
For example, I cant see that Portal talked to Miss W about the time she had left on her 
interest only mortgage, whether she had other means to repay it or discussed other options 
with her, such as contacting her provider to extend the term if it was nearing the end. 
I can see she could have taken a reduced pension early, from March 2014, with a 
£67,740.67 tax free lump sum from her OPS. This is more than the £67,318 Portal noted in 
its fact find that she could achieve by transferring her pension. I appreciate Miss W achieved 
a bit more than this in reality by transferring due to the increased CETV. But, as Portal was 
basing its recommendation on this objective of accessing TFC, it should have been able to 
demonstrate at the time of the advice why it was necessary to take it early from elsewhere, 
rather than from Miss Ws OPS. And, based on these figures, the best way for Miss W to 
maximise her TFC wouldve been for her to remain in her OPS. I cannot see that this was 
explained to her by Portal.
Portal says Miss W didnt want to take TFC early from her OPS, as that also meant taking an 
income she didnt need and being taxed on it rather than investing it, when transferring 
allowed her to take TFC and invest the rest. But Miss W could have waited until her intended 
retirement age to take her benefits (less than four years away) if she didnt want the income 
at 56. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Miss W needed to repay her mortgage at 
the time of the advice rather than when she retired. This also wouldve most likely meant an 
increased sum being available to her.
In any event, Miss W didnt end up needing the TFC to repay her mortgage, as she used an 
inheritance to do that. I recognise she still took it for home renovations and to make an 
investment, rather than using her savings to do so. But, while it may have been considered 
useful to be able to take TFC earlier for these reasons, theres nothing to suggest these 
were pressing and couldnt have been solved using savings or waited until her intended 
retirement age if she didnt want the income straightaway. 
Miss Ws told us it was of interest to hear about the option to drawdown from her pension if 
she opted to change her employment. And I appreciate the suitability report also says that 
being able to draw flexibly from 56 onwards would be a useful benefit to Miss W. But I note 
she considered it useful, rather than a significant objective. And, as explained above, her 
answers to the risk questions dont support that she was happy to give up a secure income 
in retirement. And Im not persuaded she would have transferred for this still, and given up a 
guaranteed income from her OPS, if shed known she could take TFC from it. 
The suitability report also said enhanced death benefits were a significant priority for Miss W, 
as she wanted to provide for her beneficiaries with the best possible survivors pensions 
should she predecease them in retirement. 
I agree that transferring did provide a higher lump sum death benefit for Miss Ws 
beneficiaries at the outset, but in my view, this didnt outweigh the loss of guaranteed income 
in retirement while she was living. While I can appreciate Miss W may have wanted to pass 
on as much money as possible to her beneficiaries in the event of her death, Im conscious 
that the main purpose of a pension is to provide an income in retirement. Other 
considerations, like death benefits, are secondary, particularly where there was nothing to 
suggest Miss W was in ill health, such that it wasnt expected that her pension fund would 
need to support her for a long time. Furthermore, I wouldve expected the adviser to explore the possibility of taking out life assurance if providing a legacy for her family was genuinely 
important to her. 
It was noted in the suitability report that Miss W would prefer to have ownership and 
personal control of her pension benefits, but this reason by itself isnt sufficient justification to 
recommend the transfer. Miss W had no recorded investment experience and its unclear 
why she wanted personal control over her funds, when she would be relying on a third 
party, Firm C, for investment advice. 
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portal covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portal 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer at all.
Ive thought about whether, if shed been correctly advised by Portal not to transfer, 
Miss W would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe she would have. Theres nothing to suggest that 
she was seriously considering transferring out of her OPS prior to speaking with Portal. 
Instead Miss Ws said she was referred to it after being asked about her pensions when she 
was looking to renew her mortgage. So she wasnt proactively seeking transfer advice. 
Had she been appropriately advised, I think its more likely that Miss W would have chosen 
to stay with her OPS. As a professional adviser which, unlike Firm C, was authorised to 
provide transfer advice, Portals recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and 
could, I believe, have dissuaded Miss W from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent 
investments. I accept its possible Miss W may still have wanted to go ahead anyway to 
access TFC but, for the reasons Ive given above, I think thats very unlikely. 
Is Portal wholly responsible for Miss Ws loss?
I recognise it can be argued Firm C is also liable to Miss W and that in turn I should 
apportion only part of the responsibility to Portal. Having given this careful thought though, in 
the circumstances, I think it is fair to find Portal wholly responsible and, in turn, to direct it to 
compensate Miss W for the whole of her loss.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portal were in a business relationship in 
which each agreed to provide services designed to bring about a single outcome for clients  
pension transfer advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt authorised to provide 
pension transfer advice, it referred Miss W to Portal. Portal advised Miss W to transfer her 
benefits to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for her OPS benefits to be transferred to 
this. I acknowledge Firm C advised Miss W to invest a significant share of her SIPP funds in 
UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portals understanding that it could reasonably limit its advice 
to just the transfer and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed investments 
too, even if Firm C was advising Miss W on them. It was only as a result of Portals 
involvement that Miss W transferred the funds held in her OPS to the SIPP. Portals role was 
pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being transferred over 
first; if that hadnt happened, she couldnt have invested as she did. In any event, and as I 
say, it is clear that Firm C and Portal had agreed to enter a business relationship together 
which was designed to bring about the very outcome thats caused Miss Ws loss.
Portal argues that Firm C is responsible for the investment advice and so Miss W
should avail herself of any compensation she may be entitled to by making a claim to the 
FSCS. It also says that the amount of any award made against Portal should be limited by 
taking that payment into account. In ordinary circumstances, as the FSCS describes itself as 
a fund of last resort, it is my understanding that it is unlikely it will pay out on claims where it 
is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and where it considers there is a reasonable prospect of the consumer making a recovery against that firm for the loss 
suffered.
Nonetheless, whether to postpone payment of compensation (to enable the consumer to
recover compensation from a third party) is a matter entirely for the FSCS.
In this case, it seems the FSCS decided to award Miss W £50,000 before the
determination of Miss Ws complaint with this service. In those circumstances, Im aware that 
as a condition of accepting compensation from the FSCS, Miss W was asked to give to the 
FSCS an assignment of her rights to make a claim against third parties. This would have 
enabled the FSCS to make a claim in recovery of that compensation against those third 
parties and the PI insurer of Firm C.
It follows that for Miss W to make a complaint to this service about Portal, she needed to ask 
the FSCS for a re-assignment of those rights. I can see Miss W has now obtained that which 
contains, as a condition, the following requirement:
The Claimant agrees that in respect of the Reassigned Rights the proceeds of the claim 
shall first be applied to repay an amount equal to the Compensation Sum to FSCS together 
with interest on the Compensation Sum from the date of receipt of the proceeds by the 
Claimant to the date of payment by the Claimant to FSCS at a daily rate equivalent to the 
Bank of England base rate from time to time (subject to a minimum rate of 0.1%), such 
payment to be made to FSCS within 14 days of receipt. The payment to FSCS shall be 
made after the deduction from the proceeds of the Claimant's reasonable legal costs 
incurred in pursuing a claim in respect of the Reassigned Rights.
Portal may argue that because Miss W has already recovered £50,000 from the FSCS, it 
should not have to account to her for that portion of her loss. However, as per the
reassignment of rights agreement Miss W entered into with the FSCS, I can see she has 
agreed to repay the compensation she received from the FSCS if she receives 
compensation from a third party relating to the same claim.
From this, I think that:
1. There is no real risk of Miss W benefiting from double recovery, as shes 
contractually required to pay back to FSCS the full amount of the compensation it 
paid to her; and
2. I have seen nothing to suggest Miss W is unlikely to comply with that requirement in 
accordance with the deed of reassignment;
3. If I didnt direct Portal to pay compensation to Miss W for the full amount of her loss 
(in circumstances where I have determined it is responsible for 100% of that loss), 
she would nonetheless still be required to account to FSCS from the compensation 
she receives from Portal and would, in turn, be left out of pocket.
All in all, I maintain my view that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Portal to pay 
Miss W compensation for the full amount of her loss.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss W, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Miss W 
would have remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Ws acceptance of the decision. 
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Miss 
Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Ws 
SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Miss W within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Miss W. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
In addition, Portal should pay Miss W £300 for the disruption to her retirement planning. 
My aim is to return Miss W to the position she wouldve been in but for the actions of Portal. 
This is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on 
the open market) as their value cant be determined, which appears to be the case here. 
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted. 
In return for this, Portal may ask Miss W to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Portal will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Miss W to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking. The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Miss W wish to move her investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be 
prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this 
might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is something that Miss W can 
discuss with her SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pay Miss W an upfront lump sum equivalent 
to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Miss W 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Miss W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Miss W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Miss W the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Miss W. 
If Miss W accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Portal Financial Services 
LLP. My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial Services LLP.
Further, its unlikely that Miss W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Miss W may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay compensation 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman