DRN-3541654
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc failed to credit 20 
cheques worth a total of £6,226 to Bs account.
Mrs R, who is a trustee of B, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs R told us:
Most of Bs funds come from an event it runs annually. B receives cheques from the 
event, which its trustees used to bank at their local branch of Barclays. After that 
branch closed, they began using their local Post Office instead.
In August 2021 the events treasurer took cheques to the Post Office to pay in to Bs 
account. Most of the cheques went through without problems, but one batch  worth 
a total of £6,226  did not reach Bs account.
Under the terms of the annual event, half the money B receives is paid out to other 
organisations. In November 2021 B therefore issued credits worth £3,113 to other 
parties.
B discovered that the money was missing in January 2022, when one of Bs 
sponsors asked why their cheques had not been cashed.
B complained to Barclays, and discovered that an error had occurred at the clearing 
house. The cheques were received by the Post Office and sent to the clearing house 
for processing, but for some unknown reason the deposits were reversed.
Barclays did not act immediately when B drew the matter to its attention. If it had 
done so, the cheques might have been found  and at that point they would not have 
been out of date, and could have been processed.
To resolve the complaint, B and its trustees consider that Barclays should pay B 
£6,226. B should not suffer financially as a result of Barclays mistakes, nor should it 
be required to put Barclays errors right.
Barclays told us:
It has traced the deposit, and accepts that the 20 cheques to the value of £6,226 did 
reach the clearing house for processing. The deposit was then reversed by a 
member of staff at the clearing house. It has not been able to establish why that 
action was taken, and can only conclude that a processing error was made by the 
clearing house.
It has been unable to locate the physical cheques, and it therefore asked B to source 
replacement payments either by cheque or by bank transfer. It appreciates this will 
cause additional work and inconvenience for the trustees, and it is sorry for that.
It would like to offer £400 compensation to recognise the processing error and the 
time it will take B to source replacement payments. It has provided copy cheques to 
help B identify the remitters, and it is also willing to provide a letter confirming that the 
error was caused by the bank and was in no way the fault of B.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. He thought Barclays offer was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. He acknowledged that Mrs R wanted Barclays to pay 
£6,226, but given that the cheques werent processed and the funds never left the remitters 
accounts, he didnt think it would be fair to ask Barclays to pay that amount. He also thought 
that a payment of £400 for inconvenience was fair.
Mrs R did not accept our investigators findings. She explained that it would be difficult for B 
and its trustees to obtain replacement cheques, and so far they have not sought to do so. B 
does not have contact details for all of the donors. In addition, the task would take 
considerable time and B has no paid staff; all those involved are volunteers. Those 
volunteers have already spent a considerable amount of time trying to put things right.
Mrs R also told us that the situation was explained in Bs annual report, but that did not elicit 
any response. Over a year later, it would now be even more difficult to go back to the donors 
and ask for replacement cheques. They might have moved away, be reluctant to re-issue the 
cheque in this climate of high inflation, or even have died.
Overall, she considers that Barclays clients should not be expected to have known that 
something had gone wrong, and they should not be expected to put Barclays errors right.
The parties could not reach agreement, so the matter was referred to me as an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said.
Its clear that B and its trustees were not in any way at fault for the fact the cheques were not 
processed. It isnt possible for me to establish exactly what happened at the clearing house, 
but there is no way that B or its trustees could have done anything to cause the error. I am 
satisfied that the error was entirely the fault of Barclays. If Barclays had done what it should 
have done, the 20 cheques would have been processed correctly and £6,226 would have 
reached Bs account.
However, that does not automatically mean it would be fair for me to order Barclays to pay B 
£6,226. So far as possible, my aim here is to put B into the position it would have been in if 
Barclays had made no errors. But if I simply award £6,226, it is possible that some of the 
remitters will replace the cheques  and B would then be significantly better off than it would 
have been if Barclays had made no error. 
When considering compensation, I need to think about whether there is anything B could 
have done to reduce the impact of Barclays mistake. I also need to carefully consider the 
circumstances to decide what impact flows from the original error.Here, I acknowledge Mrs Rs point that Barclays could have acted more quickly when she 
first told the bank about the error. That is true. But I think it is also true that Bs trustees could 
have taken steps to reduce the financial impact on the charity. I accept that it might have 
been difficult, or perhaps impossible, to trace all the donors. It would certainly have caused 
the trustees inconvenience to trace the donors, and might also have been embarrassing. But 
I think Bs representatives should have made some attempt to obtain replacement cheques, 
over and above noting the issue in Bs annual report. 
I dont know what would have happened if Bs trustees had tried to obtain replacement 
cheques. I think its likely that at least some of the remitters could have been traced  and in 
particular it is likely B could have traced the remitter who first brought this matter to their 
attention. If Bs trustees had tried to obtain replacement cheques, they might then have been 
able to demonstrate that Barclays error had caused the charity to suffer a financial loss. But 
having considered the matter carefully, I do not have sufficient evidence to be satisfied that 
Barclays error caused B to suffer a loss of £6,226 (or indeed that Barclays error caused a 
financial loss of any other amount). The money the donors intended to pay to B remains in 
the donors bank accounts, and might still be paid over to B if Bs trustees were to ask for it.
However, I do think Barclays should pay compensation for the inconvenience it caused to 
the charity. I recognise that B is a small charity, and any work done to try to recover the 
money will be done by volunteers. In the overall circumstances, I think Barclays offer to pay 
£400 for the inconvenience it has caused is fair.
Barclays has also offered to provide B with a letter explaining that the reason the 20 
cheques were not credited to Bs account was entirely due to an error on the banks part, 
and further confirming that B and its trustees were not in any way responsible. If Barclays 
had not already made that offer, I would still have ordered it to provide such a letter. 
Barclays should ensure that B can demonstrate to its donors that the mistake here was the 
banks fault.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay B £400 to compensate it for the inconvenience it has 
suffered, and provide a letter as described above.
My final decision
My final decision is that the compensation Barclays Bank UK Plc has already offered is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay B 
£400, and provide B with a letter explaining that B was not responsible for the mistake.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman