DRN-2679666
The complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited failed to exercise due forbearance or assist 
him when he faced financial difficulties. 
What happened
In September 2016 Mr S entered into a conditional sale agreement for the acquisition of a 
new car. The monthly sums payable were £152.82 over 60 months with the total due of 
£9016.38. Mr S was made redundant in 2018 and he missed his July payment. He told 
Moneybarn about his situation and it put his account on hold for a month and asked him to 
contact it at the end of August. Its records do not show that Mr S made contact. Mr S says 
he contacted Moneybarn on several occasions. 
On 1 October 2018 Mr S paid £70 and agreed a payment plan of £100 to clear the arrears. 
No direct debit was set up due to Mr S changing banks. Moneybarn says it received no 
further payments and so it issued a default notice on 8 November. 
On 29 November Moneybarn was told that Mr S was starting a new job and it asked for proof 
of income and details of income and expenditure so it could set up a payment plan. Mr Ss 
brother became involved at this point and was given authorisation. Mr S says his brother had 
several conversations with Moneybarn around this time. His work took him out of the country 
so he wasnt always able to speak to Moneybarn. 
As no subsequent payments were made Moneybarn issued a termination notice on 12 
February 2019. Mr Ss brother contacted Moneybarn and the termination was put on hold 
and later in February he paid £154. This was followed by a payment of £160 on 25 March, 
and a plan was set up for Mr S to pay £200 a month. Mr S has explained that due to his 
brother being out of the country his ability to make the payments was restricted. One 
payment was made and Moneybarn issued a payment plan failure letter and then a default 
notice on 17 June. It terminated the agreement in July 2019 and it took out court 
proceedings.
Mr S told Moneybarn he wished to continue with the £200 payment plan and it asked for 
proof of income, an income and expenditure schedule, payment of £450 to cover arrears and 
for the car to be insured. Mr S disagreed and the matter went to court. Mr S has said that he 
wasnt given sufficient time to find £450 and to insure the car. He had other debts which 
needed to be addressed. The court said:
The parties are encouraged to explore settlement as per emailed correspondence dated 
18th September 2019 2) It is recorded that at the next hearing, if settlement doesn't occur, it 
is less likely (in light of the order below) that another adjournment will be granted (albeit that 
may be determined by another Judge who may take a different view) It is ordered that: 1) 
This matter is adjourned until 21st of November 2019 at 11:00 (and the Defendant should 
attend, if not orders may be made in his absence. If there are difficulties with attending then 
these must be made known to the Court Office at the earliest opportunity and the Defendant 
may wish to show his employer this Court Order)
On 5 October 2019 Moneybarn said that Mr S could keep the car under a consent order if he 
supplied proof of earnings, a completed an income and expenditure schedule and if he made 
an initial payment of £300.00 against the arrears. It also required that the car be insured. It 
said that if that was found to be affordable, the consent Order payments would be £200.00 a 
month. This was in line with what Mr S wished to pay. Mr S says that he wasnt given 
enough time to raise the funds. He has also pointed out that the car was kept in a secure 
garage and didnt need to be insured. 
The car was repossessed and sold leaving Mr S owing £5,103.66. However, Moneybarn 
wrote to Mr S on 15 May 2020 to say it would accept 50% of this sum if paid by 15 June and 
it would show his account as settled by partial payment. 
Moneybarn rejected his complaint so Mr S brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said 
Moneybarn was required to show due forbearance in its handling of Mr S and he believed it 
had done so. Once the matter reached court he considered Moneybarn had sought to reach 
an agreement, but this had not been possible. He explained that Moneybarns actions in 
pursuing the debt once a court judgement was issued was not a regulated activity and so it 
fell outside our remit. Nor could he consider invoices issued by Mr S to Moneybarn as they 
were not part of the credit agreement. 
Mr S didnt agree and Moneybarn had not acted fairly. He said that more than 50% of the 
sum due had been paid and Moneybarn had pushed the matter to court regardless of this. It 
had avoided correspondence and had not made realistic offers. It hadnt given details of the 
sale of the car which was sold at undervalue and with unnecessary costs attached. He also 
referenced a judgment made against Moneybarn for not treating customers fairly or 
exercising appropriate forbearance. He also referenced a court decision against Moneybarn 
for its failure to support struggling borrowers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr S, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Firstly, I would address the case taken against Moneybarn by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). My remit is to consider the facts of each individual complaint and reach a 
decision based on those facts. This is what I have done in this matter. However, I would 
point out that the issues that caused the FCA to take action arose well before the matter 
complained about by Mr S. Indeed, by that time changes overseen by the FCA had been 
introduced by Moneybarn to address the concerns about its handling of customers in 
financial difficulties.
I can see that Mr S has had a challenging time and he has been struggling financially and 
personally. I have reviewed his evidence and that of Moneybarn including very lengthy 
contemporaneous records. I can see that it has sought to support Mr S on a number of 
occasions by setting up several payment plans and these have broken down. 
Mr Ss challenges first arose in the summer of 2018 and it was over a year before the car 
was repossessed. I consider Moneybarn offered a number of opportunities to Mr S in order 
to allow him to keep the car and to pay off his debt. I gather he found new employment but 
refused to provide details to Moneybarn so it could be satisfied that any payment plan it 
offered at that stage was affordable. In order for Moneybarn to provide the support that Mr S was seeking it needed to be able to 
engage with him on a constructive basis, but I fear that this has not happened. I can see that 
Mr Ss brother sought to assist and he made several payments, but due to his frequent 
travelling his availability was limited. Those payments petered out and in due course 
Moneybarn took what I consider to be reasonable steps to recover its asset, the car. 
It took legal action and after the court asked both parties it put forward a means of resolving 
the matter. Moneybarn wrote to Mr S as follows:
The account has been terminated and the arrears are currently at the equivalent of 
approximately eleven months unpaid. The offer of a Consent Order that was made on 15 
October 2019 is still available to you. All we require is proof of income for the last two 
months and a completed income and expenditure form. If affordability is shown, the Vehicle 
is insured fully comprehensive with excess of no greater than 500.00, and a payment is 
made of 300.00 by 22 October 2019 then I will draft Consent Order papers so that you 
may retain the Vehicle. The Consent Order payments would then be 200.00 per month, 
from the end of November, which would mean that your payment schedule would run 
beyond the original term that you signed for.
Mr S didnt consider this a reasonable response even though I gather he was willing to pay 
£200 a month. I consider the offer to be fair and I believe it is regrettable that Mr S took a 
different view. As no agreement could be reached the court awarded possession of the car 
to Moneybarn and it sold it, presumably at auction as it was entitled to do.
For completeness I would add that I agree with out investigator that the post court judgment 
actions and Mr Ss invoices to Moneybarn are not matters that fall within out remit.  
While I do not consider this complaint should be upheld, I would remind Moneybarn of its 
obligation to treat Mr S positively and sympathetically in helping him resolve his financial 
difficulties
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman