DRN-3252306
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way American International Group UK Limited handled his claim.
What happened
Mr G held two policies with American International Group UK Limited (AIG)  a Family 
Accident plan and a Disabling Injuries plan.
In 2010, Mr G was involved in an accident at work. An item of construction equipment landed 
on him, trapping him by the legs for up to 30 minutes.
Mr G was hospitalised and had surgery to repair a deep laceration to his lower right leg.
Despite treatment, Mr G continued to report on-going symptoms which affected his ability to 
return to work. Surgery to his right lower leg had left him with reduced muscle and he 
complains of pain and numbness in his thighs. He hasnt felt able to return to work since the 
accident.  
Mr G submitted a claim to AIG. His claim for hospitalisation benefit was accepted.  His claim 
for the loss of use of his legs was not. AIG, based on the medical evidence provided to it, 
assessed Mr Gs loss of use of his right leg at 25% of the benefit available within the policy. 
It wasnt satisfied the pain in his left leg was caused by the accident.
Mr G remains unhappy. He believes hes entitled to the benefit for 100% loss of use of his 
legs. He also believes he will not be able to work again so wants AIG to also honour the any 
work benefit in his policy.
Hes also unhappy with the delay in settling his claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. In her opinion, 
AIG has considered the claim in line with the medical evidence available to it.  And she didnt 
agree AIG had caused unnecessary delay, despite the length of time thats passed since the 
accident. 
As part of her review, our investigator noted Mr G had made a complaint to AIG in 2017 but 
because the complaint wasnt referred to this Service in time, it wasnt something she was 
able to consider.
AIG accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr G did not. The complaint has therefore been 
passed to me for a fresh review of the evidence and for my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the obligations placed on AIG by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably reject a claim.  Ive 
also reviewed the terms and conditions of the policies Mr G holds with AIG, as these form 
the basis of the contract entered into by the parties.
A lot of medical information has been provided to me, all of which Ive considered in 
determining the outcome of this complaint. I wont comment on everything Ive seen, only 
those matters which I think are most relevant to the outcome Ive reached. Thats not meant 
as a discourtesy but in line with my role to determine what I think is the fair and reasonable 
outcome, based on the circumstances.
And based on everything Ive seen I agree with our investigator and for the same reasons.  
Let me explain.
Any work benefit
Mr Gs Family Accident Policy includes benefit in the circumstances that an accidental injury 
permanently prevents Mr G from returning to work.  The terms of the policy say:
Scope of Insurance
If an insured person has an Accident after the Commencement date and suffers 
Bodily Injury which alone and within 24 months of the date of the Accident causes 
death, disabilities (specifically mentioned in the Table of Benefits) or requires 
Hospital in-patient treatment, we will pay the amount shown in the Table of Benefits 
as indicated by the Benefit Level shown on your schedule
The relevant definitions within the policy are as follows:
Bodily Injury  means physical damage caused by an Accident.
Loss (in relation to limbs, fingers, or toes) means permanent severance or permanent 
and total loss of use of an entire hand, arm, foot, leg, finger, or toe.
Any work benefit  means the benefit which will be paid if Bodily Injury disables you 
to such an extent that you are permanently prevented from doing any paid work 
whatsoever for the remainder of your life
Both parties accept Mr G suffered a bodily injury in the accident, but Ive not seen anything 
that persuades me Mr G is permanently prevented from doing any paid work whatsoever 
for the remainder of his life. Ive seen evidence from several specialists, none of whom say 
that Mr G cannot do any work of any type for the remainder of his life.
The specialists agree Mr G has been prevented from returning to his occupation as at the 
time of the accident, but all agree a less physically demanding role would be suitable for him.
I appreciate Mr G believes he has suffered permanent damage to his legs but thats not the 
same as damage preventing him from undertaking any paid work, forever.
Loss of, or loss of use of limb(s)
Both policies provided by AIG include benefit for the loss of, or loss of use of limb(s).
AIG sought expert advice about the percentage loss of use of Mr Gs right leg because of the 
accident. It approached Mr Gs treating doctors and independent specialists to help 
determine the impact of the accident on him. But having the percentage loss quantified 
proved challenging. None of Mr Gs own doctors answered AIGs questions on this point. An independent specialist appointed by AIG initially said a 25% loss of use but then later 
reduced that figure as he couldnt be certain the cause of Mr Gs on-going pain was solely 
related to the accident. He thought Mr Gs on-going pain may be related to degenerative 
conditions in his spine and hip.
A second independent specialist considered Mr Gs on-going problems were not solely 
attributable to the accident.
Because it proved so difficult to establish the percentage loss of use, AIG sought a further 
assessment by another independent specialist. This specialist recommended AIG accept the 
original percentage (of 25%) for his right leg only.
I understand Mr G disagrees but in the absence of any further evidence to support an 
increased level of benefit, I think AIG has acted reasonably and has offered to settle Mr Gs 
claim in line with the medical opinions available.
Claim delay
I understand Mr G is unhappy with the time thats elapsed since his accident. But based on 
everything Ive seen I dont think I can fairly hold AIG wholly responsible.
Mr G was seen by multiple specialists following his accident. His appointments spanned 
several years. I can see AIG often had to chase specialists for updates on Mr Gs condition 
and importantly, his prognosis. When it became clear the information it needed wasnt going 
to be available, it approached independent experts for their views. 
And when it tried to settle Mr Gs claim, Mr G disagreed and wanted to provide further 
information. I think AIG could have settled the claim earlier than it did, but given the 
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to allow Mr G time to present further 
evidence. I appreciate Mr G hoped to provide information that might persuade AIG to look 
more favourably on his claim, but that also ultimately led to delays in concluding matters. 
In its final response letter of July 2020, AIG acknowledged it could have been more proactive 
and offered Mr G £750.00 by way of compensation. I think thats a fair offer recognising the 
circumstances of this complaint.
2017 complaint
In 2017 Mr G made a complaint to AIG about its handling of his claim.  As our investigator 
explained, this isnt a complaint this Service can consider.
This Service can only consider complaints brought to us within specific timescales. These 
timescales are set out in the FCA Handbook under DISP Dispute Resolution: Complaints.
DISP 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication: or
(2) more than:
a. six years after the event complaint of; or (if later)
b. three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint
There are exceptions to those rules. One exception  DISP 2.8.2 (3) - allows the 
Ombudsman to consider a complaint where:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
AIG issued its summary complaint response to Mr G on 2 August 2017, giving referral rights 
to this Service. That means Mr G needed to refer his complaint by 2 February 2018. He 
didnt contact this Service until July 2020.
Ive not seen anything that would show exceptional circumstances prevented Mr G from 
getting in touch with us sooner; I can see he was engaging with AIG during this period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking American 
International Group to do any more.
If it hasnt already done so, it should pay Mr G the £750.00 compensation referred to in its 
letter to him of July 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman