DRN-2794987
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr B and Ms Os mortgage with Barclays Bank UK Plc. The core of 
the complaint is that theyre unhappy that Barclays wouldnt agree a shortfall sale to a family 
member at a price that it considered was below market value. Mr B and Ms O are 
represented here by Mr C.
What happened
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex, and the file runs to 
some 1,800 pages of documents. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of 
the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There is also a lot of 
duplication and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised 
events in rather less detail than has been presented, using my own words and rounding 
some of the figures involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr B and Ms O when my 
decision is published.
Mr B and Ms O had been in difficulties with their mortgage payments for a while, and in 
2017, Barclays obtained (but did not enforce) a possession order in court. Mr B and Ms Os 
situation didnt improve and in 2019, a family member offered to buy the mortgaged property 
from them (whilst allowing them to continue living in it). The initial proposed price was 
£140,000, which was significantly less than the outstanding mortgage. Barclays said no 
because it had a valuation on file saying the property was worth £195,000.
Another valuation was carried out, valuing the property at £145,000; the offer was increased 
to £145,000 but the proposal was still rejected, at a very senior level, as Barclays wasnt 
satisfied with Mr B and Ms Os reported income and expenditure information. This was 
relevant to paying off the remaining shortfall. The complaint was referred to us.
Our investigator thought Barclays position was broadly fair; but he thought the dispute might 
still be resolvable if the parties re-engaged more pro-actively with each other than before. He 
recommended Barclays commission a further valuation; if that new valuation was at or close 
to £145,000, he said Barclays should agree the shortfall sale. Otherwise, he said Barclays 
would not be required to agree the shortfall sale. Lastly, the investigator said Barclays 
should pay Mr B and Ms O £200 compensation for their time trouble, and upset.
Both parties accepted the investigators recommendation, but implementing it proved 
troublesome. The £200 was paid in July 2020, but both parties seemed to think it was up to 
the other to begin the new dialogue. When that problem was eventually overcome, a fresh 
dispute arose over who should carry out the new valuation. Mr C said it should be the same 
valuer who had carried out the recent valuation at £145,000, but Barclays insisted on 
instructing a new firm.
Eventually, in November 2020, the firm instructed by Barclays carried out the new valuation, 
and it came in at £195,000. Barclays said it would not consider the shortfall sale proposal 
any further. There then followed a great deal of argument back and forth, lasting many 
months until, in March 2021, Mr C asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Here, Mr B and Ms O are 
consumers, and so each meet the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr C is 
bringing the complaint on Mr B and Ms Os behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mr C represents Mr B and Ms O, it is they who are 
Barclays customers. Its Mr Cs role is to bring the complaint for them, in the same way that 
other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mr C to air his own grievances about Barclays, because he is not its 
customer; his role is limited to putting forward Mr B and Ms Os complaint.
Nor is Mr C in any way entitled to direct members of this service in the way we investigate 
the complaint. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we 
investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. I make this point because its apparent to me that despite the 
investigator having explained our impartiality more than once, Mr C has repeatedly 
attempted to specify the enquiries that he considers I must make. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, Im not here to do Mr Cs bidding. Its for me to decide when 
I have enough information and evidence to determine a complaint, and its for me to decide 
how much weight I should attach to the evidence I do have. We reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr B and Ms O have been for so long here, 
its a natural subjective reaction to want to have someone pursue every individual issue with 
vigour. But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that 
means stepping back from the fine detail and taking an overview. 
My starting point here is that both parties agreed to be bound by the investigators 
recommendations in July 2020. Strictly speaking, that means that those recommendations 
arent in dispute, and I dont need to make any findings on them. However, for completeness 
and good order, I confirm that I consider the settlement our investigator proposed to be a 
sensible, pragmatic and (most importantly) fair solution to what had become a very protracted dispute between two parties with very entrenched positions. What is left for me to 
determine is what has happened since the parties accepted the settlement.
The level of compensation isnt an issue; the £200 was accepted and paid last year. The 
delay in the resumption of dialogue is an issue, but not one that I consider warrants a further 
award of redress. I say that because, having looked at what the parties said and did in the 
weeks after accepting the investigators settlement proposal, responsibility for the delay in 
resumption of dialogue has to be shared in pretty much equal measure. 
It should have been apparent to both sides that they had to behave differently from how they 
had done before; if nothing else, to be more conciliatory and pragmatic in trying, if not to find 
common ground, then at least reduce the gap between them. But neither party did anything 
different; each waited for the other to make the first move and blamed the other for not doing 
so until our intervention broke the impasse. 
I now turn my attention to how the rest of the investigators recommendation was 
implemented; its important to remember that his proposed settlement didnt require Barclays 
to accept the shortfall there and then; it was contingent on the outcome of the new valuation. 
The new valuation, and the outcome of it, are the very crux of this complaint. 
Lenders arent experts in property, so when they need to know how much a property is 
worth, they seek the professional opinion of someone who is expert. They have a duty to 
appoint someone who is suitably-qualified to give that opinion; and provided they do that, 
lenders can rely on the opinion they receive. Lenders typically meet that duty by instructing a 
Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) to assess a property and 
value it for mortgage purposes. Also, its for lenders to decide who they instruct; Barclays 
was perfectly within its rights to refuse Mr Cs direction on which surveyor to appoint to carry 
out the new valuation.
The valuation carried out in November 2020 was conducted by an RICS-qualified surveyor. 
Part of Mr Cs argument in challenging the validity of that valuation is that Barclays had 
commissioned another before that, which had come in at £145,000, and was now 
conveniently ignoring it. Also, two local estate agents had written letters saying they thought 
the property was worth £145,000. He argues that this makes the November 2020 valuation 
of £195,000 an outlier. Ive given that a lot of thought, and Im afraid I dont agree.
Mr C has provided copies of the letters from the estate agents who said the property was 
worth £145,000. Ive no reason to doubt the experience and local knowledge of these 
individuals, but having searched the RICSs register, I havent find that either is recorded as 
having an RICS qualification. That being so, I dont attach the same weight to them as a 
valuation from an RICS-qualified surveyor; more importantly, I dont find that Barclays 
needed to.
Also, there werent just two valuations from RICS-qualified surveyors; there were three. 
Barclays already had a valuation on file when it was first approached about the shortfall; that 
was for £195,000. Put all of that together and it seems me that out of the three valuations 
from RICS-qualified surveyors, the middle one that Mr C favours is the outlier.
But in any event, all of that is moot; by accepting the investigators proposed settlement, 
both parties agreed to abide by the outcome of a new valuation, and not by any of those that 
had gone before. The new valuation was £195,000, and Im satisfied that as result of it, 
Barclays is not required to give any further consideration to the shortfall sale proposal of a 
purchase price of £145,000.Mr B and Ms O dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they doesnt, then neither they 
nor Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Mr B and Ms Os right to take legal action against Barclays 
over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of 
it. They wouldnt necessarily have to initiate court proceedings of their own to do that. 
In the event Barclays were to resume possession proceedings, Mr B and Ms O (or Mr C on 
their behalf) could, if they wish, ask the court to consider all of the arguments theyve 
presented here as part of their defence. There would then be an opportunity for the court to 
decide whether, in all those circumstances, it would be fair to give possession of the 
mortgaged property to Barclays.
I make one last point. Just recently, Mr C told us Barclays had contacted Mr B and Ms O 
directly about something, instead of going through him. Ive not dealt with that here, as Ive 
no power to do so. If they wish to, Mr B and Ms O could instruct Mr C to complain afresh to 
the bank about that contact, and refer the complaint to us afterwards, if theyre not happy 
with the response they receive.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman