DRN-3126646
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way EUI trading as Admiral has handled a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy following a burglary at his home. 
All reference to EUI in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ws home was broken into in April 2021 and he made a claim to his insurer, EUI. EUI 
instructed a Loss Adjuster (LA) to handle the claim.
Mr W complained to EUI in June 2021. He was unhappy with the way his claim was being 
handled by the LA. He said when the LA visited his home, Mr W was reluctant to let him in 
as he had concerns about the lack of safe guards in place by the LA due to Covid 19 
concerns. He said the LA offered for Mr W to go into his garden while the LA assessed how 
the burglary occurred, which he was very unhappy about. 
Mr W was unhappy with the communication from the LA as he felt they had been sarcastic 
and unhelpful. He though it unreasonable for EUI to require proof of ownership for the stolen 
items Mr W was claiming for. He said he could only provide proof by way of bank and credit 
card statements going back to 2014. He said it would cost him around £1,000 to obtain as he 
cant remember exactly when he bought the items. He didnt think any reasonable consumer 
would hold receipts or proof of purchase going back that far. 
EUI didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it couldnt comment on what was discussed 
between the LA and Mr W during the visit as they didnt witness it. But it found no concerns 
with the communication between the LA and Mr W in the email exchanges. EUI said it had 
asked Mr W for proof of purchase in order to validate his claim. It explained that the policy 
doesnt provide cover for the costs to provide this  and so EUI said it had acted reasonably. 
Mr W didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought EUI had acted in 
a fair way and in line with the policy. 
Mr W didnt agree. He says he cannot afford the costs to reproduce credit card and bank 
statements to evidence he bought the stolen items being claimed for. So the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy with EUI says it; may request further information to support [the] claim. This 
includes, but isnt limited to, original purchase receipts, valuations, or details of the date and 
place of purchase.
The policy says that if the requested information isnt provided, EUI can either reduce the 
settlement amount or not pay the claim at all. And EUI say it wont cover; Indirect loss, 
which is defined in the policy terms as any losses not directly associated with the incident 
that caused the claim including any costs of preparing [the] claim, fees, travel costs, loss of 
earnings and compensation.
So I think the policy clearly sets out what EUI will and will not cover when a claim is made. 
I understand Mr W is of the view that if EUI rejects his claim for lack of proof of purchase, it 
must therefore mean it believes his claim is fraudulent. I dont think thats true. In any claim, 
the onus is on the policyholder to prove their loss. Its not for us to say what is a reasonable 
period of time for a customer to keep proof of purchase. I understand Mr W says he bought 
the items over the years in different ways and from different bank and credit card accounts. 
But I dont think its unreasonable for EUI to ask for evidence of ownership. Without this, it 
cannot validate his claim. In EUIs email to Mr W dated 22 April 2021 it said where there was 
no proof of purchase available, it asked Mr W to send other evidence such as photos of the 
stolen items and boxes or manuals for them. So I dont think EUI has treated Mr W unfairly. I 
think its treated him as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. 
Mr W feels EUI should have asked him for more information before arranging for the LA to 
visit his home. Mr W said the LA asked to look around his home, which he was unhappy 
about  due to concerns about Covid 19 and in light of being recently burgled. Mr W says the 
LA told Mr W he could wait outside. 
Mr W said he didnt feel comfortable about the LA being in the property with him. And he 
said although the LA wore a face mask, he wasnt wearing gloves and so didnt have full 
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) including gloves. 
Mr W says the LA should have arranged a video tour instead of a home visit. He said he 
hadnt been vaccinated but was in contact with other family members and was concerned 
about the risk of Covid 19. 
I dont think EUIs response to Mr Ws complaint about the LAs visit was unreasonable  as 
it said it couldnt confirm what was discussed between the LA and Mr W. I think it was 
reasonable for Mr W to have raised any issues he had about a home visit and the potential 
impact on him and his family at the time when it was arranged  so that EUI could have 
considered his concerns. 
However, in any event I understand Mr W didnt agree to the agents suggestion that he wait 
outside, so Mr W provided a video tour later the same day. So, I dont think Mr W was 
disadvantaged or that his claim was delayed by the events that happened that day. 
I havent seen anything to show Mr W received a poor service from EUI or the LA. While I 
understand he was unhappy with the replies the LA gave in relation to requiring proof of 
payment of the stolen items, I dont think the replies were rude or sarcastic. 
Overall I dont think EUI has acted unreasonably. I realise Mr W will be disappointed. But this 
means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman