DRN-3593086
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse the funds he lost when he fell victim 
to an investment scam.
Background
Mr J has explained he was looking to make a small investment and came across a company 
online which had good reviews. Mr J made a card payment of around £250 on the 
understanding this was going towards his investment.
The following day, Mr J received contact from an individual purporting to be an investment 
broker  unbeknown to Mr J at the time, this individual was in fact a fraudster. The fraudster 
advised Mr J that if he wished to make any meaningful profits, he recommended Mr J invest 
further funds. On this advice, Mr J made a further payment by card for £250.
The fraudster led Mr J to believe his investment was profiting and so, encouraged by this, Mr 
J decided to invest further. Mr J tried to make two further small card payments through a 
cryptocurrency platform, but these were unsuccessful. Mr J therefore set up an account with 
a different cryptocurrency investment platform and made a faster payment to it through his 
online banking. He said that a warning came up when making the payment, so he decided to 
send £250 initially, but when this payment went through successfully, he made a subsequent 
transfer of £3,470. 
Mr J attempted to make a withdrawal from his account and when this was unsuccessful, he 
became suspicious. Mr J contacted HSBC, who raised a fraud claim on his behalf.
Mr J was reimbursed the initial card payment he made shortly after raising the claim. HSBC 
acknowledged it hadnt been clear about the outcome of his second card payment disputed, 
so agreed to refund this and award £100 compensation to acknowledge the error. However, 
HSBC declined Mr Js claim to reimburse the two faster payments hed made. It said the 
payments Mr J made fell outside of the scope of the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(the CRM Code), so all it could do was make the receiving bank aware of the fraudulent 
payments and ask that any outstanding funds are returned. HSBC contacted the beneficiary 
account provider the same day as Mr Js claim was made but unfortunately, no funds 
remained.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr J brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think the faster payments Mr J made 
were so unusual for his account that HSBC ought to have intervened before allowing them to 
be processed. She was also satisfied that once HSBC was made aware of the scam, it took 
reasonable steps to recover Mr Js funds.
Mr J disagreed. In summary, he said:
The payments were unusual for his account. Other large payment transfers referred 
to by the investigator were to his wife, an existing payee. In addition, the payment of 
£3,470 was significantly more than these transfers.
When calling HSBC to raise a fraud claim, he had to wait for over an hour before they 
answered. He was also given incorrect and conflicting information by HSBC when 
trying to contact the cryptocurrency platform directly.
Mr J had never made payments outside of the UK until this scam arose. Had he 
known payments were going abroad, he would not have proceeded.
As Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me for 
a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should HSBC have 
recognised Mr Js payments as being suspicious and intervened to try and mitigate the risk 
of him falling victim to financial harm from fraud.  Having considered whether HSBC could, or 
should, have done more to stop Mr J making the payments he did, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably ask HSBC to take responsibility to refund the money Mr J has lost. I can 
understand this will be a very disappointing outcome for Mr J so I will explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Mr J accepts he willingly made the 
faster payments himself. This means that at the time he sent the money, he authorised the 
payments and wanted them to be made. Although he did not intend for the money to go to a 
fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 which apply to the payments he 
made, and the general terms and conditions of bank accounts, Mr J is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
HSBC should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. HSBC 
did not identify either of the transfers Mr J made as being suspicious at the time he was 
making them. Ive looked carefully at Mr Js current account statements for the 12 months in 
the lead up to when the scam began to get a clear understanding of how his accounts 
typically ran. Having done so, I can see that while this was one of the larger transactions 
made in this period, there were some card transactions of higher value on the statements (the highest of over £8,000 being only around a week before the scam took place) and also 
a number of bank transfers of around £1,000 to £2,000 (albeit to existing payees). 
The fraudulent transfers also didnt leave less money in Mr Js account than was usually 
available to him. Its also worth noting that the fraudulent transfers Mr J made were to a 
genuine cryptocurrency platform  not directly to a fraudulent site or company that might 
have been easier for HSBC to detect as part of a scam. Ive also thought about the 
unsuccessful payments Mr J had attempted prior to the transfers and whether this should 
have prompted intervention by HSBC  but Im not persuaded it should. These payments 
were also being made to a genuine cryptocurrency platform and Mr J has explained they 
were low value  so while its not clear why they were unsuccessful, I dont think they posed 
a higher fraud risk that ought to have put HSBC on alert prior to the fraudulent transfers 
taking place.
Mr J has raised that payments made went to a non-UK bank, and that he wouldnt have 
proceeded had he known. However Mr J is aware of the platform his payments were going 
to - and it wasnt this platform that scammed him. It also appears from the account details 
provided that it was a UK based account that received his funds, although it may have an 
international presence.
Overall, I cant fairly conclude the payments were unusual or out of character and I dont 
think HSBC missed a clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. In these 
circumstances I wouldnt expect HSBC to take any further action or have a conversation with 
Mr J before processing the payments. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any 
concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. For this reason, I dont 
consider its reasonable to expect HSBC to ask questions about payments that arent 
unusual or out of character. 
As I dont think HSBC acted incorrectly by processing the payments, Ive gone on to 
consider whether it should have refunded Mr J for any other reason. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which HSBC has 
signed up to. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a 
customer who is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if 
the CRM code applies in the circumstances for any of the payments Mr J made and, in 
particular, whether HSBC ought to reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. 
But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only 
covers APP scam payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not 
to a consumers own account. In this case, Mr J sent the money to his own account held with 
a cryptocurrency platform, which he had access to and control over. This means I dont think 
HSBC is responsible for reimbursing Mr J because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
I understand Mr J is unhappy he had to wait for around an hour to speak to a member of the 
HSBC fraud team when raising his claim. While I appreciate this must have been stressful 
and frustrating, overall I think the timescales in which HSBC reacted were reasonable  
contacting the cryptocurrency platform the same day to make it aware of the claim. While the 
cryptocurrency platform made some unusual requests following the claim being raised, 
HSBC provided all the information I would consider necessary in order for the cryptocurrency 
platform to act, so I dont think HSBCs actions caused any loss on Mr Js part.
I have considerable sympathy for what has happened here to Mr J  and its not in question 
that hes been the victim of a scam. But overall, I dont think HSBC treated Mr J unfairly when it concluded that it was not responsible for refunding the money hed lost. For the 
reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that HSBC doesnt have any obligation to refund any 
of the money Mr J lost under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which 
I could say that HSBC should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for Mr Js loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman