DRN-3275381
The complaint
Miss I complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc claimed loan payments and sent arrears letters 
despite a payment holiday being agreed.
What happened
Miss I has a personal loan with Sainsburys. She contacted them in or around June 2020 as 
her income had been impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. Sainsburys agreed to 
provide a payment holiday for three months between June and August 2020. 
In July 2020, Miss I noticed Sainsburys had claimed a loan repayment from her bank, 
causing her account to go overdrawn. She didnt think this was right. So, she called 
Sainsburys to complain. Sainsburys investigated Miss Ss complaint and agreed theyd 
made a mistake. They paid £179.93 into Miss Is loan account to clear the arrears and paid 
her £150 by way of an apology.
In or around September 2020, Sainsburys agreed to provide a further payment holiday for 
three months between October and December 2020. But in November 2020, they claimed a 
loan repayment from Miss Is bank account. Miss I contacted her bank to arrange an 
indemnity claim for the money Sainsburys had claimed. Miss I then contacted Sainsburys 
again to complain. Sainsburys investigated Miss Is complaint and again agreed theyd 
made a mistake. They paid a further £100 to Miss I, by way of an apology.
Miss I continued to receive arrears letters from Sainsburys for the missed November 
payment. So, in or around March 2021, she complained to Sainsburys again. Sainsburys 
agreed theyd made a mistake. They paid £179.93 into Miss Is loan account and said they 
didnt expect this to be repaid. They arranged to update her credit file to remove any adverse 
information reported in respect of their mistake. Sainsburys paid Miss I a further £150 by 
way of an apology.
Miss I wasnt happy with Sainsburys continued mistakes. So, she referred her complaint to 
this service. One of our adjudicators investigated Miss Is complaint. Our adjudicator agreed 
that Sainsburys had made mistakes. But didnt think they needed to do any more than they 
had to resolve matters.
Miss I didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. She wanted Sainsburys to explain why 
the mistakes happened. She wanted them to pay a further £200 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. She also wanted them to provide a further three-month payment 
holiday.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Is complaint(s) has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing, or 
reasonably expect to experience, temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
Sainsburys agreed two three-month payment deferrals for Miss I, which appears to comply 
with the guidance issued by the FCA. Unfortunately, despite these agreements, Sainsburys 
claimed payments in July 2020 and November 2020 when they shouldnt have. Sainsburys 
have agreed this was an error on their part. While a clear explanation hasnt been provided, 
Sainsburys notes suggest their mistake was due to computer keying errors.
Sainsburys accepted they made mistakes and apologised in writing to Miss I for this. And I 
think that was the right thing to do here.  But they also sent arrears letters to Miss I in 
respect of the payments missed. I do understand how these letters would be distressing for 
Miss I. Particularly given the agreements in place and her personal circumstances at the 
time. Whilst unfortunate, these letters are commonly computer generated. So, given 
Sainsburys mistake, I can understand why this might happen. 
Sainsburys have further apologised to Miss I, in writing and also ensured her personal credit 
file is not impacted. 
Miss I seeks additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Sainsburys repeated mistakes. Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as 
reasonable by one party may not be considered so by another. I do believe Miss I 
experienced some distress and inconvenience here. 
Sainsburys have paid a total of £400 to Miss I to reflect this. From their notes, it also 
appears they credited £179.93 on two occasions into Miss Is loan account to clear the 
arrears. Theyve said they dont expect Miss I to repay this, so it appears shes received a 
total benefit of £759.86. Theyve also ensured that any additional interest Miss I may have 
incurred is refunded to her loan.
Using financial services wont always be totally hassle free and any award needs to be 
balanced against the normal nuisances of everyday life. So just because Sainsburys made 
a mistake, it doesnt necessarily follow compensation should always be paid. Here, 
Sainsburys made repeated mistakes which caused Miss I to contact them on multiple 
occasions to resolve things. So, I think Sainsburys were right to pay compensation.
But I think the amounts already paid feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that 
Miss I doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise 
Sainsburys for their mistakes. Any award is considered based upon the impact Sainsburys 
mistake had upon Miss I. And I think Sainsburys have done that here. I do appreciate that 
Miss I will be disappointed, but I shant be asking Sainsburys to pay anything more to her.
As regards a further three-month payment holiday, Sainsburys have already complied with 
the FCAs guidance in providing payment holidays totalling six months. Any further payment 
holiday would be a business decision for Sainsburys. So, its not something this service 
would be able to insist upon. In the event that Miss I continues to experience any form of 
financial difficulty, I would recommend she speak with Sainsburys to establish what 
additional support they can provide. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Is complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman