DRN-3717283
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lendable Ltd (Lendable) are holding him liable for a loan which he 
says was not taken out by him. He said he was the victim of a scam, and the scammer took 
out this loan. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I will not go into every 
detail of what happened here. But, in summary, in September 2020 a £7,000 loan was taken 
out in Mr Ns name and sent to his current account. Mr M said this loan was taken out by a 
scammer who committed identity fraud. 
Mr N said that he met someone online who claimed to be a professional business 
development advisor, who Ill call Mr W. He told us he met Mr W several times, but also that 
he only ever dealt with him over the phone. Mr W promised to help Mr N develop a business. 
He said he could help warm up his bank account to help him be accepted for a loan to help 
with this. Mr W said he would send Mr N some money as part of this process. Mr W got Mr N 
to sign a contract and share his personal details with him including his banking details. He 
said not to open his online banking account for a few days because this would slow down 
the process. Mr N said this is when the money from the loan with Lendable went into his 
account  but he thought the money was Mr Ws money. There were payments out of the 
account, which left Mr N in possession of £700 of the £7,000 loan. The other bank said that 
the payments out of his account from the £7,000 loan did appear to be done on his device, 
or certainly one that had also sent funds to someone in his family. 
Another £50,000 bounce back loan went into a business account in Mr Ns name. He 
disputed this with the lender and they wrote off the loan as they thought this had been part of 
a scam, and they thought Mr N was vulnerable to scams. 
Mr N has unfortunately not been able to provide any documentary evidence to corroborate 
his account, such as the messages he shared with Mr W. he explained this is because he 
got a new phone and so no longer has the records he had at the time. Mr N said he is neuro-
diverse and struggles with his mental health and epilepsy. He said this impacts his memory,  
decision making and means he is easily trusting. It impacts his ability to understand 
processes and what is right and wrong. He said this whole matter had taken a significant toll 
on his mental health. His 18+ care-worker confirmed he is very trusting and if something is 
explained clearly to Mr N he will not question it. 
Mr N complained to Lendable on the grounds that the loan was taken out as part of an 
identity fraud. When Lendable reviewed what happened they declined to write off the loan. 
They said they had not been provided with any evidence to corroborate what Mr N told them 
about the scam and Mr W. 
Unhappy with this, Mr N came to our service. Mr N has also said that he wants to raise that 
in the event he is held liable for the loan, he thinks that Lendable should not have given him 
the loan as it was unaffordable and he was only 18 at the time. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened, and did not recommend Mr Ns account be upheld. They said 
they could not ask Lendable to write off the loan when the loan was obtained as the result of 
third-party involvement or identity fraud. They said the loan was applied for using Mr Ns 
personal details and sent to his own account. They also thought there were no clear 
concerns around affordability, as Lendable had submitted that the relevant checks had been 
done. 
Mr N was unhappy with this. After our investigator issued their opinion on this case the bank 
he holds the current account this loan went into agreed to refund the £6,300 that was sent 
on without accepting responsibility, but on the grounds of Mr Ns vulnerabilities. He said he 
was willing to repay this to Lendable but he could not afford to remaining amount. They said 
they were willing to write off the rest, but Mr N was not accepting of this as they said it would 
still appear on his credit file. Our investigator said this was fair in the circumstances. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to say I was sorry to read of the difficult circumstances Mr N is in. I know the 
stress of this situation across the different financial businesses has been very difficult for 
him. 
But having reviewed the available evidence, I have come to the same conclusion as our 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I am sorry as I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr N. I cannot say for sure what happened here, and I think there likely 
has been an element of a scam somewhere across all of these loans and transfers. But I do 
not think the evidence supports that the scam happened in the way that Mr N told us, and I 
think that Lendable are entitled to hold him liable for the loan given the lack of certainty 
around third party involvement in the taking out of the loan. I say this because: 
Mr N has not been able to provide any documentary evidence of the existence of Mr 
W or the role he played in the two loans and the transfers from the two bank 
accounts which were held by Mr N. 
Mr Ns description of how the scam unfolded does not appear to be consistent or 
logical. I do appreciate that time has passed and Mr N has been struggling with his 
mental health and recollection of events. But it does sound unusual that he would 
hand over all of his details including online banking and other personal information to 
an unknown third party in order to warm up his bank account. It is not even entirely 
clear what the process was supposed to do. Or why he had to pass over those 
details. It is also unclear why he would not be able to login to his online banking 
whilst the process was ongoing. 
This is not to say this is not what happened, and I am certainly not accusing Mr N of 
lying. But thinking about Lendables responsibility for the loan here, I think it is hard to 
say that they should write off a loan when there remain so many valid question marks 
over what happened here. There is nothing in the evidence which corroborates Mr 
Ns testimony about the scam and how it unfolded. 
Without any corroborative evidence it is hard to know exactly what happened here 
and what Mr N thought was happening here. And, if the scam unfolded in the way 
that Mr N said it did, it would seem strange that Mr W left him with £700 of the funds 
when he could have maximized his profits by emptying Mr Ns accounts. 
The other bank suggested that a payment was made on the same device that was 
used to send the payments on from the £7,000 loan to a relative of Mr Ns, so this 
suggests the transactions may have happened on his device. 
I dont think there were any circumstances presented that ought to have led Lendable 
to believe that the loan was being applied for as a result of a scam. The details 
entered into the loan application appeared to be accurate, and the loan proceeds were paid into an account in Mr Ns name. 
Mr N has argued that they should not have given a loan to someone of his age, but 
there is nothing to say that loans or credit cannot be offered to someone who is 
eighteen years of age provided they meet the eligibility criteria. 
Lendable were not aware of Mr Ns vulnerabilities at the time the loan was taken out 
so I am not persuaded that they would have been aware of any reason he may be 
more vulnerable to fraud or financial harm, such that they ought to have carried out 
further checks or spoken to him before approving the loan. 
I appreciate the other lender has subsequently decided to write off the other loan. But 
that does not mean that Lendable are obliged to do the same. And based on what I 
have seen I do not think they have active unfairly by refusing to do so. 
So, having considered all of this, I think it is fair and reasonable that Lendable declined to 
write off the loan for Mr N. Mr N has argued that it was unaffordable lending  and Lendable 
have submitted that they completed all of the relevant checks before approving the 
application. But, if Mr N would like to pursue this further I recommend that he speaks to 
Lendable directly about this matter so that they can investigate this fully before our service 
can consider it. 
Mr N has offered to send the £6,300 he has been reimbursed by the other business to 
Lendable on the condition that the loan is written off without any information recorded on his 
credit file. Lendable have accepted the offer, but say that the information will appear on the 
credit file. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  he had some benefit of 
the loan in the form of the £700, and I have found no faults in Lendable holding him liable for 
the loan, so Lendable have to make sure this is reported to the relevant credit reference 
agencies, particularly as it appears he can no longer repay the £700 that he had the benefit 
of.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr N and I am sorry to read about everything he 
has been going though. But I am not persuaded that Lendable have acted unreasonably 
here, so I wont be asking them to take further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman