DRN-2849045
The complaint
Mr S complains about Nationwide Building Society closing his accounts, and the customer 
service hes received.
What happened
There is extensive background to this complaint, and our investigator explained the issues 
we were investigating in detail. So, in my decision Ill only summarise those issues, and Ill 
focus on what I think is material to the outcome of the complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mr S concerns Nationwide addressed in its final responses 
issued between August 2019 and January 2020. In summary, Mr S is unhappy with the 
following:
Mr S isnt happy that Nationwide doesnt resolve his concerns straight away, and his 
complaints are investigated by a complaint-handling team. He doesnt think 
Nationwide addresses all the points he raises, and hes not happy Nationwide 
doesnt call him back at requested times. Overall, Mr S doesnt think Nationwide 
follows the complaint-handling rules set by the regulator.
Mr S is unhappy that staff members in branch dont always verify his identity. Hes 
also unhappy with issues with tablets in branch, how hes been treated by branch 
staff, and that the branch has opened late on occasions.
Customer service hes received on the phone from the credit card team on various 
occasions.
That Nationwide first decided to close his accounts because hed made too many 
complaints. Following this, hes unhappy Nationwide closed his account early, and 
how this couldve put him in hardship had he not had an account with another bank.
Overall, Mr S doesnt think Nationwide has treated him fairly.
Our investigator looked into these issues in detail. Firstly, she explained that complaint-
handling itself isnt a regulated activity, so that wasnt something wed looked into in 
isolation. Our investigator found the following:
Nationwide apologised when it didnt log Mr S complaint in a timely way, and it put 
things right within a few weeks.
Nationwide hadnt checked Mr S up to date phone number when it promised a call 
back, and it paid £75 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Nationwide gave a satisfactory explanation that there were separate tablets for 
customer and staff use in branch, and that customer tablets were later removed due 
to a security risk. Nationwide had also given options how Mr S could complete his 
transfers.
Nationwide apologised for placing Mr S on hold and paid £50 in compensation for not 
calling him back as promised.
On another complaint, Mr S had been put on hold by Nationwide for two minutes at a 
time, which wasnt unreasonable.
There was nothing to suggest that Mr S data was compromised when he wasnt 
verified by branch staff.
Nationwide had given feedback to staff members where appropriate.
When Mr S was given incorrect information about the timing of a transaction, this was 
corrected later in the call, and Nationwide apologised for this.
Nationwides complaint department wasnt open during the times Mr S wanted to be 
called, so it wasnt unreasonable that it corresponded with Mr S in writing.
When Mr S challenged Nationwide that he hadnt behaved inappropriately towards 
branch staff, Nationwide acted reasonably in verifying this by talking to those staff 
members.
Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong by having Mr S complaints investigated by a 
specific team as it was concerned the relationship had broken down.
Nationwide apologised for not starting to process a Subject Access Request Mr S 
made, but it put things back on track and paid £20 in compensation.
Nationwide spoke with branch staff about Mr S behaviour, and it closed his accounts 
in line with the relevant terms and conditions.
Overall, our investigator didnt think there was anything further Nationwide needed to do. 
This was because where it had made a mistake, it had put things right by getting things back 
on track, apologising, or by paying compensation. Our investigator also thought Nationwide 
had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr S accounts when it closed them. 
Overall, she didnt think Nationwide had treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr S wasnt happy with our investigators initial findings when she only addressed the issue 
of account closure. He said she hadnt considered all the issues hed raised. Following this, 
our investigator looked into the above issues in detail. Mr S didnt give any further comments 
to these findings. But as no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator did, and for 
similar reasons.Our service investigates individual complaints  were not the regulator of the industry. And 
where a business has made a mistake, well ask the business to put things right. I 
understand Mr S doesnt think Nationwide has paid him enough compensation for the 
complaints he made about poor customer service. But we make awards based on the impact 
any mistake by the business had on the consumer. 
Having considered all the information here, I cant see that anything that Nationwide has 
done wrong has caused Mr S any significant distress or inconvenience  rather, I can see 
that hes been upset when, for example, Nationwide has given him wrong information. But in 
these situations, I think putting things back on track has been the right thing to do, or 
perhaps even an apology. Where Nationwide has paid Mr S some compensation, I think 
these amounts fairly reflect any unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S in 
the circumstances.
As our investigator explained, Nationwides complaint-handling in general isnt something 
our service can look into in isolation. But having looked through its complaint-handling in 
relation to the complaints Mr S has raised, I cant see that its done anything wrong. This is 
because it looks like Mr S expects Nationwide to resolve his concerns quicker than its 
required to by the rules set by the regulator. And if Nationwide wasnt following those rules, 
he couldve asked our service to look into his complaints earlier.
Mr S can only be contacted during hours outside of the complaint-handling departments 
normal working hours. So, I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong by 
communicating with him in writing  for example, I havent seen anything to suggest Mr S 
needed any reasonable adjustments.
Its not for our service to decide if a business has breached data protection laws  thats the 
role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But if a business hasnt followed the 
relevant law, I can look into the impact that caused. I cant see that anythings gone wrong 
when Nationwide hasnt verified Mr S identity in branch. For example, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Nationwide shared Mr S details with a third party. 
Im satisfied Nationwides given reasonable explanations to the other issues Mr S 
experienced in branch. And in any event, its not for our service to tell a business how it 
should operate, how it trains its staff or what services and products it should offer  we can 
only investigate if somethings gone wrong, and the impact that had. And I cant see that 
theres been any significant impact to Mr S due to the issues hes raised here.
I can see there were instances when everything didnt go right when Mr S spoke to 
Nationwide over the phone. But Im satisfied it put things right  for example by correcting 
the incorrect information given, putting things back on track, apologising and paying 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.
Nationwide told Mr S several times that it felt the relationship had broken down irretrievably. 
The terms and conditions of Mr S accounts allow Nationwide to close them by giving two 
months written notice. And thats what Nationwide did in November 2019. But Nationwide 
also said itd be happy to discuss this with Mr S to see if they could continue the relationship 
in a more positive way. Overall, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong here.The terms and conditions also allow Nationwide to close Mr S accounts immediately and 
without notice in exceptional circumstances  including threatening and abusive behaviour 
towards Nationwides staff. I can see Nationwide spoke with several members of branch staff 
when it made the decision to close Mr S accounts in line with the relevant terms and 
conditions. And it had previously asked Mr S to refrain from using unacceptable language 
and behaviour. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I can also see that Mr S had another account he could use, so he wasnt left 
without access to any funds.
Taking everything into account, I dont think theres anything else Nationwide needs to do, to 
put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman