DRN-2630355
The complaint
 Ms S complains about the time it took Barclays Bank UK PLC to investigate her fraud claim 
and provide her with a refund. She says this caused her financial and emotional distress and 
would like Barclays to pay her £18,000 compensation.
What happened
 In November 2019, Ms S opened a current account in branch. A few days later she 
transferred a large amount of money from a third-party bank account in her name, to her 
Barclays account. The next day, Ms S went into her local Barclays branch to open a savings 
account where she could transfer the money to.
During the branch visit, Ms S became aware that an unauthorised third party had used the 
card and PIN which had been sent to her, but she hadnt yet received, to withdraw £300. 
While she was discussing this with the member of staff in branch, her card and PIN were 
used again to make a transaction of £9,470.00 in a high street store.
Ms S disputed the transactions and Barclays raised a fraud dispute. 
Barclays told Ms S they would need to investigate the fraud claims which Ms S wasnt happy 
about. She explained that she hadnt yet received the card or PIN so it couldnt have been 
her. Barclays provided Ms S with a temporary credit for the £300 withdrawal; but not the 
£9,470 transaction. Ms S couldnt understand why they would give her a credit for one 
transaction and not the other  Barclays explained it was discretionary.
Ms S was due to travel to another country at the end of November 2019 to visit her daughter. 
She says she couldnt complete this trip due to the money which had been taken from her 
account  so she lost out on the money shed spent on booking the trip. And she says her 
and her husband were also planning to visit her son in another country but they couldnt do 
this because of the fraudulent transactions. Ms S says this situation caused her a lot of 
financial and emotional distress. 
On 14 December 2019, Barclays had to refer the dispute of £9,470 to their complexity team. 
They updated Ms S to let her know that she should receive a decision within 20 working 
days. 
On 2 January 2020, Barclays upheld the fraud claims, and Ms S received a refund of the 
£9,470. As Ms S had already received a temporary credit for the £300 dispute, she wasnt 
refunded any further. Barclays didnt pay Ms S any compensation as they said they followed 
their processes and hadnt made an error.
Ms S remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. She said that temporary credits were 
offered on a case by case basis and as she didnt think Barclays had made an error, she 
wasnt going to ask them to do anything differently.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision. In it I said;
Barclays agreed Ms S didnt carry out the disputed transactions  so I havent considered 
this as part of my review. Ive only considered whether I think Barclays did enough when 
handling Ms Ss dispute.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). PSR 2017 say in section 76 that the payment service provider (in this case 
Barclays) must provide a refund as soon as practicable, and no later than the end of the next 
business day from when it becomes aware of the unauthorised transaction.
Im pleased to see when Ms S raised the £300 dispute, Barclays decided to issue a 
temporary credit to Ms Ss account. I consider this was appropriate and in line with the 
PSRs. However, Ive also thought about Barclays actions with regards to the £9,470 
dispute. Barclays didnt issue Ms S with a temporary credit, and therefore Ms S had to wait 
until 2 January 2020 until she received this money back. 
Ms S has explained how being without this sum of money affected her  in particular shes 
mentioned not completing a trip she had booked to see her daughter. While I dont doubt this 
would have been an extremely worrying time for Ms S, I cant fairly agree her not visiting her 
daughter is the fault of Barclays. I say that because, while I recognise Ms S was without the 
£9,470, she still had a significant amount of money left in her account. And because of that, I 
cant reasonably agree that she couldnt afford to go on the trip. Ms S has also told us she 
found out about the disputed transactions when she went into branch to transfer the money 
from her current account to her savings account. This leads me to believe that the money 
would have been transferred to a savings account and not used for her trip.
I do, however, think its unfair that Ms S was without this money for such a long period of 
time  around six weeks or so. I appreciate Barclays have processes in place to review fraud 
disputes such as the one Ms S raised  and its important they carry out a thorough 
investigation before making a decision. However, based on good industry practice, and the 
relevant PSRs which Ive mentioned above, I think it would have been more appropriate to 
issue Ms S with a temporary credit for the £9,470 transaction, as they did with the £300.
This would have put Ms S back in the position she was in before the disputes took place and 
would have reduced the impact significantly on Ms S. Therefore, I think its appropriate that 
Barclays pay Ms S 8% simple interest on the £9,470 to recognise the time she was without 
the use of this money.
I appreciate Ms S has asked for around £18,000 compensation. I cant agree that is an 
appropriate amount based on the circumstances of whats happened. I do however 
recognise the emotional impact this would have had on Ms S, and therefore I think Barclays 
should also pay Ms S £300 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused her.
So I thought to put things right, Barclays should:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the £9,470 amount they refunded Ms S. 
They should calculate this from the date the money was taken to the date they 
refunded it.HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to withhold income tax 
from the above-mentioned interest. Barclays should give Ms S a certificate showing 
how much is taken off if Ms S asks for one.
Pay Ms S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it.
Ms S responded through her rep, and in summary said:
She wasnt able to report the fraud on the same evening she became aware because 
of Police station closures and then being given a website address.
She incurred further costs through taxi fares and legal attorneys as a result of the 
fraud.
She lost out on money when cancelling her trip due to the late notice. And cancelled 
a further trip as it would have been expensive to change.
As well as not being able to visit her children, she wasnt able to support her 
daughter during her professional exams as she was occupied with the fraud.
The time she went without the money resulted in psychological trauma and she is 
now saving money for medical costs.
Her husband had a similar experience before but Ms S feels nothing was done to 
keep her account secure.
Therefore, she thinks more compensation is warranted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the extra information Ms S has supplied. And while I dont doubt 
this was an extremely difficult time for her, Im not going to ask Barclays to increase the 
amount of compensation.
I explained in my provisional decision why I wasnt satisfied that Ms Ss trips to her family 
were cancelled because of this fraud. And thats because Ms S told us on the day she found 
out about the fraud, she went into branch to transfer the money into her savings account. So 
I cant fairly conclude that the money she was temporarily missing because of the fraud was 
meant for her holidays. 
I also appreciate Ms S spent money on taxi fares and legal advice. But I cant hold Barclays 
responsible for the actions Ms S chose to take. Barclays were actively investigating the fraud 
claim and therefore Ms S didnt have to go to the store herself  nor was she told to seek 
any kind of legal advice. While this was Ms Ss choice to do that, and one she can rightfully 
make, I cant reasonably say Barclays should pay for her making those choices. So while I 
recognise Ms S is at a loss, I dont consider it reasonable for Barclays to pay for these 
losses.
Ms S being without her money for around six weeks would have been difficult  especially 
when she didnt know the outcome of Barclays investigation and whether she would get that money back. Ive no reason to disbelieve Ms S when she explains the psychological impact 
this had on her. However, I do feel the £300 compensation fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience based on the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
 Overall, I think Barclays should have done more to help Ms S when they became aware of 
the fraud. As explained in my provisional decision, I think a temporary credit would have 
been reasonable. Barclays paying interest on the amount Ms S was missing, fairly reflects 
the time Ms S was without that money. And I consider the £300 compensation reflects the 
distress caused.
My final decision
  So, for the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Ss 
complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the £9,470 amount they refunded Ms S. 
They should calculate this from the date the money was taken to the date they refund 
it.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to withhold income tax 
from the above-mentioned interest. Barclays should give Ms S a certificate showing 
how much is taken off if Ms S asks for one.
Pay Ms S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman