DRN-1930208
The complaint
Mr T complains Revolut Ltd restricted hes account unreasonably numerous times, after he 
says he provided all relevant information that Revolut Ltd had requested. He is also unhappy 
with the overall level of service he has received from Revolut Ltd.
What happened
Mr T applied for a Metal account with Revolut. This account came with additional benefits 
such as trading functions, as well as offering a premium level of customer service.
After taking out the account, Revolut contacted Mr T to provide evidence of his income. 
Revolut says it did this to satisfy its relevant security checks. During this period of time, Mr 
Ts account had some features restricted  such as the trading functionality. Mr T says this 
restriction was unreasonable and that he has not had the benefits of the account he has paid 
a fee for. He says he complied with Revoluts information requests, and therefore hes 
account shouldnt have been restricted.
Mr T also complains that he did not receive premium customer support; which he says is a 
component of his account. He says when he tried to resolve the issue with his account 
restriction, he wasnt giving preferential treatment, and therefore Revolut has failed in its 
obligations to him  in particular that it mayve lost his initial information. 
Revolut responded to Mr Ts complaint saying it had asked for reasonable information, which 
it needed to satisfy itself of the relevant checks. Both Mr T and Revolut provided our service 
with a chat history, which Revolut says shows Mr T was the main cause for the delay in the 
restriction being lifted. Revolut says it actioned the removal of any restrictions efficiently 
once all information had been presented. Revolut also says it aims to offer its Metal account 
holders preferential customer service; however at times of high demand this can still cause 
delays in the response times customers receive. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ts complaint and felt Revolut had acted reasonably. She felt 
the chat history which had been provided showed that Revolut had actioned its requests 
efficiently once all information had been received. She also felt Revoluts explanation of the 
customer service issues was reasonable in the context of the circumstances.
Mr T disagreed with her findings. He says he provided the required information within one 
week of Revoluts request, and therefore hes account was unfairly restricted. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with each of Mr Ts concerns in turn.
Account restriction
Mr T says his account was unreasonably restricted for a prolonged period of time. He says 
the requested information was provided to Revolut within a week of the initial request. 
Revolut says this information was either not sufficient for it to remove the restrictions on Mr 
Ts account. 
Ill turn firstly to Revoluts request for information. Neither party has expressly disagreed that 
the request was unreasonable in the first instance. Mr T says he provided the information 
once it was requested. Revolut says it requested the information in order to meet its relevant 
obligations. Considering the nature of the request, Im satisfied that Revolut acted 
reasonably in requesting this information. The crux of Mr Ts complaint is more specifically 
directed to the time delay and restriction of some of his account features, once the 
information had been requested. 
Revolut says Mr T didnt supply all of the necessary information it needed to verify his funds 
and therefore remove the restriction on his account. It says it needed bank statements to 
complete its relevant checks. Mr T says he provided information to Revolut In August 2019. 
He has said to us he cannot remember exactly what information he provided but it was either 
payslips or bank statements. Revolut has provided a screenshot of payslips which were 
provided at that time. So, Im satisfied this is more than likely the information which was 
given by Mr T. 
Revolut says this information was provided directly to the app by Mr T, and wouldve been 
prompted by a request via the app. This seems consistent with Mr Ts testimony about 
providing information within the week of being notified by Revolut, so Im satisfied this is 
more than likely what happened at that point in time. 
However, Revolut says this information wasnt sufficient for it to verify Mr Ts funds and that 
it required further information. It says it this point Mr T didnt provide the further necessary 
information which in this case was copies of his bank statements. Mr Ts argument is that the 
information he initially provided were sufficient to remove the restriction on his account. 
Based on the information Ive seen Id have to disagree. Ultimately it appears that Revolut 
required further information in the form of bank statements and that these werent provided 
to it at the initial request in August 2019. And as such I cant reasonably say Revolut have 
acted unfairly in not removing the restriction on Mr Ts account.
Further, looking at the information Ive been given it appears as if Mr T first contacted 
Revolut in October 2019 to challenge the restriction of his account and to verify his funds. 
Im persuaded had Mr T provided the correct information that he wouldve more likely than 
not chased this sooner. Instead he appears to have waited for approximately a month before 
chasing this. During this time, he says he was aware of the account being restricted. Again, 
had he provided this information sooner, I think its more than likely Mr T wouldve raised this 
with Revolut. I also note once the relevant information was provided to Revolut at a later 
date  of which there is a record  Mr Ts request was action efficiently. 
So, on balance, taking the above into consideration, Im satisfied that had the correct or 
complete information been provided in August 2019 then Im persuaded Mr Ts account 
wouldve more likely than not been activated at that time. 
Turning to the issue of the amount of time Mr Ts account was restricted. Ive reviewed the 
chat communication between both parties; and Im satisfied that Revolut is sufficiently clear 
in explaining what information Mr T needed to provide. Im also satisfied that the date and 
time stamps on the chat history show gaps where Mr T has either left the conversation or not responded to the request. For example, I can see Revolut requested Mr T provide further 
information on 1 October 2019 around 2.50pm. There was no response from Mr T until 5 
October 2019 around 5.30pm; and at this point he hadnt provided the information. 
There is continued discussion via the chat between Mr T and Revolut over proceeding 
weeks. Each time Revoluts agent respond to Mr T in a timely manner. The conversation 
centres on Mr T saying he has provided payslips, and the fact he doesnt have full access to 
the account. However, I cant see Mr T provides the requested bank statements during this 
period of time. There is a further request for the bank statements from Revolut on 23 
October 2019.
I can see a further chat from Mr T then begins in late November 2019, where he explains his 
account has been restricted. From the chat history it seems that Revolut respond to Mr Ts 
requests in a timely manner. For example, I can see Mr T contacted Revolut on 22 
November 2019 to complain about the account restriction, and information was requested by 
Revolut on the same day. Again, it appears Mr T does not respond to this request until 25 
November 2019; and ultimately providing the relevant information on 27 November 2019 
whereupon the account is activated.
Having considered this time line, as well as the request for information; Im satisfied that 
Revolut has acted reasonably. Ultimately it has explained to Mr T what information it 
requires, and once the information is received it has actioned Mr Ts request in a timely 
manner. As such Im satisfied Revolut has acted reasonably in relation to this matter. 
Overall level of customer service
Mr T also complains Revolut did not provide the premium level of customer service that he 
expected as part of his Metal account membership. Revolut has explained to our service 
how it operates its various customer chat options and that Metal account members do get 
access to premium service. However, when there are periods of high demand than this 
premium service can also experience delays.
Ive considered these arguments as well as the relevant information on this case; and Im 
satisfied Revolut has acted reasonably in this instance. As Ive explained above, the chat 
history between Mr T and Revolut shows Revolut responded to Mr Ts communication 
promptly on the same day. Ive explained that Im satisfied Revoluts requests were 
reasonable and clear, and that the gaps in communication seem to appear from Mr T leaving 
the chat and returning at a later date  sometimes days apart.
I also note that once the relevant information was provided Revolut actioned Mr Ts requests 
efficiently.
I note Mr T is unhappy with how Revolut has handled his information, and that he says this 
information mayve been lost. Again, there is no evidence to suggest this is the case. And as 
such I cant say Revolut has done anything wrong in this regard. 
As such Im satisfied Revolut has acted reasonably when dealing with Mr Ts overall 
concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2020. Tom Whittington
Ombudsman