DRN-3354717
The complaint
Mr M complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim for 
repairs to his car following an issue with his timing belt.
 
What happened
Mr M holds a breakdown repair policy with Acromas. In January 2022 he contacted Acromas 
as his vehicle was making a strange noise. An engineer was sent to inspect the vehicle who 
determined there was an issue with the timing chain tensioner, and explained that Mr M 
would need to take his vehicle to a garage for inspection. The mileage was noted at this point 
as 71,482. 
Mr M told Acromas hed be taking his vehicle to the manufacturers garage, and asked 
whether theyd pay for the diagnostics and repairs. Acromas said theyd need to assess the 
claim before agreeing to anything, but if successful theyd repair the vehicle and look to 
cover the cost of the diagnostics, subject to an overall claim limit of £500 (£535 limit, less 
£35 policy excess). They said the garage would need to contact Acromas to detail their 
findings and provide them with the vehicles mileage before repairs were carried out. The 
case would then be passed to one of their technical advisors to assess whether its 
something theyd contribute towards. They also explained that if the claim wasnt successful, 
Mr M would be liable for the diagnostic costs. 
Mr M was unable to get his vehicle assessed by the manufacturers garage straight away. He 
let Acromas know and was told this wasnt a problem, as there were no time limits for this. 
But they did explain that if Mr M continued to use the vehicle, this could invalidate his claim, 
and that any further damage caused by this wouldnt be covered. Mr M confirmed he 
understood.
Around a week later, Acromas were contacted by the garage, and it was confirmed that 
there was damage to the timing chain as it was originally thought. But Acromas were also 
told at this point that the vehicles mileage was now 72,017  an increase of more than 500 
miles since Mr M reported the fault. So Acromas declined Mr Ms claim, as they said the 
policy was designed to provide cover in the event of a breakdown. And as Mr M was able to 
drive the vehicle a significant distance since he reported the fault, the circumstances didnt 
match the policy definition of a breakdown, so there was no cover for this. Acromas also said 
the garage attending to the vehicle noted that Mr M had taken his vehicle to them for the 
same fault prior to calling Acromas, so they didnt think the breakdown could be considered 
sudden and unexpected. Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Ms complaint, but didnt recommend it was upheld. She said 
she felt the evidence showed that Mr M was made aware both by phone, and in the policy 
terms, that further driving of the vehicle either may or will affect the claim. She was also 
satisfied that as Mr M was able to drive the vehicle more than 500 miles, the circumstances 
didnt meet the policy definition of a breakdown. So, she thought it was reasonable for 
Acromas to decline the claim in these circumstances. 
Mr M remained unhappy with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has set out his complaint at length, and Id like to thank him for taking the time to do 
so. However, my findings will only address those matters I consider central to the outcome of 
this complaint. So, I wont address each and every point that has been raised. I trust this 
wont be taken as a discourtesy, but it reflects the informal nature of this service. 
Its important to first point out, as the investigator has, that this policy isnt designed to carry 
out standard repairs or replacement of car parts. It only provides cover in the event that a 
vehicle has broken down, and such cover is intended to get the vehicle operational again. 
When Mr M contacted Acromas it was clear that there was an issue with his vehicle, and it 
was attended to under his breakdown policy. The policy states that in the event of a 
breakdown:
Whenever possible we'll get your vehicle taken to one of our network of preferred garages 
for repair. Alternatively, if you prefer, we can get your vehicle to a professional repairer of 
your choice (The vehicle must be taken to a garage without delay if it cannot be fixed at the 
roadside, any delay or continued use will affect the validity of a potential claim).
Mr M has argued that its unfair for Acromas to decline the claim due to him continuing to 
drive the car, when by Acromas own admission, they instructed Mr M to take the vehicle to 
the garage, which he feels would also invalidate the claim. 
Mr M has also said that the policy shows that it is for Acromas to arrange taking Mr Ms car 
to a garage, not for him to arrange it himself, which he feels has contributed to him being in 
this position. 
I accept what Mr M has said, and I can see the policy does suggest that Acromas, where 
possible, would arrange for the vehicle to be taken to the repairers. But Im also satisfied that 
Mr M was keen that his vehicle went to the manufacturers garage from the outset. And, just 
a day after raising the claim, when Mr M spoke with Acromas to explain the manufacturers 
garage couldnt see his vehicle for a week, he was told that continued use of the vehicle 
could have an impact on the outcome of his claim. 
Mr M has argued that if driving the car at all was going to impact his claim, then the mileage 
driven should be irrelevant, but I disagree. Im satisfied that the purpose of this term, is not to 
capture scenarios where a customer may need to drive the vehicle a few miles to a local 
garage in order for repairs to be carried out, but is there to avoid additional damage being 
caused to a vehicle from continued driving. And in this case, it seems clear that the vehicle 
hadnt driven just a few miles in order to get to the garage, but had driven over 500 miles in a 
week from continued use. 
Furthermore, Ive also noted that the policy covers repairs or parts needed, in order to fix the 
vehicle at the roadside, or within a garage following a breakdown, and the terms say that:
Mechanical or Electrical Failures must cause a sudden and unexpected Breakdown, this 
policy will not cover failures that you were previously aware of or have been made aware of 
or that are not directly related to the cause of the Breakdown. 
It then goes on to define a breakdown as:A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure: and
b) which has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership: and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely: and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your AA membership, 
commenced.
So, taking the above into account, I dont think replacement parts, or repairs required to 
Mr Ms vehicle, were needed in order for him to resume or commence a journey, as covered 
under the policy. This is because Mr M was able to drive the car for a considerable distance 
prior to repairs being completed, and therefore I think its fair conclude that the vehicle 
wasnt broken down. So I dont think Acromas were wrong to decline Mr Ms claim under his  
policy, as cover was only in place following a breakdown, and Im satisfied this wasnt the 
case here.  
In addition, I also note that Acromas, when speaking to the manufacturers garage, were 
informed that just prior to Mr M contacting them, hed already taken the vehicle to the garage 
to discuss the same issue with his timing belt. So equally, I think its fair to conclude that not 
only was the vehicle not broken down, but that the event that led to the claim was not 
sudden, or unexpected, as required under the policy. 
So, while I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr M, for the reasons set out above, 
Im not asking Acromas to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman