DRN-3580486
The complaint
Miss D complains about the way Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited settled a 
claim against her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Ds pet insurance for her dog was transferred to her in February 2021. 
In October 2021, Miss Ds dog became unwell suddenly. The vet was unsure of the cause 
and said tests were required. So, Miss D contacted Red Sands via a webchat to clarify the 
policy limit and was told it was £4,000. Sadly, Miss Ds dog was put to sleep a few days 
later. She raised a claim for £3,116.67. 
Red Sands didnt agree to cover the full claim costs as the policy limit per condition was 
£1,000. They later accepted they provided Miss D with incorrect information during the 
webchat. Miss D wasnt happy and complained. She said she wouldnt have consented to 
the vet carrying out tests had she been correctly informed, due to financial reasons. 
Red Sands responded to the complaint in November 2021. They maintained their position on 
the claim settlement saying Miss D was provided with policy information. They did accept 
they provided incorrect information and refunded Miss Ds excess. Miss D remained 
unhappy and approached our service. 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 June 2022, which said the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy limit and what was communicated 
At the time Miss Ds dog became unwell the policy limit was £1,000. So, its clear Miss D 
was provided with the wrong policy limit amount via a webchat on 20 October 2021. 
However, this doesnt automatically mean Red Sands must now pay a claim beyond their 
liability. 
Ive gone on to consider what happened leading up to the incorrect information being given. 
I dont think our investigator placed the appropriate weight on this  particularly the 7 
October 2021 call between Miss D and Red Sands, which was roughly two weeks prior to 
the webchat and claim. 
Ive now been provided with a copy of this call recording. During this call, Miss D asks 
whether the policy limit could be changed from £1,000 to £4,000. The agent confirms it can, 
the new premium, and when the limit would change. Crucially, the £1,000 limit was said to 
remain until the policy renewed (November 2021) and until the 14-day waiting period ended. 
As above, this conversation took place roughly two weeks prior to the webchat and claim. I 
think this demonstrates Miss D ought to have reasonably been aware the policy limit was 
£1,000  despite the wrong information given afterwards. As such, I currently dont think its 
reasonable that Red Sands should be required to pay the remaining amount of Miss Ds 
claim over and above their liability. I do, however, think Miss D experienced a loss of 
expectation which Ill return to later in my decision. 
What Miss D would have likely done if things had happened as they should have? 
Miss D says had she been told the policy limit was £1,000 during the 20 October 2021 
webchat, she wouldnt have consented to the vet carrying out tests to find the cause and 
treatment to give her dog the best chance of recovery  due to financial reasons. As such, 
Ive thought about whether Im persuaded Miss D would have done anything differently had 
things happened in the way they should have. That is  had the correct information been 
given to her during the webchat. 
I fully recognise that this will be a contentious part of my decision as Ive to look at the 
evidence and then make a judgement call based on the balance of probabilities. That is, 
what Miss D more likely than not would have done  not what Miss D definitely would have 
done  as nobody can safely say that given the circumstances of the complaint. 
Miss D says her dog was only two years old when they became suddenly unwell. The clinical 
notes dont suggest there werent any prospects of her dog making a full recovery following 
these tests. So, its most likely in my view  as a responsible pet owner  Miss D would have 
wanted the vet to make every effort to give her dog the best chance of a full recovery. I 
consider this a fair assumption to make based on what Ive seen. 
I note Miss D says her reasons not to give consent would have been purely financial. The 
evidence to support this currently is Miss D says shes paying the vet costs monthly. But 
equally, when Miss D called to increase the policy limit, she was made aware of the higher 
monthly cost of the policy renewal. What Ive seen so far doesnt sufficiently persuade me 
that Miss D would have chosen to stop treatment at the £1,000 policy limit  had correct 
information been given. 
Ive kept in mind the 7 October 2021 conversation Miss D had regarding the policy limit 
which wasnt consistent with what she was later told via the webchat two weeks later. This, 
in my view, could have given Miss D reasonable awareness that what she was told during 
the webchat wasnt correct  and given her cause to question it. But, for balance, I accept 
that this will have been a very stressful time for Miss D. That is; a young pet suddenly 
becoming seriously unwell and Miss D having her everyday life and employment to try and 
continue as normal as could be expected. So in short, I can see a scenario where Miss D 
was clearly informed of the correct policy limit on 7 October 2021, but for assurance and 
because she had more than one policy, started a webchat before deciding what course of 
action to take with her dogs treatment. 
But I return to my earlier point. Notwithstanding the incorrect information given during the 
webchat, Miss D reasonably ought to have questioned the policy limit given the phone 
conversation that happened shortly before and the likelihood that the vet costs could very 
quickly exceed the £1,000 policy limit. 
Instead, the evidence shows that Miss D didnt challenge the information she was provided 
with during the webchat. She went on to request the vet carried out tests to give her dog the 
best chance of a recovery. Im not persuaded currently, given her dogs age at the time and 
the sudden illness, Miss D would have done anything differently had she been given the 
correct policy limit on 20 October 2021. She acted in a way Id expect most, if not all, responsible pet owners would when facing circumstances of a young pet suffering from a 
very sudden illness. 
Summary 
Its very unfortunate Miss D was given incorrect information she says resulted in her 
consenting to tests she otherwise wouldnt. But, overall, I currently think Miss D ought to 
have reasonably been aware the policy limit was £1,000, despite the wrong information, 
when her dog became unwell. And in any event, I havent currently been persuaded she 
would have done anything differently had things happened in the way they should have. 
Returning to Miss Ds loss of expectation because of the incorrect information given to her. 
Whilst I currently dont think Red Sands should cover the full claim costs, its clear Miss D 
would have experienced a level of distress and inconvenience  over and above whats 
naturally expected following a claim and the circumstances she was faced with. 
I note Red Sands refunded Miss Ds excess, but I dont think that goes far enough to 
recognise the impact their error had on Miss D. So, I currently intend on directing Red Sands 
to pay Miss D £100 compensation. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Red Sands responded to my provisional decision saying they had nothing further to add, 
which suggests they agreed with my provisional decision. 
Miss D on the other hand didnt respond to my provisional decision despite our service 
contacting her on 21 June 2022 requesting she acknowledges receipt of the decision and 
responds within the timescales I set out. Our investigator also contacted Miss D on 30 June 
2022 outlining the response time had passed, which was then extended to 5 July 2022. As 
no response has been received from Miss D since my provisional decision and follow up 
response requests, I must set out my final decision on the information I do have, which 
follows. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out within my provisional decision I appreciated this would have been a very stressful 
time for Miss D. But I must also keep in mind the evidence presented here which suggests  
in my view - Miss D reasonably ought to have been aware the policy limit was £1,000 
despite being given incorrect information on 20 October 2021. And, based on everything Ive 
seen, I havent been persuaded Miss D would have done anything differently had she been 
given the correct information when she contacted Red Sands via a webchat on 20 October 
2021. 
What remains, however, is Miss D experienced a loss of expectation which Ive no doubt 
would have caused her to experience a level of distress and inconvenience. As above, this 
would have been a very distressing time given her young dog became unwell very suddenly. 
Red Sands made an error when providing Miss D with the incorrect policy limit, so I maintain 
£100 compensation is fair, reasonable, and proportionate in the circumstances of this 
complaint to recognise the impact this had on her. So, whilst I wont be directing Red Sands 
to pay the claim in full, Ill be requiring them to pay Miss D £100 compensation.   My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to pay Miss D £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman