DRN-2584265
Complaint
Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt do enough to help him when he was the victim 
of a scam.
  
Background
Mr A has an account with Lloyds and a travel insurance policy in connection with it. In 
February 2019, a sizeable claim was paid out under that policy. Shortly afterwards, he was 
contacted by someone who purported to be a representative of a large business offering 
investment services. He was told that the business was part of the same corporate group as 
the insurer that had just paid his claim. It knew that he had significant funds available 
following that payment and wanted to discuss an investment opportunity with him.
Mr A was persuaded to transfer significant sums under the belief that he was investing in 
well-known and publicly listed companies. He made his first payment on 21 March 2019 and 
continued to make payments periodically until 11 August 2019.
Unfortunately, Mr A was dealing with a fraudster who was operating a cloned firm that was 
set up to be otherwise indistinguishable from a well-known business. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had published a warning about fraudsters imitating this firm by 8 May 
2019.
After his last payment in August, contact with the scammers stopped. Mr A had concerns 
about what that might mean for his investments, but he was eventually able to speak to them 
again. They fabricated a story about the companys telephone system being hacked and, by 
way of an apology, they offered him a complementary flight ticket to an investors 
conference. Shortly after that, he called the airline which told him that the flight in question 
didnt exist.
Mr A realised that he must have been the victim of a scam all along. In total, he had 
transferred £112,837.57 to the scammers over a period of five months. He notified Lloyds 
and complained that it hadnt done enough to protect him from fraud. 
Lloyds is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code which came into force on 28 May 2019  that is, during the period that the 
scam was carried out. That means that the latter payments are covered by the CRM, but the 
earlier ones arent. Lloyds agreed that it didnt provide him with an effective warning about 
the risks posed by investment scams under the terms of the CRM code  so it agreed to 
refund 50% of the losses that he incurred after the CRM Code came into effect. 
It didnt think that it needed to reimburse Mr A in full. It said that Mr A was expected to take 
care to ensure that the company he was paying was genuine. It gave an example by saying 
that he shouldve contacted it on a genuine phone number to make sure that the investment 
opportunity was legitimate. In respect of the payments Mr A made prior to the CRM Code 
taking effect, Lloyds simply said it had attempted to recover the funds from the fraudsters 
bank.
Mr A wasnt happy with this response, so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator said that Lloyds shouldve had 
concerns that Mr A was at risk of financial harm. She said that these concerns ought to have 
been triggered by the payment Mr A made on 7 May 2019. It was at that point, the 
investigator thought, that a pattern of payments had emerged that showed the account was 
being used in an atypical fashion.
If Lloyds had intervened at that point, it couldve discussed the payment with Mr A before 
processing it. If it had done so, it wouldve had a reasonable basis for suspecting Mr A was 
at risk of fraud and taken steps to help avert that. As a result, Lloyds wouldve prevented Mr 
A from making all of the subsequent payments that were connected to the scam. 
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators opinion. It said that Mr A shouldve regarded it as 
unlikely that hed have the opportunity to invest directly with the companies he thought he 
was investing in. It also argued that Mr A shouldve recognised that it was implausible hed 
genuinely be offered a free flight to an investors conference. It said that this showed that Mr 
A didnt have a reasonable basis of belief when making these payments.
Because Lloyds disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mr A authorised the scam payments. He was duped into 
transferring those sums to the fraudsters. They deceived him into thinking they were a 
legitimate business offering him bespoke investment advice. I accept that this was an 
authorised payment even though Mr A was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He used his 
security credentials to authorise these payments. 
So, although he did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, he is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The first payment Mr A made in connection with the scam was on 21 March 2019 and was for just under £3,000. The next payment was larger (nearly £8,000) and left Mr As account 
on 12 April.
I dont think Lloyds couldve had any reasonable basis for treating these earlier payments as 
unusual or out of character. It provided me with statement data on Mr As account and it 
wasnt uncommon for him to make bank transfers of this size. However, by the time he made 
the £8,000 transfer on 7 May, it was his third transfer of over £8,000 within a period of one 
week. That represented a significant change in the usage of the account. Lloyds ought to 
have questioned that payment with Mr A more closely to satisfy itself that he wasnt at risk of 
financial harm.
If it had done so, it wouldve discovered that Mr A had been cold-called and offered an 
investment opportunity  these are commonly occurring features of investment scams. 
Furthermore, although it wasnt known until the following day that fraudsters had 
successfully cloned this business, Lloyds ought to have been aware of the general risk of 
fraudsters presenting themselves as representatives of well-known financial businesses.
As I understand it, Mr A wouldnt have been able to share much detail about the nature of his 
investments. He didnt have the name of a specific product that hed invested him. Hed 
simply been told that his money was being invested in publicly listed companies, some in the 
United States.
I dont think it wouldve been difficult to persuade Mr A to carry out some additional checks at 
that point before going ahead with any further payments. A bank employee couldve 
recommended he call the business he thought he was dealing with, ideally using the contact 
number on the entry on the FCA Register. If that had happened, the scam wouldve 
unravelled quite quickly and the spell the scammers had placed Mr A under wouldve been 
broken.
Ive considered whether Mr A should bear some responsibility for his losses by way of 
contributory negligence. And having done so, Im not persuaded he should. The scammer 
presented themselves to Mr A in such a way that it was credible that they were a 
representative of a genuine financial business. There was nothing in the email 
communications or the website that ought to have put Mr A on alert that this might be a 
scam. Furthermore, he trusted the legitimacy of the call he had from the scammer because 
the scammer had information that Mr A reasonably believed only a genuine financial 
business would possess. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr A was simply the unwitting victim of a sophisticated and cynical 
scam and cant be said to be responsible for his losses. I find that Lloyds shouldve 
intervened and questioned the payment instruction given by Mr A on 7 May 2019. If it had 
done so, I think it wouldve successfully prevented Mr A from making all of the subsequent 
payments he made in connection with the scam, including those that are covered by the 
CRM Code. 
Nonetheless, Ive considered what Lloyds has had to say about the CRM code, how it 
applies to the later payments and whether I think Lloyds shouldve reimbursed him. The 
code requires firms to refund customers who have fallen victim to Authorised Push Payment 
(APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances  so Lloyds should have 
reimbursed Mr A in full, unless it could demonstrate that one of the exceptions applies.
In this instance, it has argued that Mr A made the payments without a reasonable basis for 
belief. It says that he shouldve carried out more checks to ensure that he was dealing with a 
legitimate firm and that he shouldve recognised it was unlikely that hed have the 
opportunity to directly invest in the businesses he was told he was investing in.Ive considered this argument carefully but Im not persuaded by it. The nature of the initial 
contact from the scammer meant that Mr A treated it with less suspicion. Although he was 
cold-called, he believed that it was in connection with a pre-existing relationship he had with 
a financial business. It was able to give him false confidence because it was aware of the 
background of his recent claim and knew that he had money to invest. 
The communications from the scammer (including the fake website and the emails it sent to 
Mr A) were professional and credible. It was reasonable for Mr A to have believed that these 
originated from the genuine investment firm.
Mr A did carry out some checks before starting to transfer money. For example, he told us 
he looked up the company on the FCA website and looked up the contact addresses for the 
individuals he was dealing with. These checks clearly wouldnt be sufficient to rule out the 
risk of an investment scam, but I dont think it would be reasonable to expect him to know 
which checks would be the most effective to protect himself, particularly in the absence of an 
effective warning. Im satisfied that he took some basic steps to reassure himself that the 
investment was authentic and he proceeded in the genuine and reasonable belief that it was.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds has demonstrated that one of the exceptions is applicable and it 
follows that it shouldve reimbursed Mr A under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC now needs 
to:
Refund each payment Mr A made in connection with the scam from 7 May 2019 until 
11 August 2019.
Pay 8% simple interest on each of those payments from the date Mr A made them 
until the date a settlement is paid.1
Deduct from this total any refund it has already paid when it partially upheld Mr As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman
1 Ive found that Lloyds couldve prevented all of Mr As losses from the 7 May 2019 payment onwards 
and so Ive directed it to calculate 8% simple interest from the date of each payment, rather than the 
date it declined Mr As claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model.