DRN-3355584
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc refuses to refund some payments he made to an 
investment company.
What happened
Mr S traded with a company Ill call Q between 2016 to 2017. He made payments of around 
£80,100 and received credits of around £57,600. Mr S contacted Barclays in April 2017 
complaining that hed closed his account with Q and wanted some pending transactions to 
be refunded.
Mr S says he submitted documents to Barclays for it to raise chargeback claims on his 
behalf. He says he wasnt kept properly updated about this process. 
Barclays responded to Mr S concerns in January 2019 and acknowledged it had 
conversations with him in April 2017. But it explained the dispute was closed because Mr S 
had not responded to its request for further information. It reviewed the claim and explained 
Mr S was out of time for chargeback and highlighted that he continued to transact with Q 
after he disputed the payments with it. It paid £600 in compensation and an additional £232 
to cover unpaid transaction fees. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think Mr S had any appropriate 
chargeback options. She said he authorised the transactions and wasnt persuaded Q was a 
scam company.
 
Mr S didnt think his complaint had been properly understood. He said in summary:
His account with Q was closed due to Barclays attempting chargeback claims but it 
didnt raise them properly and he provided enough information for it to do so;
The payments in November 2017 were made via Skrill not directly to Q;
Hes never deposited more than £1,500 in a single day, yet over £18,000 was taken 
in one day which should have been a concern to Barclays and hes seen decisions 
from this office that reference similar points. 
Our investigator replied and said the reason Mr S trading account was closed is not 
something that can be considered against Barclays. She acknowledges the payments after 
November 2017 went via Skrill but Q was listed in the reference. She also said Visa required 
specific evidence which Mr S did not have and there is no evidence that Barclays processed 
chargeback claims for him. 
Mr S provided further information around why he thought his chargeback claim could have 
succeeded. He also explained that £600 for Barclays delay wasnt enough. He asked for an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr S complaint and Ill explain why.
Unauthorised transactions 
Mr S wouldnt be liable for transactions he didnt make or otherwise authorise. I recognise 
that Mr S says the disputed payments were made without his permission, but I think its more 
likely that he did authorise the payments and Ill explain why. 
I havent found Mr S account of events to be particularly credible as theyve changed. When 
Mr S first disputed the payments with Barclays on 5 April 2017, he said he closed his 
account with Q on 25 March 2017 and they shouldnt have taken any payments after this 
date. In later conversations, he said that he disputed all of the payments that were taken 
from 5 April 2017. But this would mean that he authorised some of the payments he initially 
said shouldnt have been taken as there were payments to Q after 25 March 2017 up to the 
date of Mr S disputed payments, so I dont find Mr S testimony about which transactions 
were unauthorised to be particularly persuasive.  
During the call on 5 April 2017, Mr S was asked to provide evidence that Q had refunded the 
payments in dispute and he said obviously theyre not going to accept it but didnt expand 
on this any further. He was adamant that Q would not provide proof that they had refunded 
the payments but its unclear why he felt this way. Hed had a long relationship with Q and 
had received credits of over £40,000 from them since 2016. I dont find it plausible given the 
nature of their relationship that Q would have taken money from Mr S without his consent 
and refused to return it.
In March 2021, Mr S asked Q to provide evidence of withdrawals made between 1 April 
2017 to 8 April 2017 which they duly provided to him. He stated to our investigator that the 
withdrawals amounted to around £18,000 which was taken back out of his account by Q but 
this isnt consistent with what he told Barclays. During a call with Barclays on 7 April 2017, 
Mr S said he was disputing payments of around £18,000. The adviser said theyve given 
you the money back (as Mr S had received credits from Q) but Mr S said thats different 
money and Q had refused to refund other payments. So if the disputed payments were in 
some way linked to the credits hed just received, I think Mr S would have explained this at 
the time. Ive also seen that the credits received by Mr S correspond with earlier payments 
he made of the same amounts, not the amounts in dispute, so I dont think they simply took 
the credits back out without his prior agreement and by his own admission, it was different 
money.
I also find it odd that Mr S continued to transact with Q after he accused them of taking 
money from his account without his permission. Whilst he has indicated the subsequent 
payments were made via Skrill, Q was listed in the payment reference and he hasnt 
adequately explained why. 
 
On balance, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably by concluding the payments were 
authorised by Mr S. I think its most likely that he lost money due to the high risks involved in 
binary options trading, which is why he was unable to get all of it back. Q is not a fraudulent 
company and were regulated at the material time and is still in operation. Given the 
significant amounts Mr S deposited with Q over the course of his relationship with them and 
the significant sums he received from them its not plausible that they would have taken 
payments without his prior consent. I think this is why he was so adamant Q wouldnt provide any documentation that they had refunded the payments because some or all of the 
payments he disputed were lost. 
Chargeback 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Despite Mr S suggestion that chargeback claims were attempted by Barclays in relation to 
payments directly made to Q, Ive seen no evidence that Barclays attempted chargeback 
claims on his behalf. Ive noted Mr S email from Q stating that they had blocked his account 
due to chargeback but I think its more likely that Mr S alerted Q to the fact that he was 
raising chargeback claims with his bank as he was in communication with Q about 
withdrawals. Ive noted that Mr S received further credits from Q on 11 April 2017, 18 April 
2017 and 9 May 2017. But these dont appear to have been made in relation to any action 
taken by Barclays.
Ive therefore thought about whether Barclays ought to have raised chargeback claims on Mr 
S behalf. Our investigator was correct when she explained that chargeback disputes against 
investment trading companies under the Visa chargeback scheme is limited and would 
require specific evidence. For a claim against Q to have succeeded at the time of Mr S 
payments, he would needed to have provided written documentation that Q guaranteed an 
amount of profit/return he was due to receive. But this wasnt the nature of Mr S claim. He 
first said that the transactions werent authorised by him but he also said Q had said the 
bank would need to recover the payments. Ive already covered that I think Mr S authorised 
the payments. But Barclays were willing to assist Mr S with chargeback claims if he could 
provide evidence that Q had processed refunds for the disputed payments. 
Barclays advised that Mr S would need to sign and return the disclaimer form so that it could 
look into the matter further. Mr S returned the disclaimer which appears to have been 
received or reviewed by Barclays on 22 May 2017. Barclays wrote to Mr S on 26 May 2017 
requesting evidence (within seven days) that Q had refunded the disputed transactions. Ive 
seen that Mr S requested this evidence from Q in May 2017 but they dont appear to have 
responded. Ive seen no evidence that Barclays received the information it required from Mr 
S. It follows that I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably by not attempting chargeback 
claims on Mr S behalf as it didnt receive the specific evidence it requested from him. 
 
Unusual transactions
Ive noted that Mr S feels the payments in dispute ought to have been picked up by Barclays 
as out of character but I dont agree. Q was one of Mr S regular payees that hed paid 
significant sums to in the eight months leading up to his disputed payments. It also wasnt 
unusual for him to pay them multiple times a day from looking at his payment history with 
them. I acknowledge some of his disputed payments were larger in value than his normal 
payments to Q but as Ive explained, they were a payee that he paid often. I dont think the 
payments ought to have flagged as suspicious.
 
Even if I were to agree that Barclays ought to have intervened, Ive already said that 
Barclays didnt act unreasonably by concluding he authorised the payments in dispute. Therefore, if Barclays were to have intervened, I think Mr S would have confirmed the 
payments as genuine. So this point doesnt make a material difference to the outcome.
Customer service
Barclays acknowledged it could have handled things better and paid Mr S a total of £832 in 
compensation and unpaid fees. I think this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and 
I make no further award on this point.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman