DRN-3807532
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr M have complained about the deductions that Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) has made following their claim under their pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr M took their pet dog, who Ill refer to as T, to the vet early on Christmas day 
2021 for urgent treatment after hed ingested two boxes of chocolates. The vets bill was for 
£818.46 which they claimed from C&G. C&G made a number of deductions from the amount 
claimed maintaining that these were in line with their policy terms. After these deductions, 
Mrs C and Mr M only received £264.46. Theyve queried these deductions as they say they 
werent made clear in the policy.
The deductions were as follows:
Blood sample fee - The vet charged £24.54. C&G deducted £12.54, maintaining that the 
market average was £12 based on its in-house statistical research.
 
Fluid therapy - The vet charged £190.26. C&G initially declined payment of this on the 
ground that the treatment was elective. It subsequently agreed to pay £100 but deducted 
£90.26.
Hospitalisation and In-patient treatment fees - The vet charged £196.49. C&G paid £100 but 
deducted £96.49.
C&G says that it allows £100 for 24 hours hospitalisation inclusive of inpatient examination 
and nursing fees. It says that all hospitalisation fees were charged on 26 December 2021, so 
T was only hospitalised for one day (26 December) and the maximum payable for 24 hours 
is £100. Mrs C and Mr M say T was hospitalised for two days and this has been confirmed in 
a letter from the vet who says that T was admitted at around 07:20 on 25 December and 
discharged on the morning of 26 December.
Out of hours charge - The vet charged £265. C&G deducted £165 on the basis that £100 
was a reasonable fee based on its statistical research into out of hours charges which it says 
is based on rates which include fees charged on Bank Holidays and Christmas. 
C&G also deducted the £90 policy excess.
In making these deductions, C&G relies primarily on the following exclusions in the policy:
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: -
Reasonable; and
Essential for Your pet's health and well-being. We may limit any payment to a 
maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary Treatment, medication and dispensing fees.
 Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
 Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is 
preventive and not treating an Illness or Accidental Injury
 Any claim where the cost of a referral consultation exceeds £200 and where 
hospitalisation costs exceed £100 per day.
As Mrs C and Mr M werent satisfied with C&Gs final response to their complaint they 
brought it to this service. Our investigators view was that several of the deductions made by 
C&G werent reasonable.
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators assessment and has asked that the complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Cs and Mr Ms complaint in relation to most of the 
deductions made by C&G. Ill explain why by reference to each of the deductions.
Blood sample fee  The policy states, under General Exclusions, that Blood sampling 
charges will be capped at the UK market average. Customers are therefore advised that 
there is a cap on this fee. Its provided its basis for what it considers this figure should be. So 
I dont think that C&G has acted unreasonably in capping this figure at £12 and deducting 
the remaining £12.52 charged by the vet.  I consider that this is a reasonable deduction.
Fluid therapy  C&G hasnt provided a clear reason why it hasnt allowed the full claim of 
£190.26 for this treatment having now  accepted that the treatment wasnt elective, and has 
only agreed to pay £100. The vet considered this treatment necessary to treat what C&G 
itself has described as a serious emergency. The policy doesnt specify any limit on the 
cost of this treatment. It appears that C&Gs deduction is based on what it considers to be 
reasonable. I dont consider that this deduction has been substantiated and I therefore dont 
consider that its reasonable. C&G should pay the £90.26 that it deducted. 
Hospitalisation  I consider that its clear from the vets statement that T was admitted to 
hospital on 25 December and discharged on 26 December. Ive quoted above from the 
policy which states that it excludes any claim where the hospitalisation costs exceed £100 
per day. It doesnt refer to periods of 24 hours and a period of 24 hours being calculated 
from the date and time of admission to the date and time of discharge. Nor is that the basis 
upon which Mrs C and Mr M were charged by Ts vet. The vet in fact only charged half day 
rates.
I consider that the reasonable interpretation of the limitation is that it refers to calendar days. 
T was admitted on 25 December 2021 and discharged on 26 December so he was 
hospitalised for two days. C&G would be entitled to deduct any sum claimed over £200. The 
vets hospitalisation and In-patient examination fee amount to £196.49, so no deduction is 
appropriate. C&G should therefore not have made any deduction under this heading and 
should pay Mrs C and Mr M the £96.49 its deducted.
Out of hours  Among the exclusions within the policy is Any out of hours vet fees, except 
where this is life saving for your pet. C&G appears to accept that the treatment T received 
was to address a potentially life-threatening situation, so I consider that out of hours fees are 
recoverable, the question then being at what rate can these be recovered. C&G argues that its research has confirmed that £100 is a reasonable fee for an out of hours 
consultation and that the costs that exceeded £100 were correctly deducted. It has also 
argued that the policy states that it excludes Any claim where the cost of a referral 
consultation exceeds £200, and as T was seen by his regular vet and not a referral vet, this 
limit doesnt apply. 
In my opinion, as T was not seen by a referral vet but by his regular vet, the only limitation 
that might apply to claiming the amount charged is by reference to what is reasonable. C&G 
says £100 is reasonable for services provided on Christmas Day. In my view its not 
unreasonable for Ts vet to charge Mrs C and Mr M £265 taking into account that the vet was 
first contacted at 07:21 on Christmas Day. I therefore think C&Gs deduction of £165 is 
unreasonable in the circumstances and it should be paid.
 Excess  This is a legitimate and reasonable deduction as payment of an excess is clearly 
provided for in the policy.
My final decision
For the reason Ive given above Im partly upholding Mrs Cs and Mr Ms complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
1. to pay Mrs C and Mr M £351.75 being the amount its deducted from their claim but 
excluding the deduction of £12.52 for blood samples and the £90 policy excess. It 
should also pay a further £100 in respect of Ts fluid therapy if it hasnt already done 
so.
2. to pay Mrs C and Mr M interest on the sum so paid to them at the simple rate of 8% 
from the date of their claim to the date payment is made to them.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C and Mr 
M how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate if either of 
them asks for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman