DRN-3442444
The complaint
Mr R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd stopped him from making payments for 
cryptocurrency. He is also unhappy with the waiting times when trying to contact the bank. 
What happened
Mr R says he opened an account with Monzo in July 2021 in order to make payments for 
cryptocurrency. He says he was having issues making payments to a certain crypto 
exchange so he contacted Monzo to raise the issue. 
Mr R subsequently received a message from Monzo asking him to stop making 
cryptocurrency payments. Mr R wasnt happy about this and called Monzo. Mr R says he 
had to wait long periods of time in order to speak to someone. And when he asked for a call 
back to discuss the matter further, Mr R says no one called him back. 
Monzo accepted Mr R had waited a long time when trying to speak to someone over the 
phone. And so it paid £25 to reflect this. It didnt uphold the complaints about the messaging 
regarding using cryptocurrency exchanges on the account. Monzo said it had seen an 
increase in fraudulent behaviour on online cryptocurrency exchange platforms. And so it 
prohibited cryptocurrency trading on his account. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the response received from Monzo and so he referred his complaint 
to this service. Monzo told us that it shouldnt have told Mr R to stop using cryptocurrency 
but this wasnt addressed in its final response to his complaint. It offered to pay him a further 
£50 for the frustration the message had caused. Our investigator looked into things for him. 
She said although she could appreciate Mr Rs frustration with Monzo for blocking the 
payments she was satisfied it acted within its terms and conditions and didnt think it had 
treated Mr R unfairly. She also felt the level of compensation offered to reflect the service 
issues was reasonable and in line with what she would have expected. Mr R wasnt happy 
with the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure Mr R that I have read and understood the evidence I have been 
provided  including listening to the voicemail message he left in response to the 
investigators view, and the information provided at the outset of the complaint. 
I do understand Mr Rs strength of feeling about the banks decision to prohibit him from 
making cryptocurrency transactions. However his agreement with Monzo entitles it to do so. 
My role here is to see whether Monzo have acted fairly and reasonably in line with its terms 
and conditions and I think it has. 
Prohibiting account activity 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account. Ive considered these and they 
provide that Monzo, may block a third-party provider from accessing your account if we 
think that theyre acting without your permission or are being fraudulent. Well tell you if we 
do this (unless were not allowed to by law or it would impact the security measures we have 
in place to keep your account safe).  In Mr Rs case Monzo said it did so because of its 
fraud concerns. 
Fraud is a significant issue for banks and financial institutions. Monzo is uniquely placed to 
know and respond to any likely threats. And I think that a requirement to disclose details of 
the counter fraud measures it might be taking would be self-defeating. 
I know Mr R feels the steps taken by Monzo are unreasonable and disproportionate. And 
isnt happy the measures have been applied to his account but not to other peoples. Monzo 
can decide how it chooses to conduct its business and this isnt something I would normally 
interfere with. But I have looked into Monzos reasons, which it doesnt need to disclose to 
Mr R, and I understand why it has stopped Mr R from trading in cryptocurrency. I find it 
restricted Mr Rs account in line with the terms he agreed to when applying for the account. 
Monzo also has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet. Those obligations 
are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. It is common industry practice 
for banks to monitor accounts for activity which may fall outside its risk appetite. And 
accounts will often be restricted to prevent potential losses. 
I have carefully considered Monzos reasons for taking the steps it did. I understand its 
concern and find its basis for prohibiting those transactions is reasonable and in line with the 
terms of the account. 
Long wait times when contacting the bank 
I can understand Mr R may have been inconvenienced on the occasions he tried to contact 
Monzo, including not having a call returned and long wait times. I agree it was inconvenient 
for Mr R and Monzo have apologised for this. It also credited his account with £25 for the 
inconvenience. And I think this is reasonable in all circumstances of the complaint.
Complaint handling 
Mr R has said he doesnt think Monzo answered his complaint properly and missed some 
issues. Complaint handling is not something this service can generally consider as its not a 
regulated activity. But I can see Mr R was able to provide his complaint points and personal 
circumstances in detail. And Monzo issued him with a final response letter. 
Monzos written response may not have gone into the level of detail Mr R would have liked, 
but it did let him know it wasnt upholding his complaint and explained he could refer his 
matter to our service if he remained dissatisfied. 
Overall I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision but it follows I wont be asking 
Monzo to take any further action in respect of this complaint. I think £25 paid for poor service 
and £50 offered for the messaging is reasonable in all circumstances of the complaint. 
Putting things right
Monzo should pay Mr R £50 in addition to the £25 it has already paid him.My final decision
Monzo has already made an offer to pay Mr R an additional £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Monzo should pay Mr R £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman