DRN-2837818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. Mr A 
says that he wasnt made aware of the availability of an enhanced annuity when he opted for 
an annuity with the Prudential.
What happened
Mr A has an annuity with Prudential which he purchased in 2011.
Prudential wrote to Mr A in May 2019 and explained how the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), had asked it to review certain non-advised annuity sales. Mr As 
annuity sale was included in the review.
As part of the review Prudential asked Mr A questions about his health and lifestyle and 
about his awareness of the option to shop around for an annuity when he made his purchase 
in 2011.
Mr A responded and disclosed that he did have a health condition in 2011 which he was 
taking medication for.
Prudential reviewed the non-advised sale but concluded that it had provided Mr A with 
enough information about the availability of enhanced annuities and his Open Market Option 
(OMO) when he purchased his annuity.
Mr A didnt agree and in July 2019, he wrote to Prudential to complain and asked for copies 
of all documentation issued to him at the time of the original sale. He also said he was not 
advised he could receive a higher income if he had a medical condition.
Prudential investigated the complaint but didnt uphold it. Within its final response letter,
Prudential said:
The retirement pack we sent to you in April 2011 provided information about a number of
factors to think about when making your decision. This included an overview of what kinds of
medical and lifestyle conditions might qualify you for an enhanced annuity.
It also explained you had the option to shop around to purchase an annuity (or other pension
product). Within the pack we provided annuity quotes together with the relevant Key
Features Document (KFD).
Prudential also said that the FCA had determined that its standard packs were compliant 
with their requirements.
Mr A referred the complaint to this service where it was considered by an investigator. The 
investigator gave her view that the complaint should be upheld. In summary she said:
Prudential didnt provide Mr A with advice, but it needed to provide information which 
was clear, fair, and not misleading.
Enhanced annuities were only explained in the Key Features Document, which was 
made up of 28 pages. And enhanced annuities were not explained until page 16.
Mr A said he wasnt told about enhanced annuities and the investigator felt that given 
the size of the documentation he may not have noticed the option. It wasnt 
signposted.
The enhanced annuities section didnt mention the specific medical condition that Mr 
A had identified, and so it was understandable that he felt misled.
There was nothing to suggest that enhanced annuities had been discussed in Mr As 
calls with Prudential.
The investigator decided that the complaint should be upheld. She said that Prudential 
should establish whether Mr A was eligible for a higher annuity rate with the open market 
option. If he was, Prudential should compensate him for any past and future loss and pay 
him £300 for the upset caused by its failure to provide the correct information on his 
retirement options.
Prudential didnt agree. It said that the FCA had found its retirement packs to be compliant. 
So, it didnt agree that it did not provide Mr A with sufficient information in the retirement
pack. Although the FCA did find some significant calls with customers to be non-compliant, 
Mr A had two calls and neither of these was significant. These recordings were sent.
On the annuity itself, Prudential said that Mr As annuity plan held a valuable guaranteed 
basic annuity. A calculation was carried out, using the FCA calculator and the medical 
details provided by Mr A. The redress annuity was calculated as £1,605.03 per annum, but 
the actual annuity is £1,848.12 per annum. Therefore, Mr A has not been disadvantaged.
As no agreement was reached the case was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint or make any award. Ive tried to explain to Mr A why 
Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator. Essentially, the calculation Prudential 
has carried out suggests that the annuity Mr A has is more valuable than any enhanced 
annuity he may have been able to achieve in 2011 at his retirement. The difference is 
considerable, and not just a small or marginal benefit.
Therefore, even if Prudential had got things wrong and failed to provide him with clear 
information, in my opinion that didnt make any difference and hasnt caused Mr A any loss. 
Im satisfied that Mr A would have made the same choice that he did make even if he had 
shopped around for an annuity on the open market. I have no doubt that he would have 
selected the higher annuity with Prudential.
In recent years the annuity rates available on the open market have decreased, mainly due 
to low interest rates and increasing life expectancy. These are some of the factors which 
mean that annuity rates that were guaranteed and locked in years ago are now very 
attractive compared to what Mr A could have achieved when he came to retire. The 
calculation Prudential has carried out demonstrates that the guaranteed annuity rate is 
higher than the FCA guidelines for an enhanced annuity that may have been available for Mr 
A.I note there has been some confusion about telephone calls with Mr A from the time the 
annuity was arranged. But theres no suggestion that these calls should have impacted on 
the choices Mr A made. The content of the calls was largely administrative. But in any event, 
the point remains that even if the calls were defective in some way, this hasnt caused Mr A 
any loss. The annuity he has was the better choice for him in any event.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as there is no loss.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman