DRN-3908665
The complaint
Mr B says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by providing him with an 
overdraft facility and allowing him to increase his overdraft limit. Mr B says he had a 
gambling problem and that Lloyds were aware of his vulnerabilities and didnt take relevant 
safeguards to protect him as a customer. 
What happened
In February 2016 Mr B held a bank account with an overdraft facility with Lloyds with a limit 
of £850. Mr B applied online and was approved for an increased limit of £3,500 in July 2016 
which was repaid and removed in September. Mr B applied and was approved for a further 
overdraft in December with a limit of £250 which had increased to £2,500 by April 2017 and 
there were further approved increases following this. Mr Bs overdraft limit was around 
£3,150 in January 2020. 
Mr B complained in February 2022 that Lloyds acted irresponsibly by allowing him to 
increase his overdraft limit. He says Lloyds failed to carry out the appropriate checks and 
that despite being aware of his gambling problem it didnt take the relevant safeguards to 
protect him as a customer. 
Lloyds upheld Mr Bs complaint and agreed it acted irresponsibly by allowing increases in Mr 
Bs overdraft limit from the overdraft review date of 3 July 2018. Prior to this it considered the 
increases in Mr Bs limit affordable. Lloyds agreed to repay all the fees taken from 3 July 
2018 to account closure (amounting to £1,321.01) and arranged for the default of Mr Bs 
overdraft to be backdated to 3 October 2018 and paid Mr B £80 compensation.
Mr B was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and didnt think we could look back 
more than the six years before Mr B raised his complaint. Having looked at how Mr B 
managed his account and overdraft they didnt think Lloyds had acted irresponsibly in 
providing Mr B with an overdraft and increasing his limit prior to July 2018 and didnt think 
the charges Lloyds applied before this date were unfair. They thought the way Lloyds had 
settled Mr Bs complaint was in line with what wed expect and didnt recommend Lloyds do 
anything more. 
Mr B disagreed, he says by 2018 Lloyds knew enough about him to know he was vulnerable 
and thinks Lloyds shouldve taken action sooner.  He doesnt believe the £80 compensation 
paid is enough and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr B raised his complaint in February 2022 in relation to his overdraft dating back to 2015 
when it was first granted. Six years before he raised his complaint is February 2016. And as 
Mr B wouldve been aware of how he was using his overdraft and his limits from when he 
was granted them, I think Mr B ought to have known enough to decide whether it was 
affordable and the charges Lloyds applied were unfair or causing financial difficulty. 
So, I dont think that three years from when he ought to be reasonably aware he had reason 
to complain provides Mr B with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be 
looking at Mr Bs overdraft usage, limit increases and charges applied from February 2016.
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr B has said that he didnt know 
he could complain until recently but Im afraid not knowing you could complain isnt 
considered an exceptional circumstance. So because Mr B didnt refer his complaint earlier 
my decision is that Im unable to look into Mr B complaint about overdraft lending being 
unaffordable and the charges applied to it before February 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only relates to Mr Bs overdraft lending with Lloyds. Any other 
lending is being dealt with in a separate complaint. And as Lloyds upheld Mr Bs complaint 
from 3 July 2018 Ill only be making a findings on the overdraft lending decisions prior to this 
date.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Bs complaint. 
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Lloyds did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Bs overdraft and any increases in his overdraft limit. An overdraft is whats 
known as an open-ended credit facility. This means the checks Lloyds carried out had to 
provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr B would be able to repay his 
overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
As outlined above Mr Bs overdraft limit was increased to £3,500 in June 2016, paid off and 
removed in September and a further overdraft of £250 approved in December which limit 
had increased to £2,500 by April 2017.  Lloyds says all overdraft and limit increase 
applications were fully credit scored taking into account information Mr B provided about his income and how Mr B had managed his accounts held with it, as well as information held by 
other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information 
Lloyds was satisfied it could provide Mr B with the overdraft limits he requested.
Lloyds have provided me with a copy of Mr Bs bank statements for the period in question 
and Ive looked at these carefully. I can see from Mr Bs bank statements that prior to the 
limit increases he was receiving healthy regular credits into his account similar to what was 
declared on his applications for limit increases and for most of the time his account held a 
credit balance. Indeed, Mr B was able to pay off his £3,500 overdraft in a matter of months in 
2016. 
The last limit increase of £2,500 for the period Im looking at I can see from Mr Bs 
statements was in place by April 2017. Mr B says he was a gambling addict and Lloyds were 
fully aware of his vulnerabilities. But Mr Bs statements show that serious gambling only 
really started following this limit increase at the end of June 2017. But following this, I agree 
the statements show large amounts of gambling transactions which brought Mr B to the top 
of his overdraft limit.  
Mr B also says he transferred money into different accounts for gambling including a loan 
from Lloyds. I accept this may well have been the case, but Lloyds would not have known 
what these funds were being used for based on the statements alone and I dont think it 
ought to have caused Lloyds any immediate concerns. And I havent seen any evidence 
Lloyds was made aware of Mr Bs gambling issues before the last limit increase Im looking 
at of £2,500. 
I accept that Mr Bs financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to Lloyds at the time of his 
applications. And it is possible that further checks might have told Lloyds this. But Lloyds 
was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit checks it carried out and the information Mr B 
provided it. So I think Lloydss checks went far enough. 
So I dont agree that Lloyds acted irresponsibly by allowing Mr B an overdraft and agreeing 
to increase his overdraft limit for the period February 2016 to July 2018. And considering the 
credits going into the account I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude Mr 
B would be able to repay the additional funds within a reasonable period of time. 
This means that I dont agree Lloyds provided Mr B with an overdraft unfairly or irresponsibly 
prior to July 2018. That said, even though I dont think Mr Bs overdraft and limit increases 
were approved irresponsibly, Lloyds still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
B if it continued to provide credit to a customer in circumstances where it was aware, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware was no longer sustainable. 
But I dont think I need to make a finding here as Lloyds has already agreed that it acted 
irresponsibly when agreeing further limit increases following a review of Mr B account on 3 
July 2018. At this point it refunded all overdraft charges until the account was closed, 
backdated the default to 3 October 2018 and compensated Mr B £80 which is in line with 
what Id expect. 
So this being the case and in the absence of Mr B giving me a reason to depart from our 
normal approach to putting things right in cases such as his, I think what Lloyds has already 
done is a fair way to settle his complaint and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman