DRN-2473746
The complaint
  Mr W and Mr W1 complain that Equiniti Financial Services Limited failed to register their 
instruction as to the sale on-market of their scrip dividend and that it also didnt pay a 
dividend when it shouldve done.
What happened
  Mr W and Mr W1 hold Crest Depositary Interests (CDIs) within the Iderdrola S.A Corporate 
Nominee Service provided by Equiniti. At the end of 2017 Equiniti wrote to shareholders 
about a new offer of a scrip dividend setting out the options available.
The first option was to sell their rights off-market and receive cash which was also the 
default option. The second option was to sell their rights on-market. Equiniti explained that if 
they had previously selected this option the election had been revoked and they needed to 
provide a new instruction with mandatory information to be provided. This was because of 
the new requirements for transaction reporting by businesses under MiFID II which were 
effective from 3 January 2018. There were two other options which arent relevant to this 
complaint.
Mr W and Mr W1 returned the scrip dividend mandate form (the mandate instruction) within 
the time required having selected the second option  to sell on-market. Equiniti wrote back 
to them on 15 January 2018 saying it hadnt registered their instruction as they hadnt signed 
the form. It enclosed another copy of the form and asked them to return this whilst also 
asking them to provide full names and dates of birth and a National Client Identifier (NCI).
Mr W and Mr W1 returned the mandate instruction but put +21 instead of their dates of birth. 
Equiniti didnt respond to this until a letter dated 15 June 2018 when it wrote stating Mr W 
and Mr W1 hadnt provided their NCIs. It enclosed another form and asked them to provide 
not only their NCIs but also their full names and dates of birth.
Mr W and Mr W1 responded to this on 20 June 2018 pointing out that they had provided 
their NCIs and that they had provided this when they returned the mandate instruction in 
January 2018. They enclosed a further mandate with the NCI for them both stating that they 
had provided all relevant information and they were in compliance with regulations. But they 
again didnt provide their respective dates of birth.
Equiniti wrote back to them again repeating what it had said in the letter of 15 June 2018 
about not providing their NCIs and asking for full names and dates of birth. Mr W and Mr W1 
responded on 20 July 2018 querying why their previous instructions hadnt been acted upon 
and asking why Equiniti wanted the information it had listed as they were in full compliance 
with the appropriate UK regulations and that other providers hadnt required them to provide 
this information.
Equiniti responded on 27 July 2018 and explained that they couldnt register the mandate 
instruction Mr W and Mr W1 had sent because the date of birth of all shareholders hadnt 
been given. Mr W and Mr W1 responded on 6 August 2018, in short stating that the relevant 
regulations only required them to provide their National Insurance numbers, this being the 
relevant NCI for UK citizens.
Equiniti didnt respond to that letter until 17 January 2019, when it reverted to saying they 
hadnt provided an NCI whilst asking for their names and dates of birth. Mr W and Mr W1 
responded on 19 February 2019 setting out their detailed argument as to why they thought 
Equiniti had wrongly not registered their mandate including reference to the what they 
considered were the relevant regulations.
 
This was treated as a complaint and Equiniti provided its response by 13 March 2019. It 
explained that the requirement to provide date of birth was in the same public information 
that Mr W and Mr W1 had referred to in their letter of 19 February 2019  namely Regulatory 
Technical Standards (RTS) 22  in Annex 1, Table 2, Field 20.
There was further correspondence between Mr W and Mr W1 and Equiniti, but no 
agreement was reached. Equiniti did offer £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by it stating in various letters that Mr W and Mr W1 hadnt provided their NCIs. But it didnt 
accept it had done anything wrong in asking for their dates of birth.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, when Mr W and Mr W1 didnt agree with the 
opinion of one of our investigators. I made the following key findings:
I wasnt persuaded that Equiniti had done anything wrong in asking for Mr Ws and 
Mr W1s dates of birth as part of its transaction reporting obligations under MiFID II.
RTS 22 Article 6 states that a natural person shall be identified by a combination of 
the two-letter country code of the persons nationality and the NCI based on that 
nationality - which for the UK is a persons National Insurance Number as shown in 
RTS 22 Annex II, under the heading first-priority identifier.
RTS 22 Article 7 also requires the business to provide the full name and date of birth 
of a client who is a natural person as specified in Annex 1 Table 2. 
Equiniti referred Mr W and Mr W1 to RTS 22 Annex 1 table 2 in its letter of 13 March 
2019 and Table 2 makes clear the fields are mandatory unless stated otherwise.
There is nothing to show Article 7 doesnt need to be applied in addition to the 
information required in Article 6.
Equinitis guidance did only refer to Mr Ws and Mr W1s national insurance numbers 
as being mandatory. However, as they have continued to argue they arent required 
to provide their dates of birth after it has subsequently been made clear they have to 
provide this information, Im not satisfied we wouldnt be in the same position if the 
guidance had been clearer.
Equiniti wrongly stated several times that Mr W and Mr W1 hadnt provided their 
NCIs. However, it made clear in its letter of 27 July 2018 that it hadnt been able to 
register their mandate because it needed their dates of birth, and Mr W and Mr W1 
had no basis for not providing this if they wanted to have their mandate registered. 
Instead they chose to challenge Equiniti about this and have continued to do so.
Equiniti could have provided clearer information, but it didnt provide them with 
incorrect information and Mr W and Mr W1 came to their own, incorrect decision, that 
Equiniti were wrong to ask for their dates of birth.
Equinitis service wasnt what it shouldve been given the generic letters wrongly 
stating the NCIs hadnt been provided, and this wouldve caused some distress and 
inconvenience. However, Mr W and Mr W1 were aware their mandate couldnt be 
registered because they hadnt provided their dates of birth on receipt of the letter of 
27 July 2018. In the circumstances the £150 Equiniti offered for wrongly stating the 
NCIs hadnt been provided was reasonable.The further £75 that the investigator said should be paid for the delays in responding 
to correspondence was reasonable.
Equiniti has provided evidence that the dividend paid to Mr W and Mr W1 on 12 
February 2019 was only officially declared to it on that day and Im not able to say it 
is more likely than not that it delayed payment.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision and providing 
any further information they wanted me to consider.
Mr W and Mr W1 responded and said they didnt agree with my provisional decision. In 
short, they made the following points:
They dont dispute the provisions of MiFID II itself but the implementation of the 
requirements of MiFID II as it relates to them as UK nationals and natural persons.
Delegated Regulation (EU) No.600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 15 May 2014 and Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590 of 28 July 2016 
Articles 6 & 7 are purely draft legislative regulations only binding to the extent as to 
the result to be achieved, and the choice of form and methods of implementation are 
up to national authorities.
The UK parliament prescribed a persons national insurance number to be included 
in transaction reports with no secondary national identifier.
Similarly, RTS 22 Annexes I and II are also merely draft regulatory standards and 
not compelling authority to rely upon.
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/565 of 25 April 2016 Annex IV Section 
2 Record keeping of transactions and order processing stipulates how identification is 
to be recorded and this requires name and designation of client and designation of 
the seller and buyer.
The UK parliament in implementing the Directive has prescribed in law how UK 
nationals and natural persons are to be identified in a transaction report as from 3 
January 2018 and this overrides the EU Directive.
The UK Parliament legislated that only the required identification designation it had 
stipulated must be provided  so the two-letter country code and national insurance 
number.
The guide Equiniti provided correctly stipulated that the above information was the 
only mandatory information required.
Their dates of birth are privileged information and they arent obligated to make 
verification easier for Equiniti.
Equiniti hold more than enough information about them to establish they are who 
they say they are.
They submit that Equiniti are in breach of MiFID II in requiring them to provide more 
than the information stipulated by Parliament  which didnt choose the CONCAT 
code as the designation identifier.
Allowing six days for sterling currency conversion is most unusual, and there should 
be no delay in a Registrars competently managed shareholder services.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I have noted everything that Mr W and Mr W1 have said, but they have provided no new 
evidence or information that would lead me to change the findings of my provisional 
decision.I acknowledge their desire to keep their personal information confidential, and their concerns 
over disclosing such information which I think is understandable. However, I am not satisfied 
that Equiniti was wrong to ask them to provide their dates of birth for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision.
The key issue here is the operation of RTS 22, referred to as MiFID RTS 22 in the 
Handbook of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This is a 
reference to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590 of 28 July 2016, which I will 
continue to refer to as RTS 22. 
Mr W and Mr W1 refer to RTS 22 as being a draft but this is incorrect. The draft was 
submitted by the European Securities and Markets Authority and then adopted by the 
European Commission. This is made clear in the recitals to the regulation, with Article 17 
specifically stating that the regulation applies as from 3 January 2018, and that it is binding 
in its entirety and directly applicable to all member states.  
Mr W and Mr W1 suggest that the regulation is only binding as to the result to be achieved 
and that the choice of form and methods of implementation are up to national authorities. 
But regulations are of direct applicability, so they are binding without the need for any 
domestic legislative intervention  in contrast to EU Directives. The FCAs guide to MiFID II 
provides a useful explanation of this in relation to the relevant parts of MiFID II. 
Mr W and Mr W1 argue that the UK parliament stipulated that clients (who were natural 
persons) only needed to provide their national insurance numbers as the NCI and there is no 
secondary identifier. But, as I have already said, the provisions of RTS 22 are applicable in 
their entirety and providing an NCI is only one part of the requirements of the regulation.
The recitals to RTS 22 include the following:
(7) In order to ensure consistent and robust identification of natural persons referred to in 
transaction reports, they should be identified by a concatenation of their nationality followed 
by identifiers assigned by the country of nationality of those persons. Where those identifiers 
are not available, natural persons should be identified by identifiers created from a 
concatenation of their date of birth and name.
And:
(8) In order to facilitate market surveillance, client identification should be consistent, unique 
and robust. Transaction reports should therefore include the full name and date of birth of 
clients that are natural persons and should identify clients that are legal entities by their 
LEIs.
Article 6 of the regulations is headed Designation to identify natural persons and this is 
what stipulates that a natural person is identified by a concatenation of a countrys two letter 
country code of the nationality of the person followed by the national client identifier listed in 
Annex II based on the nationality of the person  which for UK nationals is shown as the 
national insurance number. Article 6 states that where the identifier is shown as CONCAT 
then a natural person is identified by using a concatenation of the date of birth and first five 
letters of the persons first name and surname. 
Article 7 states:
1. A transaction report relating to a transaction executed on behalf of a client who is a 
natural person shall include the full name and date of birth of the client as specified in Fields 
9, 10, 11, 18, 19 and 20 of Table 2 of Annex I.Table 2 of Annex 1 states that all fields are mandatory unless otherwise stated. Fields 9, 10 
and 11 are buyers first name, surname and date of birth respectively and 18,19, and 20 
mirrors this for sellers.
Given the provisions of RTS 22 I am satisfied that name and date of birth is information that 
a financial firm needs to provide as part of its transaction reporting obligations and that this 
isnt limited to where CONCAT is shown as the identifier in RTS 22 Annex II.
I note that Mr W and Mr W1 have referred to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2017/565 of 25 April 2016. However, I have seen no evidence that this has any bearing on 
the requirements of RTS 22, which came after it.
In the circumstances I am satisfied that it was appropriate for Equiniti to ask Mr W and Mr 
W1 for their dates of birth as part of its transaction reporting obligations and that it did 
nothing wrong in not registering their mandate when this information wasnt provided.
I note what Mr W and Mr W1 have said about the dividend payment in February 2019, but 
they have provided no new evidence that would lead me to find it is more likely than not 
Equiniti delayed payment. I would also repeat what I said in my provisional decision, that it 
isnt clear that any loss was suffered as a result of any delay.
Putting things right
  As I said in my provisional decision, the £150 Equiniti offered for having stated on more 
than one occasion that Mr W and Mr W1 hadnt provided their NCIs (national insurance 
numbers) is reasonable as is the additional £75 the investigator said should be paid for the 
delay in responding to correspondence.
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint to the extent I have explained above and in my provisional decision. 
Equiniti Financial Services Limited must pay Mr W and Mr W1 £75 for distress and 
inconvenience in addition to the £150 it has previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mr W1 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman