DRN-4141394
The complaint
Mr S, in his capacity as the director of a limited company K, complains that PrePay 
Technologies Limited (PPT) wont refund transactions he didnt authorise.
K has an e-money account with Tide which is provided by PPT, and so PPT is the 
respondent business here. For the most part, Ive referred to it for actions of both 
businesses. But where necessary, Ive referred to Tide specifically.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr S was contacted by someone pretending to be from Tide. They told 
him Ks account had been compromised. 
Under the pretext of safeguarding the account, the caller obtained account information from 
Mr S  including a one-time passcode (OTP). Mr S also followed the callers instructions and 
uninstalled the Tide app from his device.
Several days later, when he installed the app again and logged on, Mr S realised money had 
been fraudulently taken from Ks account. The scammer had made more than 50 
transactions, totalling approximately £50,000, during that period through Apple Pay. Mr S 
immediately reported this to Tide through its in-app chat. He also reported the matter to the 
police.
PPT declined to reimburse Ks loss; it said it didnt have compelling evidence to suggest that 
the disputed transactions were done without Mr Ss knowledge or authorisation.
Our investigator didnt agree with PPT that K should be held liable; they werent persuaded 
the transactions were authorised by Mr S. They recommended PPT to refund the 
transactions along with interest and pay £200 compensation. PPT disagreed and the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I requested further information from both parties. Mr S explained why he was unable to 
provide an itemised call log from his mobile network provider showing the scam call and 
forwarded an email from the provider to support this. Although PPT replied, it didnt provide 
all the information I asked for. I issued my provisional decision in April 2023. I said that I 
intended upholding this complaint and set out the following reasoning:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), K isnt liable for 
payments it didnt authorise, unless Mr S (acting on Ks behalf) failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep the account 
security details safe. 
When theres a dispute over whether a payment was authorised, it is for the payment 
service provider (PPT in this case) to prove that the transaction was authenticated 
correctly. Under the PSRs, we also need to consider whether the payment service 
user (here that would be Mr S on behalf of K) gave their consent to it. And consent 
must be in the form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the two 
parties. 
The terms and conditions explain that Mr S can use his card by entering the PIN or 
other security code, or by tapping his card against a contactless enabled reader, or 
via Google Pay when the functionality is made available. Although theres no explicit 
mention of Apple Pay, practically speaking, my understanding is that Mr S could have 
used a payment wallet  including Apple Pay  to make payments.  
I asked PPT to provide evidence of the Apple Pay token registrations for Mr Ss card, 
as well as details of the token and mobile device that was used to make the disputed 
transactions. This information hasnt been forthcoming. As such, I would argue that 
PPT hasnt sufficiently demonstrated that the transactions were authenticated 
correctly. As it hasnt done that, according to the PSRs, the transactions can be 
treated as unauthorised.   
Even if I were to make a finding that the transactions were authenticated  either on 
balance of probabilities or on the provision of the outstanding information request  
Im not satisfied that Mr S gave his consent. I say this because I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence or arguments that it was Mr S who completed the required steps 
for the transactions to happen, or that he consented to someone else doing so. I 
consider it more likely than not  and that is what I must base my decision on in 
situations where I cant know for sure  that Mr S shared information he was sent by 
Tide (i.e., the OTP) with the caller. And it was this information that was used to set up 
an Apple Pay token on another device that enabled the disputed transactions to take 
place without Mr Ss knowledge or consent. 
PPT has argued that theres no evidence Mr S was scammed. It says theres no 
evidence he received a call on the day in question like he claims he did. PPT submits 
that Mr S initially said he hadnt received any suspicious calls that day and had 
provided a screenshot of his phones call log to evidence there were no incoming 
calls. It argues that Mr S has subsequently changed his testimony but has been 
unable to provide any supporting evidence. 
On the point about the change in testimony, Mr S has previously told the investigator 
that at the time of reporting the scam he was still trying to piece together what had 
happened. Hed subsequently remembered receiving a call. That said, when this 
case came to me for a decision, I did share PPTs concerns regarding the lack of 
supporting evidence. Mr S had previously requested an itemised call log from his 
network provider but was told only outbound calls could be provided. Having done 
some research into this, it doesnt look like the provider in question provides details 
of incoming calls as a matter of routine. At my request, Mr S made a subject access 
request to the provider. Ive seen the providers response; it says it can only provide 
a log of outbound calls and it doesnt hold incoming calls data. As this response has 
come directly from the network provider, Im satisfied that Mr S has been honest with 
us about why hes unable to provide the requested information. 
Although theres no explanation for why the screenshot Mr S initially sent to PPT 
doesn't show any incoming calls, the network providers response means that we 
can't say for certain that a call didnt happen. Having weighed up everything, 
including the lengths that Mr S went to in obtaining information from various 
merchants involved to try and recover his funds himself (as evidenced in the chat 
logs with Tide that PPT has provided), on balance, Im more persuaded that Mr S did 
receive a call and that he was scammed. And I think its more likely than not that this is how the scammer was able to register an Apple Pay token on their device to carry 
out the transactions in question.
Notwithstanding that Ive not yet seen evidence that the transactions were 
authenticated correctly, Im not persuaded Mr S consented to them, or gave his 
consent to someone else. So, I find that they were unauthorised.
As I mentioned earlier, Mr S could still be held liable for transactions he didnt 
authorise if he failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the terms of the 
account or keep the account security details safe.
I dont find that Mr S failed with intent to keep his security credentials safe. I say this 
because he believed the information hed been asked to share with the caller was 
necessary to secure Ks account. So, in his mind, he was safeguarding the accounts 
security.
I also dont find that Mr S failed with gross negligence. From what hes described, the 
caller already had some personal information about Mr S when they called him and 
created a sense of panic by telling him there had been an attempt to defraud him. 
The caller gained Mr Ss trust and he truly believed he was speaking to someone 
from his bank who was taking steps to keep his account safe. 
As Mr S was then satisfied that he was communicating with Tide, I can see why he 
complied with the request to provide certain information, including sharing the OTP 
and uninstalling the app from his phone. I think that, under the circumstances, many 
people would have followed the instructions and complied with what they were being 
asked. Especially in the context of (in their mind) protecting their money from 
fraudsters. Indeed, weve seen many others whove acted in the same way that Mr S 
did.
Ive noted that theres a warning in the text containing the OTP that says not to share 
it with anyone, and that Tide would never ask for it. But it looks like Mr S was acting 
quickly, so I can see how he may have missed this and focused more on the 
instructions he was given from someone who he thought was trying to help. Its easy 
to be critical of Mr Ss actions with the benefit of hindsight. But Ive considered he 
was acting in the heat of the moment, thinking he was speaking with his genuine 
bank and that something was wrong with Ks account. I dont think Mr Ss actions in 
that moment mean that he seriously disregarded an obvious risk. 
PPT has questioned why it took Mr S several days to re-install the Tide app. It argues 
that its unusual he didnt think it necessary to check his account during that time, 
given there was a large credit of nearly £12,000 into Ks account. Mr S has told us he 
doesnt use the account that frequently, and this can be seen from the statements. 
Under the circumstances, I dont find it unreasonable that Mr S didnt install the app 
for a period of several days. As for the credit, it wasnt a one-off transaction  the 
statements show credits from that account for similar amounts every other month. 
Given that it was a fairly regular credit, I dont consider it unusual if Mr S didnt think it 
was necessary to check his account like PPT argues he should have.     
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr S showed a very significant degree of carelessness 
such that I think he acted with gross negligence. I recognise that PPT had some 
concerns after Mr S subsequently reported receiving a call from someone pretending 
to be from Tide. Regardless, I find that it ought to have refunded Ks loss much 
sooner  and I recognise the inconvenience thats been caused to K by not having this money back quicker. So, in line with the investigators recommendation, I also 
intend awarding £200 to reflect Ks non-financial losses.
I invited further comments from both parties.
Mr S said that although his phone provider didnt provide inbound call data as part of the 
subject access request, he was informed that it could be provided if the request came from 
the police. He also said that the only credits received in Ks account were from a particular 
company, with whom he had a close working relationship. Therefore, there was no reason 
for him to be concerned about being paid. 
PPT made several comments which it has asked me to consider. Ive summarised these 
below:
The decision revolves around the fact that Mr S didnt take the necessary steps to 
initiate the payment and didnt consent to anyone else doing so. PPT argues that 
disclosing the OTP is the necessary authorisation to add a new device to Apple Pay 
and without this the card cant be activated on a payment wallet.
Providing the OTP to a third party is a breach of Tides terms and conditions and can 
be considered as disregarding a red flag.
The comments in the decision (relating to Mr Ss actions) are very opinionated and 
its easy to make them with the benefit of hindsight. But PPT couldnt have been 
aware that Mr S was being scammed at the time.
PPT has been asked to pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience, but 
a business cant suffer distress or inconvenience.
The log-in IP addresses for February and March 2022, when the disputed 
transactions took place, show that the same device model was in use for the whole 
period. And the same device accessed the Tide app from different IP addresses, one 
of which PPT has assumed was Mr Ss home or business WiFi. It has questioned the 
likelihood that Mr Ss phone and the fraudsters phone were of the same make and 
model. And why would the fraudster have used Mr Ss home or business WiFi unless 
they had legitimate access to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their response to my provisional decision which Ive carefully 
considered. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I dont 
think its necessary for me to address every point that PPT has made, but Ill address the key 
comments.
To consider the payments authorised, the PSRs explain that Mr S must have given his 
consent to the execution of the payment transactions  and that consent must be in the form, 
and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between him and Tide. Theres no other 
plausible or persuasive explanation for how someone could have finished setting up Apple 
Pay without Mr Ss involvement. But thats not to say that he understood what his actions 
meant. Given our experience with dealing with similar scams, I find it more likely that he was 
tricked into taking the steps. 
But even with the conclusion that Mr S must have been involved, Im not persuaded the 
disputed transactions were authorised. Thats because Im not convinced the steps to set up 
Apple Pay are the same as the steps to consent to the execution of a payment, which is what the PSRs require. After all, its not possible to make a payment by simply having Apple 
Pay  the PIN or biometrics must have been used again on the device with the Apple Pay 
token to approve the payment. I note that PPT still hasnt provided evidence of the Apple 
Pay token registrations for Mr Ss card, as well as details of the token and mobile device that 
was used to make the disputed transactions. 
As for PPTs point that it couldnt have been aware that Mr S was being scammed, what Ive 
needed to decide here is whether the transactions were authorised. Given Ive concluded 
that the transactions werent authorised, PPTs duty of care in protecting Mr S from financial 
harm is not a consideration in my decision. Accordingly, I havent commented or made a 
finding on whether it ought to have realised that something might have gone wrong.   
PPT has questioned the compensation I said I intend to award. I want to make it absolutely 
clear that in my provisional decision, I havent made any reference to the compensation 
being for distress and inconvenience like PPT has suggested. Im well aware that this 
complaint relates to a business account and the eligible complainant here is a limited 
company which is a legal entity separate to the person running it. 
It is true that a legal entity cant experience distress, pain or suffering. And so, our service 
cant make an award for distress in that situation. But an error made by the firm that the 
complaint relates to could affect the legal entitys operations or reputation. We can and we 
do consider whether an award for inconvenience or damage to reputation would be 
appropriate when were investigating complaints from a customer that is itself a business. 
More information on the different types of awards our service can make can be found on our 
website. In relation to this complaint, I explained in my provisional decision why I consider 
PPTs actions have inconvenienced K, and why £200 compensation is warranted.
Finally, Ive considered PPTs arguments in relation to IP addresses, devices, and logins. Im 
not sure how the arguments are relevant to the complaint Im deciding. Essentially, PPT 
submits that the Tide app logins (and therefore access to the app) during February and 
March 2022 couldnt have been carried out by anyone other than Mr S or someone with his 
permission. I dont necessarily disagree with that. But the transactions werent carried out in 
the app  an Apple Pay token was used. As Ive mentioned, I tried to establish whether the 
Apple Pay token that was used to make these transactions was registered to Mr Ss phone. 
But despite giving PPT ample opportunity, the information hasnt been forthcoming. 
I think its also important to note that there were no logins during the period that the disputed 
transactions happened. So, its not the case that Mr S accessed the app during that time and 
ought to have noticed the transactions.   
Overall, having considered the additional responses, I havent found any reason to depart 
from outcome I reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right, PrePay Technologies Limited needs to:
reimburse K all the transactions disputed by Mr S (less any amount recovered, if 
applicable);
pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount, from the date of the transaction to 
the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible); and 
pay £200 compensation for the inconvenience experienced by K.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require PrePay 
Technologies Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S (in his 
capacity as the director of K) to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman