DRN-2828508
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Lowell Financial Ltd recorded arrears on his credit file.
What happened
This complaint is about a personal loan debt which Lowell bought in late 2018.
At the time, Mr S had arrears with the original lender of around £190. These arrears carried 
over when Lowell bought the debt, but Mr S says he didnt know that was how it worked and 
hed thought that he effectively had a new credit agreement.
Mr S arranged to pay Lowell £35 a month, which was £1.27 more than the contractual 
minimum payment. So he was paying towards the arrears, but only by a small amount. He 
kept up his payments to Lowell, and says they didnt tell him he was still in arrears.
In 2020, Mr S applied for credit but found he could only get accepted at a higher interest 
rate. He says he then discovered that Lowell had been reporting his account as being in 
arrears for the last two years. Mr S felt this wasnt fair as hed kept up his payment 
arrangement, paid more than the minimum, and the statements hadnt mentioned arrears.
Mr S also said that a Lowell staff member hadnt been aware of the arrears when hed 
called. And he said Lowell had recorded him as having 5 months worth of arrears when the 
original lender had said he only had 3 months of arrears.
Mr S complained. He asked for Lowell to rewrite his credit file entries to say he was up to 
date with payments, or to write off the debt as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that it wasnt a new credit agreement and the arrears had carried over, so Lowell 
had reported things correctly. 
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr S and Lowell a provisional decision on 3 May 2021, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I should explain that when Lowell bought the debt, it wasnt a new credit agreement  
its just that the debts owner changed. So things like the arrears and terms stayed the same. 
I do appreciate that Mr S thought otherwise, and I can understand his thinking  but I cant 
see that Lowell misled him about this or gave him the impression that it was a whole new 
agreement. And the arrears were genuine  these were payments that Mr S really did miss. 
Mr S has been doing the right thing by paying more than his minimum payment to Lowell, 
but because hes only been overpaying by £1.27 a month it means the arrears have only 
been going down very slowly.
Ive looked at the history of Mr Ss debt, and I can see that he was indeed in 5 months worth 
of arrears when the debt was sold to Lowell. Im not sure why the original lender might have 
said it was only 3 months arrears, and that might be something Mr S wants to take up with 
them if they gave incorrect information. But Im reasonably satisfied that Lowell reported the 
arrears correctly on his credit file.
With that said, I do see Mr Ss point about Lowell not making things clear. Ive looked at the 
correspondence Lowell sent Mr S, from their initial contact to the copy statements he 
provided, and I cant see that Lowell made it clear that he was still in arrears or how much 
the arrears were. 
Further, Mr S says that Lowells own staff appeared to be unaware of the arrears when he 
phoned them. The call notes appear to confirm that they told Mr S he was actually up to date 
with everything, and Lowell seem to have accepted that they were unclear.
Taken together with the written correspondence, I dont think Lowell made it sufficiently clear 
to Mr S what his arrears status was.
The question, then, is what might have changed if Lowell had made Mr Ss arrears status 
clear at the time. First, I have borne in mind that Mr S wouldve already known he had 
arrears with the original lender before the debt was sold on. Then according to the 
affordability checks Lowell did and the information Mr S gave them, he only had about £40 
left over each month  hence his offer of £35/month. So he couldnt afford to pay much more 
than what he was already paying. And even after Mr S was made fully aware of the arrears, 
he didnt increase his payments or make any extra payments to help bring those arrears 
down faster. So the evidence suggests to me that even if Lowell had made things clearer, 
Mr S wouldnt have been able to clear the arrears by now in any case.
However, I understand it would have been a real shock for Mr S to have been confronted 
with the arrears if Lowell hadnt made them clear and hed mistakenly thought they didnt 
exist anymore. I understand this issue has caused Mr S a good deal of stress and upset, and 
so I think it would be fair for Lowell to pay him £150 compensation to acknowledge their 
mistake and the impact it had.
Ive also thought about how it would be best for Lowell to report Mr Ss payments on his 
credit file. As Ive explained above, I dont think Lowell were necessarily incorrect or wrong to 
report Mr S as being in arrears. However, they could have reported him as being in an 
arrangement to pay. This could potentially be looked at more favourably by lenders, as it 
would signify that Mr S had been keeping up with an arrangement and making efforts to pay 
off his debt, and had not simply let the arrears sit unpaid. So I think Lowell should change 
Mr Ss arrears markers into arrangement to pay markers for the months hes been keeping 
up his arrangement, to better reflect whats been happening.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reply to the provisional decision, Mr S said he was pleased with the outcome. Lowell 
made some further comments, which Ill talk about.
Lowell said they appreciated Mr S had been misled over the phone, but felt the award of 
compensation was disproportionate as hed been made fully aware of why the missed 
payment markers were showing.
I do understand Lowells point of view. But as I explained in the provisional decision, I dont 
think it was made clear to Mr S what the status of his account was. And I think that the 
phone call would have only added to that confusion.
Ive also taken into account that, as a consequence, it would have been rather distressing 
indeed for Mr S to then learn that his account wasnt doing nearly as well as hed thought  
not least when Lowell had even told him that he was up to date with everything.
Ive thought carefully about the amount of compensation to award. We have guidelines about 
whats appropriate, and I need to be consistent with that. I think this situation fits into our 
moderate bracket  which is for compensation of up to £500. In the context of this case, 
I think that £150 is appropriate for Lowell to pay and is not disproportionate to our normal 
award levels  though I appreciate they may disagree with me on this.
Lowell agreed to mark that Mr S had been in an arrangement to pay, though they clarified 
that the arrears wouldnt disappear, since they were valid. Per the provisional decision I do 
agree that the arrears were valid, and that Lowell reported the correct amount of arrears. To 
clarify, the arrears wont disappear, but I think the arrangement to pay markers will better 
reflect that Mr S has been keeping up with an arrangement to clear his debt and was not 
simply letting the arrears go unaddressed. In terms of the dates involved, I can see that 
Lowell confirmed the arrangement for £35/month in their letter of December 2018, and that 
Mr S started paying the arrangement in January 2019.
Putting things right
I direct Lowell Financial Ltd to:
Adjust Mr Ss credit file to use arrangement to pay markers for the months where he 
has been keeping up with his payment arrangement, and-
Pay Mr S £150 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Lowell Financial Ltd to put things right in the way I set 
out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman