DRN-3874607
The complaint
Ms T complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) informed her she only paid £2,500 into her 
credit card account, despite the fact she held a bank stamped receipt for £3,000 and it has 
unfairly debited her credit card account with the difference.
What happened
Ms T says she visited a branch of HSBC on 1 October 2021 and paid £3,000  in cash into 
her credit card account. Ms T says she then heard from HSBC on 23 December 2021 to say 
her credit card account had been adjusted to reflect the fact she had only paid in £2,500. Ms 
T says has a stamped bank receipt for £3,000 for the deposit she made and is insistent this 
is the amount she paid in. Ms T says HSBC have applied interest and charges to her credit 
card account and wants HSBC to recredit her credit card account with £500. Ms T says 
HSBC have also reduced her credit limit to £2,000 which she wants restored back to the 
previous limit of £4,000.
HSBC says its cashier advised Ms T at the time she had only paid in £2,500 but had 
forgotten to amend the credit slip. 
Ms T wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt HSBC acted unfairly when it adjusted Ms Ts credit card account, given she 
had provided evidence by way of a stamped receipt to show she had deposited £3,000. The 
investigator felt it was the responsibility of the branch staff to count the money correctly and 
provide an accurate receipt. The investigator felt HSBC should recredit Ms Ts credit card 
account with £500, remove all interest and charges due to the non-payment of the 
outstanding £500 and pay Ms T £75 for the trouble and upset caused. 
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint but with a slightly different outcome to 
the investigator. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Ms T to learn the cash she 
had paid into her credit card account had been adjusted by £500, despite the fact she had a 
stamped bank receipt.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC acted fairly when it adjusted Ms Ts 
credit card account to reflect the fact it felt she had only paid £2,500 into her account and not 
£3,000 as her stamped bank receipt showed. 
Ms Ts complaint centres around the fact she paid in £3,000 in cash at a local HSBC branch 
into her credit card account with them and has a stamped receipt for that sum, but HSBC 
have told her many weeks later, the deposit was for only £2,500 and have adjusted her 
account accordingly. In addition, Ms T says HSBC have unfairly applied interest and charges 
to her credit card account and she feels it has also reduced her credit card limit as a result of 
this. 
HSBC says the branch cashier initially advised Ms T when she deposited the cash to her 
credit card account, the amount was £2,500 but forgot to amend the credit paying in slip and 
receipt. HSBC says it has correctly charged late payment fees and interest on the credit card 
account and the credit limit reduction has nothing to do with this complaint. 
I have considered what HSBC have said here and its later comments suggesting the 
stamped bank receipt for £3,000 wasnt sufficient evidence on its own, to confirm Ms T had 
paid in £3,000 in cash that day, but Im not fully persuaded by its argument. 
Its worth saying Ms T paid in the cash to her credit card account at a branch of HSBC on 1 
October 2021, but the adjustment to that cash deposit wasnt made until 23 December 2021. 
With that in mind it seems unlikely that a cashier having realised on the day of the deposit 
the amount was incorrect, not only failed to then amend the bank giro credit and the 
stamped receipt, HSBC themselves didnt pick up on the error until 12 weeks later. 
With that in mind Im satisfied in all likelihood given the amount of time that had passed, I 
cant see how HSBC would be able to attribute any cash discrepancies at its branch to that 
particular transaction. Afterall the receipt and the credit suggest the deposit was correct. It 
would be the responsibility of the cashier to correctly count the cash deposited and if an 
error was noticed, for the deposit slip and stamped receipt to be changed in front of the 
customer at that time. 
Ms T is adamant the deposit was correct and has a stamped receipt reflecting that and 
although HSBC have suggested that isnt sufficient evidence to support Ms Ts cash deposit 
made that day, Im not sure what other evidence Ms T could possibly provide. 
Its fair to say I have to make a decision based on what, in all probability happened that day 
and based on the evidence provided to me - on balance Im satisfied Ms T did in all 
likelihood pay in £3,000 that day.
With that in mind I propose HSBC now adjusts Ms Ts credit card account reflecting £3,000 
was paid in on 1 October 2021 and any interest and charges applied as a result of the 
previous adjustment are refunded. Additionally, if HSBC have marked any adverse entries to 
Ms Ts credit file, these should be removed after all these have been marked as a result of 
the consequences of the adjustment in December 2021. I would also propose HSBC pay Ms 
T £150 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused. 
With regards to the credit limit being reduced, I cant see that this complaint has been made 
directly for HSBC to consider by Ms T, but its fair to say theres no evidence to suggest the 
credit limit has been reduced as a direct result of this matter, and HSBC are at liberty to 
amend customers credit limits after review, from time to time if it so wishes. While HSBC will 
be disappointed with my provisional decision I feel this is a fair outcome here.
Ms T hasnt made any further comments regarding my provisional decision, but I have now 
heard back from HSBC, so the case has been passed back to me to make a final decision.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Ms T and HSBC until 22 December 2022 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision.
HSBC, while accepting my provisional decision have asked for evidence from Ms T as to the 
origins of the funds she paid into her credit card account that day, to prove she did pay in 
£3,000. As I have stated in my provisional decision, the only evidence needed by Ms T here 
is the cashiers stamped receipt and its not reasonable for me to ask Ms T for any further 
evidence than that. 
With that in mind I see no need to change or alter my provisional decision and so my final 
decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to adjust Ms Ts credit card account to reflect that £3,000 was 
paid in on 1 October 2021 and any interest and charges applied as a result of the previous 
adjustment, are refunded. 
Additionally, if HSBC have marked any adverse entries to Ms Ts credit file these should be 
removed. I also instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Ms T £150 by way of compensation for 
the trouble and upset it has caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to adjust Ms Ts credit card account to reflect that £3,000 was 
paid in on 1 October 2021 and any interest and charges applied as a result of the previous 
adjustment, are refunded. Additionally, if HSBC have marked any adverse entries to Ms Ts 
credit file these should be removed. I also instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Ms T £150 by 
way of compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman