DRN-4226911
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) rejected 
a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L took out an Elite pet insurance policy for her pet dog in August 2019. 
In October 2021 when her pet was experiencing vomiting and diarrhoea she took it to the vet 
for treatment and then made a claim for treatment costs but C&G said the treatment costs 
were not covered. 
C&G said Mrs Ls pet had been suffering the with same problems before the policy started 
so this was a pre-existing condition and the policy excluded claims for pre-existing 
conditions. It also said if Mrs L had disclosed the previous conditions it would have added an 
exclusion for the digestive system so it would now add that exclusion from the start of the 
policy, and a claim for gastroenteritis would be caught by this. 
Mrs L complained but C&G maintained its position so she referred the complaint to this 
service.
Our investigators initial view was that the claim wasnt covered by the policy but after 
considering further information from Mrs L and from the treating vet she concluded that it 
wasnt fair to reject the claim. She asked C&G to remove the exclusion it had added for the 
digestive system and said it should not treat the condition as pre-existing and should pay the 
claim.
C&G has accepted that it wasnt fair to add the exclusion for the digestive system and 
agreed to remove this, but says this was a pre-existing condition and so does not agree the 
claim should be paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
C&G agreed to remove the exclusion it added relating to the digestive system and I 
understand the policy is no longer in force in any event. So theres no further action needed 
in relation to this issue and I dont need to make any further comment on that. I need to 
decide whether its fair for C&G to decline Mrs Ls claim on the basis that what she claimed 
for is a pre-existing condition. 
The policy provides cover for vets fees but theres an exclusion for any claim for any illness 
that relates to a pre-existing condition, which is defined as any diagnosed or undiagnosed 
Condition and/or Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or 
Symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
The definition is quite wide and on the face of it, if theres any connection between the 
condition being claimed for and something that was present or showing signs or symptoms 
before the policy started, its not covered. But when relying on an exclusion to decline a 
claim, the onus is on C&G to show the exclusion applies. 
The clinical notes show Mrs Ls pet was seen by vets five times before the policy started for 
issues relating to vomiting and diarrhoea. And her pet had more problems after the policy 
started. I appreciate the symptoms were similar. But the key point to consider is whether 
these were signs or symptoms of a related issue. If the issues were not connected or if, at 
the point when she took out the policy, Mrs L wasnt aware her pet had an existing issue that 
was likely to need further treatment, it wouldnt be fair to exclude a claim at a later date.
Mrs Ls vet has advised that:
The pet had been treated five times before the policy started.
Her pet needed further treatment after the policy started but this time the clinical 
signs were different  a much quieter, sicker dog  and he was anorexic, making 
them suspect pancreatitis. 
In her professional opinion she does not believe the later episode is related to the 
previous incidences of gastritis/gastroenteritis.
Dogs can have vomiting and diarrhoea for a wide variety of reasons and neither 
pancreatitis nor inflammatory bowel disease was a pre-existing condition when the 
policy started.
Mrs L and her vet have pointed out there was a claim in 2020 and, although C&G initially 
rejected that claim it later accepted it after the vet explained the position. 
C&G has referred to a later diagnosis of an inflammatory bowel disease and says this was 
likely present throughout. I appreciate C&Gs view that the symptoms were similar 
throughout. But the treating vet has said very clearly the issues are not related. In the 
absence of any veterinary advice contradicting that advice, I think its more likely the 
condition being claimed for is not related to the issues seen before the policy started. In 
these circumstances it wouldnt be fair to treat this as a pre-existing condition, in which case 
the claim should be covered.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd:
not to apply the exclusion for pre-existing conditions; and
to pay the claim, subject to the excess and remaining policy terms.
If Mrs L has paid the vets fees, Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
should also pay 8% simple interest from the date she paid the fees to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman