DRN-3269765
The complaint
Mrs P complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined part of her claim against her 
medical insurance policy.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in January 2020, Mrs Ps optician referred her to a surgeon in 
relation to reduced vision in her right eye which he thought may be caused by ptosis  
drooping of the upper eyelid. Mrs P contacted AXA which authorised an initial 
consultation with a consultant and diagnostic tests. AXA said that it would require certain 
further information and documentation before approval of further treatment. 
In July 2020, Mrs P saw a consultant who diagnosed bilateral involutional ptosis and 
recommended bilateral ptosis surgery. Mrs P sent AXA the documentation it had asked 
for. 
AXA authorised the claim in relation to Mrs Ps right eye but declined the claim relating to 
her left eye. It said that its clinical adviser had reviewed the matter and didnt see 
reference to any kind of functional issue in relation to Mrs Ps left eye, so there wasnt an 
active medical illness, injury or disease in relation to Mrs Ps left eye at that point. AXA 
said that it didnt decline this part of Mrs Ps claim based on medical necessity. 
I understand that Mrs P had bilateral ptosis surgery in July 2020. She pursued her 
complaint in relation to AXAs refusal to cover her claim in relation to her left eye. Mrs P 
says that in the six months between the initial referral in January 2020 and the 
consultation with the consultant in July 2020, her left eye was also causing her problems. 
She doesnt understand how AXA reached the conclusion it did based on photographs 
as its clinical adviser didnt examine her. Mrs P wants AXA to reimburse her costs in 
relation to her left eye. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mrs P unfairly or unreasonably. Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. She 
says that the treatment to her left eye was medically necessary and she doesnt 
understand how it can be seen as preventative. Mrs P asked that an ombudsman 
consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs P has strong feelings about this matter. Shes 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully 
and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that Mrs P wont take as 
a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are the central issues in the case.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which 
provide as follows: 
What is eligible treatment?
Your policy covers eligible treatment. We consider treatment of a medical condition to 
be eligible when:
[]
it is not preventive
[]
it is not provided or used primarily for the convenience, financial or 
other advantage of you, your specialist or other health professional.
A medical condition is defined as any disease, illness or injury []
Will my policy cover me for preventive treatment?
No, these policies are designed to provide cover for necessary treatment of disease, 
illness or injury. Therefore, we do not pay for preventive treatment [].
6.2 What we do not pay for:
[...]
(k) Preventive treatment.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint because I dont think that AXA treated her unfairly. I say 
that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
In its final response to Mrs P, AXA said that there wasnt an active medical illness, 
injury or disease in relation to Mrs Ps left eye. And in response to subsequent 
medical evidence dated 24 November 2021 provided by Mrs P, it said that the 
surgery in relation to Mrs Ps left eye was preventative. So, the central question for 
me to decide is whether AXA treated Mrs P unfairly or unreasonably in coming to 
those views.
My role isnt to substitute the medical judgment of any of the medical professionals 
involved in the case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence Ive 
been provided with to decide whether I think AXA handled Mrs Ps claim fairly and 
reasonably. In initially determining Mrs Ps claim, AXA engaged its clinical adviser, which is 
what wed expect it to do. The clinical adviser considered the original referral letter, 
the photographs provided by the consultant and the consultants letter following his 
initial consultation with Mrs P in July 2020. I think that AXA was entitled to rely on 
its clinical advisers view that there wasnt an active medical illness, injury or 
disease in relation to Mrs Ps left eye. Thats because the photographs showed that 
Mrs Ps left pupil wasnt covered by her eyelid. And in the July 2020 letter, the 
consultant didnt mention loss of vision in the left eye. I dont think that AXA acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in concluding that Mrs Ps claim in relation to her left eye 
didnt relate to a medical condition, as defined by the policy. 
The clinical adviser subsequently reviewed matters after receipt of the letter dated 
November 2021 from Mrs Ps consultant and concluded that the surgery to Mrs Ps 
left eye was preventative. That was because the consultant said that one of the 
reasons for surgery to the left eye was because surgery to the right eye would 
cause further drooping of the left eyelid. I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on 
its clinical advisers view and conclude that the surgery to Mrs Ps left eye was 
preventative and therefore excluded under the policy. 
AXA has said that its decision to decline the claim isnt based on medical 
necessity. Its clear that Mrs Ps consultant had good reasons for proceeding as he 
did. And I can quite understand that Mrs P would wish to have surgery to both eyes 
as the same time. But that doesnt mean that bilateral ptosis surgery is covered by 
the policy in the circumstances that arose here. 
Considering everything, I dont think that AXA treated Mrs P unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining the part of her claim that related to her left eye. So, I 
dont uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.  
Louise Povey
Ombudsman