DRN-2261999
The complaint
Mr W and Ms A complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy following curtailment of their trip. Reference to AXA includes reference to its 
agents. 
What happened
On 30 September 2019, Mr W and Ms A bought a backpacker travel insurance policy from 
AXA. The period of cover under the policy was 30 September 2019 to 29 April 2020. On     
30 September 2019, Mr W and Ms A started their backpacking trip. At the outset, their 
intended return date was 29 April 2020. 
In February 2020, whilst on the trip, Mr W and Ms A booked one-way flights for                   
20 March 2020 to a new destination. They also booked a four-day yoga retreat at the new 
destination.  
On 15 March 2020, Mr W and Ms A decided to curtail their trip. On 15 or 16 March 2020,   
Ms A contacted the booking agent for the yoga retreat and cancelled the booking. The 
provider didnt agree to a refund but offered credit for a future booking, which wasnt        
time-limited. The booking agent also offered a 10% discount on a future booking. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad because of covid-19 (coronavirus). On 23 March 2020, the FCO 
advised all UK tourists abroad to return home. Mr W and Ms A curtailed their trip and 
returned to the UK on 26 March 2020.    
I understand that Mr W and Ms A applied for a refund from the airline in relation to flight 
costs and that they have no further claim in relation to that cost. Mr W and Ms A made an 
unsuccessful chargeback request to their card provider in relation to the yoga retreat. They 
then made a claim against their travel insurance policy.  
AXA declined their claim. It said that the policy only covers non-refundable costs and, as 
they have been offered a voucher, they hadnt suffered any financial loss. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr W and Ms As claim. 
Mr W and Ms A didnt agree with the investigator. Mr W said that the investigators view is 
contingent on them being able to travel almost half way around the world to make use of the 
voucher. He said that its wrong and unjust that AXA rejected their claim on the basis that 
theyve been offered a voucher, rather than no refund at all. 
Mr W said that the investigator failed to appreciate possible change in circumstances which 
may mean that using the voucher isnt a reasonable option for them in the future. He said 
that he wont use the voucher and sees no situation when it will be feasible for him to do so. 
Mr W asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
Curtailment only
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only 
of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any 
reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if the trip is curtailed before completion as a 
result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth (FCO) or other regulatory 
authority in the country you are in recommending evacuation from the country or specific 
areas you have travelled to providing the advice came into force after you left the United 
Kingdom to commence the trip. 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr W and Ms As complaint because I dont think that AXA treated them 
unfairly. I say that because:
Mr W and Ms A were already abroad when things changed. Their trip planned for 20 
March 2020  - the next leg of their journey - couldnt go ahead, as it was after the 
FCO advice on 17 March 2020 against all but essential travel abroad. Mr W and     
Ms A curtailed their four-day trip just before the FCO advice, but I dont think that 
alters the outcome here. 
In order for their claim to be successful, Mr W and Ms A must show that the costs for 
which they claim are irrecoverable. I dont think that theyve done that here. Thats 
because the provider of the yoga retreat offered credit for a future booking with no 
expiry date. 
I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to conclude, in effect, that Mr W and Ms A 
have recovered their losses in relation to the yoga retreat. I note what Mr W says 
about possible changes in circumstances in the future which may mean its not 
reasonable for them to use the credit  - possible lack of means to travel or a future 
change in domestic circumstances. But I think that those matters are too speculative 
to change the outcome here. 
I appreciate that future travel plans are uncertain for everyone. But I dont think that 
means that the offer from the provider of the yoga retreat has no value. The offer isnt 
time-limited. I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that travel to the intended 
destination will be possible in the future, although I appreciate that Mr W and Ms A 
may prefer not to use whats been offered.  
Considering everything, I think it was reasonable for AXA to decline Mr W and Ms As 
claim as their unused accommodation and other charges are not irrecoverable.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr W and Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman