DRN-3410309
The complaint
Mr K complains that Motability Operations Limited refused to freeze the monthly payments 
taken from DWP for his car to cover the period when he was advised to self-isolate.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I appreciate that Mr K didnt make use of the car due to him being advised to self-isolate 
during the Covid pandemic, but that does not mean that the business should refund the 
money it received from the government to fund the hire of a car for Mr K. I understand he is 
entitled to mobility payments from the government and these were paid direct to Motability to 
cover the cost of the hire of the car. Motability has explained that the terms and conditions of 
the contract do not allow for these sums to be frozen or refunded. 
It has explained that it offered Mr K alternatives such as allowing to hand the car back early 
since he was unable to make use of it and to pay a good condition bonus in advance of the 
return of the car. It also offered to add another driver who was able to make use of the car.  
However, he didnt consider these to be helpful and has explained there wasnt anybody he 
wanted to be able to drive the car.
I have every sympathy with Mr K, but to be able to uphold his complaint I have to identify 
something which Motability did wrong and I am unable to do so. It wasnt obliged to forgo the 
monthly payments. Mr K retained the car even if he was not making use of it and that meant 
Motability was entitled to be paid for the provision of the asset. If it had offered Mr K a freeze 
or a refund it would have been offed a goodwill gesture. I cannot require the business to 
make such gestures where it has not done anything wrong. 
I consider it made fair and reasonable offers to Mr K which he didnt find suitable, but that 
does not mean Motability was obliged to provide him with what he wanted. The business 
wasnt responsible for Mr K having to self-isolate and it is not obliged to waive the terms of 
the contract because of the Covid guidance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman