DRN-3053916
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd cancelled his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
On 17 November 2020 Mr A purchased a motor insurance policy online through a price 
comparison website. The policy documents were sent to the registered address the same 
day.
 
On 19 November 2020 the broker wrote to Mr A at the registered address asking for 
information that had been requested by Accredited Insurance so they could verify Mr As 
identity. The letter detailed the information required and asked Mr A to provide it within 
14 days of the letter. 
As the information hadnt been received a further letter was sent to Mr A on 3 December 
2020. It provided seven days notice of cancellation and explained the policy was to be 
cancelled on 10 December 2020.
On 10 December 2020 a letter confirming cancellation of the policy was sent by post and a 
pro-rata refund provided.
On 22 December 2020 Mr A complained to the broker, he said he wasnt at his registered 
address at the time and felt they should have emailed him also. The broker advised as it was 
a validation request they were required to write to the registered address as that provides a 
form of validation in itself. They also advised if Mr A could provide all the required 
documents, they could pass them onto Accredited Insurance and see if they would revoke 
the cancellation.
On 27 April 2021 Mr A provided the requested information to the broker for them to pass 
onto Accredited Insurance. He explained the delay was due to him having to wait for the 
logbook to arrive. Mr A wanted Accredited Insurance to remove the policy cancellation from 
his record. But Accredited Insurance never responded to this.
Mr A referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think Accredited Insurance 
had been unfair when cancelling the policy. As Mr A remained unhappy his concerns have 
been passed to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr A's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome hed hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
It isnt unusual for insurers to ask for further information from customers when accepting new 
business. Soon after the sale the underwriter requested documentation to validate Mr As 
identity including validation of his address. The broker wrote to Mr A at his registered 
address two days after the purchase to request this information to be sent to them within 
14 days. As well as specifying the information required, in the letter it also said:
Please note that you need to send us all of the requested documentation within the 
specified timeframe. If we dont receive all the information from you we may have to cancel 
your insurance policy.
The policy documents sent to Mr A on the day of purchase also included details around 
cancellation. It explained:
We may cancel your policy by sending you, or the broker sending you, 7 days notice to 
your last known address or email address, if we have a good reason to cancel your policy
So, they were clear about the implications of Mr A not providing the required information and 
their cancellation process.
Mr A has said Accredited Insurance cancelled his policy without informing him as he wasnt 
at the address at the time the letters were sent as he had Covid. He thinks they should have 
sent an email. 
The terms of the policy state that if they cancel the policy they will provide seven days notice 
to your last known address or email address.
An information request was sent two days after the inception of the policy to the address 
Mr A provided as his contactable address. There wasnt any information provided to the 
broker or Accredited Insurance to indicate Mr A wasnt going to be contactable at that 
address. 
They also sent seven days notice to the registered address that had been given to them by 
Mr A just a few weeks earlier. Given that they were clear about the ways they may contact 
Mr A in the terms and that they were looking to verify Mr As identity, in this particular case, I 
dont think it was unreasonable of them to have written to Mr A as they were looking to use 
this in itself as a form of verification. 
I understand the reason Mr A said he wasnt at home. But when he got in touch shortly after 
the cancellation, the broker suggested Mr A provided the documents and they would pass 
them onto Accredited Insurance to see if they would be willing to revoke the cancellation. 
Mr A provided the documents to the broker around four months after the cancellation, these 
were passed onto Accredited Insurance, but they didnt respond. Given the time the policy 
had been cancelled for I dont think its unreasonable Accredited Insurance didnt take any 
further action.
I have sympathy for the situation Mr A finds himself in. However, Accredited Insurance were 
within their rights to request the information and exercise their discretion if to continue to 
provide cover. They gave Mr A sufficient notice of cancellation which was in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. So I wont be asking Accredited Insurance to do anything 
more.
My final decisionFor reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman