DRN-1438494
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D are unhappy that they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when 
they redeemed their mortgage. They say the mortgage broker, who is an appointed 
representative of Connells Limited, didn't tell them about the ERC.
Any reference to Connells in this decision should be taken to mean the individual mortgage 
broker where appropriate. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr D applied for this five-year fixed rate mortgage on 1 September 2016. A 
mortgage offer was produced by the lender on 24 September 2016 and the mortgage 
completed on 21 December 2016.
Mrs and Mr D put their house on the market in 2018 and bought a new property on 
21 November 2018. They sold their original property on 1 March 2019 and repaid the 
mortgage, incurring an ERC.
Mrs and Mr D complained to Connells saying they weren't told there would be an ERC. 
Connells rejected the complaint, albeit it refunded a £99 fee it said it shouldn't have charged.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint, saying the ERC was set out in all the 
paperwork. Mrs and Mr D didn't agree and so it's been passed to me decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C told our investigator on the phone:
"We didn't sign any paperwork at all", and
"We were sent... we had the form which had the early repayment charge on, but this 
was after we'd secured the mortgage."
Mrs and Mr C were buying a house. To get the mortgage, they must have signed a mortgage 
application form declaration or the lender wouldn't have processed their application. They 
then would have been sent the mortgage offer (which contained the information about the 
ERC) directly by the lender. Their solicitor would then have sent them the mortgage deed for 
signing (which they must have signed otherwise the mortgage couldn't have completed) and 
told them to only sign it if they were happy with the mortgage offer that had been issued. All 
this would have happened before Mrs and Mr C had "secured the mortgage", it's simply not 
possible they got the mortgage otherwise.
The mortgage offer they were sent by Nationwide, and which by signing the mortgage deed 
they agreed to, said:
"10. What happens if you do not want this mortgage any more?
Early repayment charges
Early repayment charges are payable on this mortgage for the first 60 months after the 
end of the month in which you take the loan. The table below is for illustrative 
purposes, and assumes a start date of 1st October 2016.
Please refer to the conditions below for the actual calculation method"
The table set out the ERCs as a decreasing amount, so for the first year it would be 5% of 
the amount repaid (a maximum amount of £8,413) down to 1% of the amount repaid in the 
last year of the fixed rate period (a maximum of £1,683).
I can't know for sure what was said to Mrs and Mr D in the meeting, but I do know this 
mortgage offer would have been issued to Mrs and Mr D directly by the lender and that their 
solicitor would have checked they'd received it before they completed the mortgage.
I'm satisfied Mrs and Mr D should have known about the ERC before they took the mortgage 
out as it was clearly set out in the mortgage offer. If they didnt read the mortgage contract 
they were entering into I cant hold Connells liable for their omission.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs and Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman