DRN-3627205
The complaint
Mrs O complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Since the car was delivered to Mrs O there was a fault with the media and entertainment 
system. Repairs were attempted but these didnt resolve the issue. Black Horse accepted 
responsibility for the fault and offered a reduction of £1484.71, a sum equivalent to the cost 
of replacing the speaker system. It also offered £300 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that because the dealership had been unable 
to repair the fault, and because of the uncertainty about when parts would be available to 
carry out further repairs, I thought the best resolution would be for Black Horse to allow Mrs 
O to reject the car. I also said that Black Horse should refund 15% of all monthly payments 
made by Mrs O to reflect impaired use and pay compensation of £300 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs O responded to my provisional decision and said that things had moved on and that the 
fault had been successfully repaired under warranty at no cost to her. 
I issued a further provisional decision in which I said that I thought the best way to resolve 
the complaint would be for Black Horse to refund 15% of all monthly payments made by Mrs 
O to reflect impaired use from the start of the agreement to the date when repairs were 
completed. I also said Mrs O should receive compensation of £300.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or arguments they wished to raise. 
Mrs O responded and said she accepted my decision. Black Horse didnt respond to my 
further provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O has said that she accepts my provisional decision and Black Horse hasnt said 
anything further. Therefore, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I 
reached in my further provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services must
Refund 15% of all monthly payments made by Mrs O from the start of the agreement to the 
date when repairs were completed and pay 8% simple interest on the amount refunded from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Black Horse Limited must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman