DRN-3788521
The complaint
Mr U complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt remortgage his property when the 
existing mortgage with Barclays had come to an end.
What happened
Mr U got a notice from Barclays on 17 March 2020, saying that as an existing customer, the 
bank may be able to assist him if he was looking to take out further borrowing. At this point, 
Mr U was looking to undertake renovation works, and hoped to take out further borrowing to 
fund this. Mr U wanted to borrow £70,000 on a property worth £365,000. So, Mr U wrote to 
Barclays via their online portal on 14 April 2020, expressing his wish to apply for further 
borrowing. In an automatic reply to his enquiry, Barclays explained that they would respond 
within two to five days. 
As no response was received by 22 April 2020, Mr U contacted Barclays by phone on 23 
April. Mr U explained that during this conversation he was concerned by Barclays indicating 
that he may not be entitled to a re-mortgage if he hadnt been a UK resident for more than 
two years. Following this conversation, Barclays arranged for Mr U to have an appointment 
with a mortgage adviser. Mr U contacted Barclays again by email following this conversation, 
setting out his concerns with the points that had been raised. In a final response to Mr Us 
first complaint dated 3 June 2020, Barclays apologised for the service hed received, and 
offered £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. At this point, 
Barclays also explained that he could speak with their Home Solutions Direct team, who 
could discuss the re-mortgage options available to him. 
Mr U subsequently spoke with Barclays, and provided the information required to complete 
an application by phone. On 24 June 2020, he wrote to Barclays expressing concern that no 
response had been received within three weeks. Having not received a reply by 14 July 
2020, Mr U contacted Barclays setting out his renewed concerns. A further formal complaint 
was logged by Mr U on 19 August 2020. In this complaint, Mr U said that he was unhappy 
that Barclays hadnt been able to progress his application in over five months. 
Barclays responded to Mr Us complaint on 11 September 2020, in which they explained that 
they wouldnt be able to assist Mr U with a re-mortgage due to his income being paid in a 
non-sterling currency that wasnt on their list of currencies that they wouldnt accept. 
Barclays apologised for the delay in providing Mr U with this information and offered a further 
payment of £200 for the inconvenience he experienced. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that it was 
reasonable for a bank to have a policy on what currencies would be acceptable for funding a 
mortgage and that Barclays had followed its policy in refusing Mr Us application. He 
accepted that there was poor service from Barclays but that the compensation offered of 
£400 was reasonable. Mr U disagreed and asked for a review. 
My provisional findings
I considered this complaint and as some of the reasons for my conclusions differed from our 
investigator, although the outcome was the same, I issued my provisional findings as 
follows:
There are two parts to this complaint. Firstly, the delay in Barclays coming to a decision on 
this application and secondly the decision itself. It seems that from March 2020 until the end 
of May 2020, Mr U had been told that Barclays would contact him but didnt and he raised a 
complaint which Barclays responded to at the beginning of June. At that stage two letters 
went out from Barclays, one to apologise and the other from the Home Solutions Team 
asking Mr U to contact it. I note that Barclays was to send out an application form but after 
three weeks it hadnt been sent out by Barclays. Mr U sent out a further complaint and in 
response to that complaint was told by Barclays on 11 September that he did not meet the 
criteria for a re-mortgage due to his income being paid in Nigerian Naira. 
So, basically Mr U had to wait between March and September 2020 to be told that he was 
ineligible to apply for a re-mortgage. That seems an exceptionally long wait for a response 
and I can see that Mr U expended a deal of time contacting Barclays from abroad. I do 
recognise that part of this delay occurred during the first wave of the Coronavirus pandemic 
when all lenders resources were stretched but I cant understand why Barclays final 
response wasnt delivered to Mr U sooner than it was. 
If I look at the decision itself, Mr U had been paying his mortgage to Barclays for a 
considerable period of time and, as it was coming to an end, he expected to be able to get a 
further mortgage for renovation work but was eventually told that as his income was paid in 
Nigerian Naira he would not meet the criteria for a re-mortgage.
Barclays has shown us documents that since 2018 its been engaged in cross-border 
reviews and has been reducing the number of countries its willing to accept mortgage 
applications from as residents who live outside the UK. I see that in October 2018 that 
number was further reduced to three countries that it was willing to accept applications from 
non-UK residents and Nigeria isnt one of them. Ive also seen evidence that from December 
2018 that Barclays said it wouldnt accept any further mortgage submissions based on 
income in Nigerian Naira.
It would seem to me that since 2018, Mr U would have failed Barclays test on both the 
grounds. Firstly, he was a non-UK resident, and not a resident of a country that Barclays 
was willing to provide a mortgage on a UK property to. Secondly that his main income was in 
Nigerian Naira. 
I have to consider whether these policies are fair and reasonable. It seems to me that its not 
unreasonable for a lender to include in its risk assessment what countries its willing to 
accept applications from and what currencies it finds acceptable to base an affordability 
assessment on.  Its not unusual for banks to have policies on what currencies they will or 
will not accept as the basis of a mortgage customers affordability assessment. Ive seen 
blanket bans on earnings in a foreign currency but in this case, Barclays has a list of which 
currencies are unacceptable and Nigerian Naira is on that list. 
Mr U had a mortgage with Barclays, but Barclays policy had changed since as policies do 
and thats not unusual or unfair. I note in its letter to Mr U of 11 September 2020 that 
Barclays although not willing to provide a re-mortgage was willing to help Mr U with a rate 
switch on a like for like basis. I dont see that as contradictory to its policy of not agreeing a 
re-mortgage. The concession of a rate switch would ensure that Mr U would be allowed to 
switch to a new mortgage product within his current mortgage but doesnt indicate that 
Barclays was willing to accept a new mortgage. Mr U says that although the bulk of his professional services is paid in Nigerian Naira, hes 
been able to make substantial transfers from his earnings abroad into his Barclays sterling 
account to show that hes able to meet his commitments. But Barclays isnt assessing his 
ability to meet his commitments at this moment in time. Its deciding whether it wishes to take 
a risk going into the future on the currency that forms the bulk of Mr Us earnings and its 
making an assessment that its entitled to do that it finds that risk - and has done since 2018 - 
unacceptable. 
Mr U says that this is discriminatory. Various forms of discrimination are outlawed in the 
Equality Act 2010 (the Act). Its not our role but that of the court to determine whether 
Barclays is in breach of the Act, but I have to consider the relevant law in determining 
whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably.  
Barclays refused a mortgage to Mr U because he was a non-UK resident. In my view 
although thats not direct discrimination, as residence isnt a protected characteristic under 
the Act, it could amount to indirect discrimination as customers resident abroad are more 
likely to be non-UK nationals. Similarly, whilst Barclays offers mortgages to some customers 
with non-sterling income it doesnt offer it to customers whose income is in Naira. That is 
potential indirect discrimination on grounds of nationality. There are defences to such claims 
under the Act if Barclays can show that its policy was a proportionate means of achieving a 
legitimate aim. I raised these issues with Barclays and obtained its responses. In response 
to my enquiry, Barclays replied:
It reviews whether it is able to offer mortgages on UK property to customers not 
resident in the UK;
There are additional complexities in these sorts of mortgages, including regulatory 
and risk requirements;
Following an earlier review, Barclays UK decided to reduce the number of countries it 
would lend to residents of  removing Nigeria and others from the list;
Since Mr U complained, a more recent review has resulted in it deciding not to lend 
to any non-UK residents;
However, whilst this means it cant offer new mortgages or further borrowing to 
existing customers, it does allow existing mortgages to continue;
It carries out a similar process with regard to the currencies in which income to 
support a mortgage to the UK is paid;
It noted that the exchange rate between Sterling and Naira was relatively volatile;
This increased the risk that a mortgage depending on Naira for affordability might 
become unaffordable due to movements in exchange rates;
It no longer offers mortgages to customers depending on income in Naira, including 
further borrowing  but again allows existing mortgages to continue;
It considered that in both cases, its policies were fair, evidence based and 
proportionate.
Again, its not our role but that of the courts to determine whether there Barclays has been a 
breach of the Act. But it would appear that Barclays in relation to both these issues had a 
legitimate aim and acted proportionately in respect of Mr U as it respected his existing borrowing but refused a new mortgage. And, in respect of his income, I also note that the 
mortgage rules require a lender to take into account the extra risks arising from non-sterling 
income and either take additional steps to mitigate those risks or not to lend. These rules 
came into force in 2016, after Mr U took out his mortgage but before he applied for further 
borrowing.
Barclays has shown us that its decision is within its policy related to what countries are 
considered an acceptable risk to provide mortgages to for non-UK residents and what 
currencies are considered acceptable to provide supporting income for that mortgage. That 
seems an entirely reasonable assessment for a bank to conduct. So, I dont consider that 
Barclays has done anything wrong in coming to that assessment although its had an 
unfortunate knock-on effect on Mr Us application. So, I cant fairly criticise Barclays decision 
to refuse Mr U a new mortgage and wont be upholding this complaint.
I agree that the delay in coming to a decision and communicating it to Mr U was 
unacceptable for which he should be compensated for his distress and inconvenience. This 
must have been very frustrating to Mr U with his reasonable queries not being responded to 
in a reasonable period. Although there would have been some disruption to his plans, it isnt 
a case say where he was waiting a mortgage to buy his home where the delay would have 
had an altogether different impact. So, I believe that the £400 offered by Barclays represents 
fair compensation and I will not be asking it to pay anything further. 
I issued my Provisional decision on this basis and invited submissions from both parties by 2 
November. But I received no further submissions by either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I received no further submissions or evidence from either party, I proceeded to review the 
evidence on the file and the submissions that the parties previously made. Having 
considered those Im of the view that my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to 
this complaint and will issue a Final Decision on those terms.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman