DRN-3781422
The complaint
Ms L has complained Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited is asking her to repay money 
owed for a mobile handset she never received.
What happened
In November 2017 Ms L ordered a new handset. She was to pay for this over a two-year 
period by virtue of a credit agreement with Virgin. Ms L contacted Virgin a few days later to 
say the handset hadnt been delivered.
After reviewing the delivery records, Virgin felt it was most likely that the handset had been 
delivered and continued to hold Ms L responsible for monthly payments. Although Ms L was 
insistent shed not received the handset, she made her monthly payments. In 2022 Virgin 
asked Mr L to pay £42 for a monthly payment they believed remained outstanding.
As she was unable to resolve her complaint with Virgin, Ms L brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator also felt it was most likely the handset had been delivered to Ms Ls home 
address. He wasnt going to ask Virgin to do anything further.
Still unhappy, Ms L has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see an independent adjudication service considered whether the handset had 
been properly delivered. In early 2018 they confirmed they felt the evidence showed it had. 
Ive reviewed  as much as I can taking into account the time period that has passed  what 
they considered and have come to the same conclusion.
I say this because evidence shows the handset was delivered to Ms Ls address. It was 
signed for by someone who provided a name similar to Ms Ls daughter. I appreciate the 
delivery drivers description at the time doesnt necessarily match Ms Ls daughter who was 
only 16 at the time. But Im not sure that it would be fair to rely purely on this description 
when other name evidence suggests the person accepting the phone was most likely Ms Ls 
daughter. Ive also noted the evidence Ms L has provided to show that she was at work that 
day which I dont dispute. 
Ive reviewed the detailed evidence Ms L has provided to us to show she bought a re-
conditioned phone a few months after she says she didnt receive her ordered handset. This 
also includes insurance cover. Ive also seen that the SIM sent with the mobile handset was 
never activated according to Virgins own records.
Ive also considered the points Ms L makes about the requirement to ensure delivery of the 
handset was to someone over 18 years old. Im required to consider relevant law, and that 
includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015. However under statute Im able to make my 
decision on a fair and reasonable basis. I have done this here as I feel if the delivery was 
made to the correct address that can outweigh requirements under the law in this case.
I appreciate Ms Ls honesty and passion over what happened and I have taken that into 
account. However as I believe the delivery was made correctly, Virgin can take steps to ask 
Ms L to repay any outstanding money.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ls complaint against Virgin 
Media Mobile Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman