DRN-4107519
The complaint
Mr B complains NAYLORS FINANCE LIMITED (Naylors) provided him with a loan when he 
already had multiple defaults on his credit file.
He also says he didnt receive the default notification letter and finally he says that he 
couldnt reach anyone in Naylors office to cancel the agreement.  
What happened
Mr B signed the credit agreement for the loan on 3 November 2021 but the statement of 
account suggests the loan was funded on 10 November 2021 for £400. Mr B was due to 
make 40 weekly repayments of £17.60. Mr B had some problems repaying his loan and was 
able to do so through a repayment plan that finished on 2 March 2023. 
Naylors considered the complaint, and it didnt uphold it because it says it carried out a 
proportionate check which showed the loan to be affordable. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said Naylors had 
reasonable grounds to believe Mr B could afford the loan and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
She also concluded that Mr B had given notice to withdraw from the credit agreement within 
the timescale that he was required to meet. However, she said the notice of withdrawal had 
expired, because Mr B hadnt returned the funds to Naylors within 30 days. 
 
Finally, she concluded that Mr Bs account was sufficiently in arrears to have the default 
notice issued and Naylors had provided a copy of the default notice that was sent, which 
explained to Mr B what he needed to do to prevent the default from being added to his credit 
file. 
Mr B didnt agree and said the main issue is that the default notice wasnt sent, and he didnt 
receive it. Later on, Mr B said that when he called and spoke to Naylors not once did it 
mention a default notice having been issued. 
He also sent copies of emails between himself and Naylors that discussed court action  but 
Mr B says again there was no mention of a default notice being sent and / or applied. In 
order to put things right, Mr B wants the default removed. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have split this decision into three sections, firstly dealing what happened when the loan was 
approved and what checks were carried out. Secondly, with the issue of the withdrawal and 
finally the default notice. 
Unaffordable lending 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Naylors had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Naylorss checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Naylors should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Bs complaint because there was only one loan.  
Naylors was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Naylors asked Mr B for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,309 per month from full time employment. Mr B also declared he 
received child benefit payments of £140.60 per month. Naylors broke this down into a 
weekly income figure of £586.69. As this was the first loan, and Mr B confirmed this figure to 
be accurate I think it is reasonable for Naylors to have relied on what he declared.   Mr B also declared monthly outgoings of £1,069.80 broken down across a number of 
different categories such as home, utilities, food and housekeeping for example. Again, 
Naylors broke this down into a weekly figure of £241.12. For a first loan it was entirely 
reasonable and proportionate for Naylors to have relied on the information it received from 
Mr B.
After carrying out these checks, Mr B had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford 
the weekly repayment of around £18. The loan wouldve looked affordable. 
I appreciate that Mr B had some difficulties in making the repayment but these difficulties 
werent reflected in either the information that Naylors gathered at the point the loan was 
advanced and neither did Mr B let Naylors know that he was having wider problems. 
Naylors didnt carry out a credit search, and its worth saying Naylors wasnt required to do 
one under the regulations. So, the fact a search wasnt carried out wouldnt be a reason to 
uphold the complaint. 
For a first loan, where the weekly repayments were modest, I think it was entirely 
proportionate for Naylors to have relied on the information Mr B gave it about his income and 
expenditure which showed the loan to be affordable. Which also means I it wouldnt have 
been propionate for example for Naylors to have requested copies of Mr Bs bank 
statements. That wouldve been in my view entirely disproportionate.  
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about this element of his complaint. 
Withdrawal from the credit agreement
The adjudicator didnt uphold this part of the complaint, because while she was satisfied 
notice had been given by Mr B  as he hadnt made the repayment to Naylors within 30 days 
she said the notice to withdraw had in effect expired. 
Mr Bs right to withdraw from the credit agreement is set out in his credit agreement and 
these rights stem from the  Consumer Credit Act 1974 (as amended) (CCA) ss 66A.
S66A(2) says:
To withdraw from an agreement under this section the debtor must give oral or 
written notice of the withdrawal to the creditor before the end of the period of 14 days 
beginning with the day after the relevant day.
In this case, Mr B contacted Naylors on 16 November 2021 to say that he wanted to cancel 
the agreement. It seems throughout this period Mr B uses the term right to cancel  but this 
is a different right enshrined in a different part of the CCA  and which doesnt apply in this 
instance. 
But I think that the import of what Mr B was telling Naylors would have been understood as 
often the terms withdraw and cancel are used interchangeably even if technically only one 
was applicable here. For the purposes of this complaint, Mr B had a right to withdraw and 
that is what Ive considered. 
Mr B did give notice to Naylors within 14 days of taking the loan that he was going to 
withdraw. So, Im satisfied that Mr B has complied with the relevant section of the CCA and 
therefore Mr B did withdraw from the agreement. However, Mr B didnt return to Naylors the amount he borrowed and any accrued interest 
within 30 days of giving notice as set out in S66A(10). Instead, he made a payment of £76 
on 23 November 2021 and then no further payments until January 2022. 
Mr B didnt pay what he ought to have done within the 30 days of giving notice that doesnt 
mean he didnt withdraw from the agreement  he did because he gave the required notice. 
And he was only able to repay the balance that was owed through a repayment plan that 
finished in March 2023. 
So, although Mr B did give notice, given what subsequently happened with the repayments, 
it does lead me to question whether Mr B was actually able to repay what he borrowed when 
he requested to withdraw, and whether he could do what was required - to pay Naylors 
within 30 days.  Ultimately, and I go on to discuss this in the third part of this decision due to 
repayment problems Naylors took the decision to default the account. 
While Mr B did give notice of his intention to withdraw from the agreement, he didnt make 
the payment as required. Therefore, I think its reasonable, as it stands that no further action 
is taken by Naylors with regards to this part of his complaint. 
Defaulting the account 
From the emails sent from Mr B to us, it appears that this is his main concern. He says he 
never received the default notice and when he did speak to Naylors the default wasnt 
mentioned. I understand Mr B has seen a copy of the default notice Naylors says was sent. 
Ive firstly considered whether, Naylors was even in a position to issue a default notice in 
June 2022. When thinking about this Ive considered the repayment history as well as the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance entitled Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies.  This provides guidance 
to lenders as to how arrears and defaults should be reported and so I consider this to be 
good industry practice. 
Principle 4 of the guidance says a default can be reported when an account enters arrears:
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears.
Having looked at Mr Bs credit agreement, he was required to make weekly payments of 
£17.60. And by the time Naylors says the default was sent, Mr B had only paid £152 towards 
the balance  which if you break this down as a weekly amount it works out to be around 8 
weeks worth of payments. Given this, by June 2022 Mr Bs account was sufficiently in 
arrears for the default notice to be issued. And so, the fact Naylors decide the 9 June 2022 
was the date to issue a default notice, isnt in my view incorrect. 
Naylors has also supplied a copy of the default notice. This is dated 9 June 2022 (so the 
date it says it was sent) and it was correctly addressed to Mr B. 
In additional, Naylors statement of account, is noted when arrears letters were sent, and the 
default letter has been noted on there as being sent on 9 June 2022  which matches the 
date on the actual default notice. So, I can only reasonably conclude, that on 9 June 2022, 
Naylors issued the default notice. 
Ive also reviewed the default notice, and this does contain all that it should do to make it 
valid  as set out in Section 88 of the CCA. It explains to Mr B what the breach is, the action 
required by Mr B to remedy the breach  in this case needing to make a payment of £304 in full. Finally, the default notice gave the date that this payment needed to have been made by 
 7 July 2022.
When the required payment of £304 wasnt made, Naylors in effect terminated the 
agreement and then subsequently started court proceedings on 18 July 2022. However, 
these proceedings were suspended once a payment plan was agreed. 
Mr B says he didnt receive a copy of the notice  which is of course possible and there 
couldve been a problem with the post  but I need not speculate. Naylors obligation is to 
send such notice and given the evidence provided I am satisfied the notice was sent to the 
correct address held on Mr Bs account. So, while Mr B may not have received the notice, 
that doesnt mean the default isnt valid. 
Naylors has provided a copy of a call between itself and Mr B on 24 June 2022  this is the 
one mentioned in Mr Bs email to Naylors of 20 July 2022. This was a call where Mr B spoke 
to Naylors in order to set up a repayment plan. 
And I agree, that on the call with Mr B a repayment plan was going to be set up from 27 of 
each month but due to Mr B just being paid the call agent said it would be set up from 
July 2022. Mr B also asked to pay more than the amount the agent suggested - £100. The 
agent asked Mr B whether he would want to make a payment on the day. Mr B declined but 
said  he would call back on Monday to do that. Based on the statement of account this 
didnt happen. 
I would agree with Mr B that the default notice wasnt mentioned on the call  but even if it 
had been, Im not satisfied that it wouldve altered Mr Bs actions considering the account 
was significantly in arrears and he wouldve needed to have paid Naylors more than £300 by 
the start of July 2022. Which was significantly more than Mr B said he could afford as part of 
the payment plan. 
I appreciate that Mr B says that during the contact with Naylors it didnt mention the account 
had a default noticed issued or that the account had defaulted. And I can see from the 
emails Mr B has sent us  following the commencement of course proceedings the default 
wasnt mentioned. But by this date, the default notice had already expired, and Naylors had 
taken further action  to begin court proceedings in order to receive payment.  
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about the default; his account was at least six months in 
arrears and so under the ICO guidance a default notice could be issued. And Im satisfied, 
based on the evidence that Naylors sent such a notice, and the notice was compliant with 
the relevant sections of the CCA. 
Overall, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman