DRN-3405565
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him mortgage payment 
protection insurance.
What happened
Mr A arranged the mortgage in October 1994 (with it going live in 1995) and did not take out 
PPI at that time. It was in 1999 that BoS sold him PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagree with the adjudicators opinion and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr As mortgage had been running for about four years at the time that he was sold the PPI. 
Therefore, he cannot have thought that the PPI was a condition of the borrowing. And Mr A 
signed a separate PPI application form to confirm that he wanted the policy. Therefore, it 
seems to me that Mr A had an interest in protecting his mortgage repayments and decided 
to buy PPI.
BoS says this was an advised sale, meaning that it needed to ensure that the PPI met Mr 
As needs. And from what I know of Mr As circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable 
for him.
Mr As employer would have given him sick pay of six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay. However, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially 
for longer than Mr A would have received full pay for. Mr A had some savings but having the 
policy would have meant that he could retain these savings or use them to cover other 
outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr A stated on the application form that he had a minor illness but, as our adjudicator has 
explained, it is not something that he would ever have needed to made a claim on the policy 
for. Mr A could not recall having declared this illness and does not consider himself to have 
had a significant pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale.
Mr A says that the adviser might not have sold the policy to him if they hadnt been 
commission driven. To be clear to Mr A, the unfair commission that has been talked about 
and for which BoS has made an offer, isnt the sort of commission that an individual staff 
member would receive for making sales. It is actually commission paid to BoS from the 
insurer at a higher level. 
Mr A has said that he was liable for child support and therefore the PPI wasnt affordable. 
The cost of the policy was set out on the application form that Mr A has signed. Therefore, 
he would have been aware of the cost before making the decision to buy it. The policy could 
have been cancelled at any time had Mr A found it unaffordable. Overall, I am not persuaded 
that Mr As child support costs made the PPI unsuitable and I think it was reasonable of BoS 
to recommend the policy to him.
BoS only had to provide information about the PPI policy that it offered and had no obligation 
to advise about other potentially cheaper alternatives on the open market. 
I think that Mr A must have known something about the PPI  that it would cover his 
mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But, as already mentioned, Mr A was not 
affected by any of those things. As I consider that he had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
This means that BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But BoS 
has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. 
Because BoS didnt tell Mr A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that the cheque sent to Mr A 
was cancelled after he didnt cash it. Therefore, Bank of Scotland plc should now issue 
another cheque to Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman