DRN-2814337
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with their claim against their
travel insurance policy. They also complain that UKI didnt tell them about a change in the
terms of their policy in November 2019. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance as a benefit of a building society account. They 
planned a trip which had departure and return dates of 2 March 2020 and
28 March 2020 respectively. Whilst they were on their trip, the government of their 
destination country declared a state of national emergency and put the country into 
lockdown. Mr H says that he phoned UKI on 20 March 2020 and it told them to retain 
receipts and make a claim on their return home.
On 23 March 2020, the Foreign Secretary advised all UK tourists abroad to return home. I 
understand that Mr and Mrs Hs airline cancelled their return flight which was due to depart 
on 28 March 2020. Mr and Mrs H returned home on 3 July 2020.
Mr and Mrs H spoke with UKI again on 7 July 2020 in order to make a claim for out of 
pocket expenses amounting to £1,690.97. Their claim was for food, taxi, petrol, clothes, 
medication and internet access. Mr and Mrs Hs claim didnt include travel costs or 
additional accommodation costs. UKI told them that they could claim up to £250 each for 
delay. UKI then registered their claim and said it would contact them when it had been 
reviewed. On 17 July 2020, UKI declined their claim.
Mr and Mrs H say that they dont recall being told about a change to the terms and 
conditions of their cover. They say that on 7 July 2020, UKI confirmed that the delay 
element of their claim was valid. Mr and Mrs H want UKI to settle their claim in
accordance with the terms and conditions in place before November 2019.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Mr and Mrs Hs policy 
doesnt cover what happened here, so he didnt think that UKI treated them unfairly in 
declining their claim. The investigator said that the change to the terms and conditions about 
the amounts and limits of cover doesnt alter the outcome here, as Mr and Mrs H didnt have 
a valid claim under the policy.
The investigator thought that UKI had caused Mr and Mrs H inconvenience, as it should 
have told them that there was no cover when Mr H called to discuss the claim. He said that 
Mr and Mrs H had made several calls to UKI which they wouldnt have had to make if UKI 
had given them correct information at the outset. The investigator thought that UKI should 
pay Mr and Mrs H compensation of £100 in relation to that.
Neither Mr and Mrs H nor UKI agreed with the investigator. Mr and Mrs H said:
UKI told Mr H initially that he should keep all receipts and make a claim on their 
return to the UK. After theyd returned to the UK, UKI told Mr H that whilst they 
werent covered for incidental costs, they were covered for delay. But it 
subsequently rejected their claim.
UKI didnt tell them about the changes to the terms and conditions from 
November 2019.
UKI didnt agree that it should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation of £100 in relation to 
delay. It said that it logged the claim on 7 July 2020 and declined the claim on                
17 July 2020. UKI didnt think that delay was excessive. It didnt agree that it should have 
told Mr and Mrs H earlier that they had no cover, as it needed time to assess the claim 
and obtain documents in order to make a correct decision.
The investigator considered what had been said but it didnt change his view. He said 
that when Mr and Mrs H first spoke with UKI in March 2020, it should have been able to 
tell them that its unlikely their claim would be covered. That would have prevented them 
wasting further time on the claim and avoided loss of expectation.
Mr and Mrs H and UKI asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 20 April 2019, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I didnt 
propose to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr and Mr Hs return flight was 
cancelled and, effectively, their trip was extended, not curtailed. The only part of the policy
which may be relevant here says as follows:
(November 2019 policy terms)
Missed, Delayed or Abandoned Departure
This section provides cover if: 
[]
You are unable to return to the UK on your planned return 
date. []
Delayed Return
We will pay up to £500 for any extra car parking, kennel, cattery, or professional pet sitter 
costs if for reasons outside your control, you cant return to the UK on your planned return 
date.The earlier terms and conditions provided as follows:
(January 2019 policy terms)
B- Travel delay and abandonment 
What you are covered for
1. Delay
We will pay you up to £1,000 per insured person after the first four hours delay of the 
pre-booked flight [] for additional expenses such as accommodation, travel, meals 
and refreshments which arise because the transport you have checked-in for is delayed 
[]
2. Abandonment
We will pay you up to £5,000 per insured person if [] you are prevented from [] 
returning to the UK because airspace has been closed on the orders of an official 
Government or regulatory body for more than 24 hours following your scheduled 
departure.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I have a lot of empathy with the circumstances in which Mr and Mrs H found themselves. 
They were in a position where the FCO guidance changed and they were told to return
home. However, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think that 
UKI treated them unfairly. I say that because:
In the circumstances that arose here, Mr and Mrs Hs policy provides cover for extra 
car parking, kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter costs. It doesnt provide cover 
for the expenses claimed by Mr and Mrs H. So, I dont think that UKI was at fault in 
declining the claim under the terms of the relevant policy. Given the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy, I also dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case to direct UKI to pay a claim which isnt covered by
the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs H say that they didnt receive notification of a change to the policy terms 
and conditions. That doesnt alter the outcome here. Thats because Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim wouldnt be successful under the earlier terms and conditions either: their flight 
wasnt delayed, it was cancelled; they hadnt checked into the flight; they werent 
prevented from returning because the airspace was closed. So, even if I concluded 
that UKI should assess Mr and Mrs Hs claim against the earlier terms and 
conditions, UKI wouldnt be obliged to settle the claim.
I dont think that UKI was obliged to assess Mr and Mrs Hs claim fully when Mr H 
contacted it by phone on 20 March 2020. At that point, matters were uncertain, and 
the nature and extent of Mr and Mrs Hs claim was unknown to both parties.When Mr and Mrs H made the claim on 7 July 2020, I dont think that UKI is at fault 
for failing to give Mr and Mrs H an immediate answer, as it needed to consider the 
claim. UKI declined the claim on 17 July 2020. I dont think that it took an 
unreasonable length of time to assess the claim. So, I dont think that UKI should pay 
Mr and Mrs H compensation in relation to their inconvenience and loss of 
expectation.
For these reasons, I dont propose to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI said that it had nothing further to add. Mr H said:
In a phone call on 7 July 2020, UKI said that they would be covered by the delay 
element of the policy.
He agrees that UKI didnt delay in dealing with the claim once it was lodged but in 
several phone calls it gave them false expectations and caused them inconvenience 
as the people to whom they spoke didnt have sufficient knowledge of the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says that in several phone calls, UKI gave him false expectations as the people to 
whom he spoke didnt have sufficient knowledge of the policy details. I dont think that 
changes the outcome here. Thats because when we find that an insurer has given incorrect 
information we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect information was true. UKI would 
still be entitled to decline the claim under the terms of the policy.  
Ive taken into account the unprecedented circumstances that were happening when Mr H 
first contacted UKI in March 2020. At that stage, the exact nature and extent of                    
Mr and Mrs Hs claim wasnt certain, so I dont think that UKI could have given a full 
response about the claim, as the details of the claim werent known at that stage. 
Any incorrect information given to Mr and Mrs H in early July 2020 would have been 
corrected by the time UKI declined the claim on 17 July 2020. So, any raised expectation 
was short lived. 
Ive considered everything again, but I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. 
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I dont uphold                   
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman