DRN-3700631
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement 
with Blue Motor Finance Ltd, trading as Blue Motor Finance (BMF).
What happened
On 11 November 2021 Mr G entered a hire purchase agreement with BMF for a van. It was 
just over eight years old and was documented as having covered 87,600 miles. The cash 
price was £7,475. Mr G says he saw the van advertised online. Ive seen a copy of the 
advert, which said:
van with 5 seats in fabntastic condition, presented with a full service history, 2 keys, 
side loading and rear doors, air conditioning, steering wheel functions, remote central 
locking, Bluetooth hands free, AUX/USB input, this is a great combi van.
The dealer agreed to deliver the van on 16 November 2021 for Mr G to inspect and accept  
and Mr G agreed to pay their delivery charge. But he says he was at work when it arrived, 
because the driver didnt call ahead to say what time hed get there. Mr G says the keys 
were posted through his letterbox. 
Mr G says he came home to discover there was damage to the vehicles key, windscreen, 
tail-light and seatbelt cover - and it had already travelled almost 90,000 miles. He says he 
tried to contact the dealer several times by phone and email to resolve these issues, but he 
didnt receive any response. 
Mr G says that in December 2021, when he went to refill the screen wash, he found the 
bonnet couldnt be opened without force. He says he then discovered damage to the 
bodywork and bumper, which had been covered with silver tape and paint. He believed this 
to be an attempt to cover up damage caused by a significant impact from a collision. 
Mr G emailed the dealer on 11 December 2021 to let them know about the further issues 
hed discovered - and that hed be contacting BMF about getting the vehicle returned. He 
also complained to BMF, who advised him to get a report on the damage. 
Mr G took the van to a local garage for an inspection. The mechanic provided a document 
saying there was clear accident/impact damage to the vehicle, which included Damage to 
bumper and Crash barrier behind bumper.
Mr G says he stopped driving the van in January 2022, because he was concerned about its 
safety. He says he couldnt do this until hed sourced another vehicle from a separate 
finance company, which had a significant impact on his monthly budget.
BMF sent a final letter of response to Mr G on 7 February 2022, saying they hadnt upheld 
his complaint. They said that, as hed travelled 4,000 miles in the van, theyd need 
confirmation that the issues hed raised were present when it was supplied. They said they 
considered the issues hed raised to be cosmetic wear and tear  and hed had the 
opportunity to inspect the van when it was delivered. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think the van was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr G  and she felt hed been misled by the advert. She said 
she hadnt seen any evidence showing the mileage when the van was delivered, so she 
couldnt confirm whether Mr G had previously been given incorrect information about this. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded that the dealer had made any error with the delivery, but 
she felt BMF should cover that cost as theyd supplied an unsatisfactory vehicle. She said 
BMF should also:
end the agreement and collect the van with nothing further for Mr G to pay, 
refund 20% of the monthly payments Mr G had made between October and 
December 2021 to compensate him for loss of enjoyment of the van,
return the monthly payments Mr G had made from January 2022 onwards, when he 
stopped using the van,
pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts, from the date of payments until the 
date of settlement.
BMF said the advert hadnt described the van as being in fantastic condition, because that 
description referred specifically to the seats. They said Mr G had covered more than 2,600 
miles in the first month - double the standard monthly mileage  and that they hadnt seen 
evidence confirming the issues were present when the van was supplied.
But our investigator said her view hadnt changed. She thought most customers would read 
the advert description as referring to the van. She didnt think it was unexpected for Mr G to 
cover a large mileage in a short space of time because he used the van for work. She said 
she thought the tape that had been applied to the bonnet and bumper damage appeared 
old, and that this damage was much more likely to have been present at the point of supply.
BMF asked for an ombudsman to review the case. They said the dealer had confirmed Mr G 
inspected the van before deciding to enter into the agreement - and that it had been MOT 
tested before it was delivered to him. They felt this showed it was fit for purpose at the time. 
They said the dealer tried numerous times to contact Mr G regarding the delivery charge he 
owes them, at which point any issues could also have been discussed. They said hed 
ignored these calls. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint is about a vehicle supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mr Gs concerns about BMF.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
says under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  BMF in this case  has a responsibility 
to make sure the goods are of satisfactory quality. The standard thats applied is whether a 
reasonable person would consider the quality of the goods to be satisfactory, taking into 
account the description, price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In this case, I consider it relevant to take into account the fact that the van was just over 
eight years old. Theres some dispute over the odometer reading at the time of supply, but the van had covered at least 87,600 miles. The price was £7,475, which represents a 
significant reduction on what it would have cost new. I dont think a reasonable person would 
have the same standards for this vehicle as they would a newer one with less mileage. 
I also consider the description of the van to be very relevant here. Ive seen a copy of the 
advert, which states van with 5 seats in fabntastic condition. BMF say this referred 
specifically to the seats  not the whole van. Im not persuaded of this. 
I think the average consumer would take this description to mean the van was in fantastic 
condition. And I consider the photos in the advert to support that description. I say this 
because, although they showed some wear and tear to the internal loading area, none of the 
photos showed any signs of damage to the external bodywork.
Having reviewed the advert, Im satisfied that a reasonable person would expect the van to 
be in fantastic condition, taking into account its age, mileage, and price. 
BMF dont dispute that there are now problems with the van. But they say the problems Mr G 
reported to them are either cosmetic or occurred after it was delivered. 
Mr G has provided photos and videos of the van, some of which also show the metadata 
from the phone that was used. Ive reviewed these images, alongside a copy of the 
document Mr G obtained from the mechanic, to consider the likely condition of the van when 
it was supplied. Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ive considered whats 
most likely to have happened. 
Mileage
Ive seen no supporting evidence to confirm the odometer reading when the van was 
delivered. So, I cant be sure whether there was an error on the documents Mr G received, 
which recorded the mileage as 87,600.
But in any event, I dont consider this point to make any difference to the outcome of this 
case. I say this because, even if I were to accept that Mr G was given documents showing 
less miles than the van had in fact travelled, Im not persuaded this had any impact on him. I 
dont think he would have made a different decision about entering into the agreement if 
those documents said the van had covered 90,000 miles. 
Tail-light
Mr G has provided photos and video footage showing a problem with the tail-light fixing, 
allowing the whole unit to move from its normal secured position. I can see theres a problem 
with this tail-light. 
Ive seen evidence showing some of these photos were taken on 17 November 2021 - the 
day after the van was delivered to Mr G. And Ive seen no evidence of any external damage 
to that area of the vehicle, which might suggest it had suffered an impact since delivery. So, I 
consider it most likely that the tail-light problem was present when the van was supplied.
Damage to the front of the vehicle 
Ive reviewed the document Mr G obtained from the mechanic, dated 21 December 2021. It 
states:
 we have noted clear accident/impact damage to the vehicle including but not limited to 
the following items;-Bonnet out of alignment
-Damage to bumper and crash barrier behind bumper.
Ive seen photos taken on 11 December 2021  less than four weeks after the van was 
delivered. These photos clearly show a crack in the front bumper, and another crack in the 
bodywork under the bonnet, near the headlight. I can see some silver tape, which is still in 
place at the end of the cracks. I note Mr G says he peeled some tape away to reveal the 
damage. Ive seen further photos taken on the same day, showing misaligned bodywork, 
and a crack in one of the headlights.
Theres some dispute from the parties as to when Mr G first raised a complaint about these 
issues. BMF have put forward evidence from the dealer saying Mr G ignored their attempts 
to contact him and didnt return their calls. Mr G has provided copies of emails he sent to the 
dealer on 17 November 2021, 21 November 2021, and 11 December 2021. He says the 
dealer didnt respond. 
It isnt disputed that Mr G first contacted BMF on 11 December 2021  the same day the 
photos of the damage to the front of the van were taken. So, Im satisfied that Mr G raised a 
complaint and evidenced the quality of this vehicle less than four weeks after it was 
delivered. 
And Im not persuaded that the damage Ive seen is something that happened within four 
weeks of those photos being taken. I find it most likely that the damage to the front of the 
van happened some time ago. I say this because I consider the silver covering thats been 
applied to be showing signs of age.
BMF have pointed out that the van has travelled around 4,000 miles since they supplied it. 
But I dont consider the mileage covered to be relevant here, because my decision is based 
on the apparent age of the damage and materials used to cover it. 
Ive seen conflicting evidence as to whether Mr G inspected the vehicle before he signed the 
agreement. But that doesnt affect my decision, because Mr G told us the damage to the 
front of the van had been concealed. And having carefully examined the photos included in 
the advert, I havent seen any obvious sign of damage to the bodywork that Id have 
expected him to notice. Mr G says he only noticed the damage when he opened the bonnet 
to top up the screen wash, which seems reasonable to me. 
BMF say the van passed an MOT test before it was delivered  and this shows it was fit for 
purpose. Ive accessed the MOT history, which is available to view online. This shows the 
most recent test took place on 28 July 2021. An MOT test can only look at the condition of 
the vehicle on the day of the test. So, Im not persuaded that this gives any kind of 
assurance as to the condition of the van three and a half months later, when it was supplied 
to Mr G. 
Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied?
Im satisfied that there were issues with the tail-light and damage to the front of the van, 
which were most likely to have been present when it was supplied to Mr G. And, given the 
description in the advert, I think he was reasonably entitled to expect this van to be in 
fantastic condition. 
Mr G also complained about issues with the key, windscreen, dashboard display and 
seatbelt cover. Ive seen less information about these problems and whether they were 
present when the vehicle was supplied. But I dont find it necessary to consider each of these other issues in detail because they dont change the outcome - or what I think is fair 
and reasonable to put things right. 
Regardless of whether there were also problems with the key, windscreen, dashboard 
display and seatbelt cover, I dont consider this van to have been of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied.
Delivery
I appreciate Mr G feels very strongly that the delivery driver should have called to say what 
time hed be arriving. Ive seen a copy of a statement from the driver, saying he did call 
ahead  and that the keys were left with a lady who was home at the time. 
I dont know what happened here. But as I dont consider the van to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G, it follows that I dont think he should have 
to pay the delivery charge. 
Putting things right
I think the van should be rejected. This means the agreement will end and BMF should 
arrange for the van to be collected, at no further cost to Mr G.
Mr G explained that he had to use the van for work, despite the problems with it. He accepts 
he had two months use of the van - and I think its fair for him to pay for that. But Ive seen it 
wasnt fault-free during that period. To compensate him for that, I think its fair for BMF to 
refund him 20% of the payments he made during the period he was using the van.
Mr G has told us he stopped using this van once hed secured an agreement for another 
vehicle. Ive seen that he signed the new agreement on 19 January 2021. So, I think its fair 
for BMF to refund the payments hes made under this hire purchase agreement since that 
date in full. 
I think Mr G has been caused additional stress and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with a van that wasnt of satisfactory quality. I think it would be upsetting to discover 
signs that it had previously been involved in an accident. Mr G had to get a mechanics 
report on the damage and source another vehicle to use for work. Hes told us his wages 
now barely cover his household bills, which I think would be stressful for him. I think BMF 
should also pay Mr H £200 to compensate him for this.
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd to:
End the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr G,
Collect the van, settling any outstanding delivery charge owed, at no cost to Mr G,
Refund 20% of the payments Mr G made for the period up to 19 January 2021,
Refund all payments Mr G has made for the period after 19 January 2021,
Pay Mr G interest on each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year,
Pay Mr G £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
If BMF consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
provide Mr G with a tax deduction certificate so he can reclaim the tax, if hes eligible. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G said he fully understood and accepted everything Id said in my provisional decision 
and had nothing further to add. 
BMF didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided in response to my provisional findings, I see no 
reason to depart from them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
End the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr G,
Collect the van, settling any outstanding delivery charge owed, at no cost to Mr G,
Refund 20% of the payments Mr G made for the period up to 19 January 2021,
Refund all payments Mr G has made for the period after 19 January 2021,
Pay Mr G interest on each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year,
Pay Mr G £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
If BMF consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
provide Mr G with a tax deduction certificate so he can reclaim the tax, if hes eligible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman