DRN-4079174
The complaint
Miss G and Mr G complain about cancellation of their learner driver motor insurance policy 
by their insurance intermediary, Collingwood Insurance Services (UK) Limited (Collingwood).
This decision concerns Collingwood as the insurance intermediary for the policy. It doesnt 
concern the insurer of the policy, a separate firm.
What happened
Mr G took out a learner driver motor insurance policy for his daughter, Miss G, via a 
comparison website and through Collingwood, in January 2022. Miss G passed her driving 
test in July 2022, at which point Mr G added her to his own policy. Mr G noted that on 
Collingwoods website, it stated that a learner driver policy would become invalid once the 
learner passed their driving test. 
Miss G subsequently received a letter from Collingwood in December 2022 saying they had 
been informed by the DVLA Miss G had passed her driving test. The letter added the insurer 
(a separate firm) specified in the policy terms and conditions the policy had to be cancelled 
when the driving test had been passed. So, the policy had been cancelled. If there was a 
shortfall on the policy, they would attempt to collect it. Mr G contacted Collingwood and was 
told that a learner policy became invalid (cancelled) when the learner passed their driving 
test. At which point a cancellation fee of £35 was applied (by Collingwood). 
Miss G and Mr G were unhappy at the £35 charge, saying it was an additional charge most 
learner drivers would have to pay (as most would pass their test within the period of the 
policy). So, it should clearly advertised alongside the cost of the policy. Miss G and Mr G 
complained to Collingwood.
Collingwood didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said when taking out the 
policy, Miss G and Mr G would have been taken to their website. There, they would have 
had the option to view the full breakdown of costs and fees (prior to purchasing the policy). 
Collingwood added Miss G and Mr G would also have been presented with their terms of 
business, which detailed non-refundable fees they charged as an insurance intermediary. 
Miss G and Mr G would also have been asked to tell them when Miss G passed her driving 
test, at which point the policy would have been cancelled (and the cancellation terms would 
apply, including the £35 fee). Miss G and Mr G would have had to confirm their acceptance 
of the policy terms and conditions (and the terms of business) before the policy was issued.
But it was when Collingwood were creating the renewal documents for the policy in 
December 2022, they validated her driving licence details with DVLA and found she was no 
longer a learner driver. Collingwood couldnt contact Miss G, so cancelled the policy in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. Taking all these points into account, Collingwood 
concluded theyd provided all the necessary information to Miss G and Mr G to enable them 
to make an informed decision on whether to take out the policy.
Miss G and Mr G then complained to this service. They thought it unfair the £35 cancellation 
fee was charged, saying it should have been made clearer when the policy was taken out 
(given most learner drivers would expect to pass their driving test during the period covered 
by the policy). Theyd had to pay the £35, so wanted the cancellation fee to be made clearer 
so people were aware they had to pay the charge to end their policy. If theyd known about 
the charge when they took out the policy, they might have taken out cover elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding there wasnt any action for 
Collingwood to take. He noted the policy made it clear cover would cease when Miss G 
passed her driving test, so in cancelling the policy Collingwood acted in line within the policy 
terms. And when taking out the policy Miss G and Mr G would have been made aware of 
Collingwoods terms of business document, which clearly set out a table of fees, including a 
fee of £35 for cancellation of the policy. So, Miss G and Mr G should reasonably have been 
aware of the cancellation fee. So, Collingwood hadnt done anything wrong in cancelling the 
policy and applying the £35 cancellation fee.
Miss G and Mr G disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. While they accepted the £35 cancellation fee was in the policy terms 
and conditions, Collingwoods advertising stated the policy would cease on the learner driver 
passing their driving test  it didnt say it would be cancelled. So, this was misleading. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Collingwood have acted fairly towards Miss G and Mr G.
The key issue in Miss G and Mr Gs complaint is whether the £35 cancellation fee was made 
clear when they took out the policy. Miss G and Mr G feel it wasnt made clear (and should 
have been clearer). Collingwood say it was made clear from the policy terms and conditions 
and from their terms of business document, both of which Miss G and Mr G would have had 
to accept before proceeding to take out the policy.
In considering the issue, Ive first looked at the policy terms and conditions, several of which 
are relevant to this complaint. First, theres a section headed Important customer information 
followed by a sub-heading Notification of changes which may affect your insurance  
keeping us updated. This includes the statement:
To keep your insurance up to date please tell us straight away via your insurance 
intermediary about any changes which may affect your cover.
Some examples are:
You pass your driving test
Which makes it clear Miss G and Mr G should tell Collingwood when Miss G passed her 
driving test.
Theres also a section on cancellation of the policy which, under a heading Cancellation by 
us (immediate cessation of cover) includes the statement:
This is a non-exhaustive list of reasons why we may cancel your policy with 
immediate effect.
5. You pass your driving test.Which makes it clear passing a driving test may (in practice, will) mean cancellation of the 
policy (read alongside the earlier policy wording set out above).
Under Section 9. Permitted drivers and use of the Insured vehicle theres a statement that 
reads:
On passing your driving test all cover under this policy will cease other 
than the limited cover described above which permits your accompanying full 
licence holder to return the insured vehicle to your home/normal garaging 
address directly from the driving test centre
In the event that you pass your driving test, you must tell us immediately via 
your insurance intermediary to enable us to cancel the policy and calculate 
any refund of premium allowable.
Taking all these references into account, Ive concluded Miss G and Mr G should have been 
aware of the need to tell Collingwood (as the insurance intermediary) when Miss G passed 
her driving test. At that point the policy would have been cancelled. As Miss G and Mr G 
didnt notify Collingwood when Miss G passed her driving test, I think it reasonable for 
Collingwood to cancel the policy in December 2022 when they became aware she had 
passed the driving test (from validation checks with the DVLA).
As Ive concluded it was reasonable for Collingwood to cancel the policy, in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, when they became aware Miss G had passed her driving test, 
Ive then considered whether it was reasonable for them to charge the £35 cancellation fee.
In their final response, Collingwood refer to their terms of business document that would 
have been available for Miss G and Mr G to view when taking out the policy. Ive looked at 
the document and noted theres a section headed What will you have to pay for our 
services? Which includes the statement:
Our intermediary fees, which are non-refundable, are provided below:
5. Cancellation Fee £35.00
This makes it clear a £35 fee will apply if the policy is cancelled. It isnt specific as to the 
circumstances under which a policy is cancelled, which indicates the fee will apply in any 
circumstance where the policy is cancelled. That would include cancellation by Collingwood 
when it is notified (or otherwise becomes aware) that a learner driver has passed their 
driving test. Which is set out clearly in the policy terms and conditions extracts above.
As Miss G and Mr G would have been provided with a copy of the terms of business 
document when taking out the policy, I cant reasonably conclude they werent aware of the 
cancellation fee, and that it would apply in the circumstance where Miss G passed her 
driving test.
While Ive come to these conclusions, Ive also considered the point raised by Miss G and Mr 
G when disagreeing with our investigators view, about the advertising of the policy. Ive 
taken this to mean a Learning to Drive  A Parents Guide document produced by 
Collingwood (and on their website) which sets out various information about learning to drive 
etc. Theres a section in the document headed What happens after the driving test? Which 
includes the statement:It is important to remember however, that a Collingwood learner driver insurance 
policy will become invalid as your son or daughter will no longer be classed as a 
learner after passing their test.
The section goes on to refer to Collingwood offering new driver insurance policies.
While this reference doesnt explicitly state the policy will be cancelled when a learner driver 
passes their driving test, I think it reasonable to interpret the phrase policy will become 
invalid to mean it would be cancelled. 
Also, while the document is on Collingwoods website, the actual policy would be subject to 
the full terms and conditions, and Collingwoods schedule of fees contained in their terms of 
business document. Both of which would have been available to Miss G and Mr G (and their 
acceptance of them required before the policy could be taken out) before the policy could 
proceed. So, this doesnt change my conclusion Miss G and Mr G should reasonably have 
been aware of the policy being cancelled from the point Miss G passed her driving test. And 
that a £35 cancellation fee would be applied in those circumstances.
So, Ive concluded Collingwood acted reasonably in cancelling the policy and applying the 
£35 cancellation fee.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss G and Mr Gs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman