DRN-3231494
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she couldnt make a transfer from her Online Saver account run by 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI).
What happened
Mrs P had an Online Saver account from the Post Office - which was run by BOI. I will refer 
to BOI in this decision. The account was opened in April 2020, with a linked bank account. 
The interest rate was 0.76% per annum. On 31 July 2020, Mrs P credited the Online Saver 
with £50,852.33. On 3 August 2020, she tried a make an internet transfer from the Online 
Saver account but was not able to that. She called BOI but the department that needed to 
sort things out was closed  as it was a bank holiday in Ireland. On 4 August 2020, she 
called again and the transfer of £50,850.00 was made.
Mrs P complained. She said shed opened her account with the Post Office in the UK  so it 
wasnt fair that she couldnt speak to BOI when it wasnt a UK bank holiday. She said it was 
BOIs error that the transfer wasnt made  because the Online Saver hadnt been set up 
properly. She said shed lost out on interest and had a lot of time wasted through having to 
call BOI.
BOI said the reason the internet transfer didnt work is that when Mrs P set up her Online 
Saver account - the linked bank account details didnt check out. So, they noted that on the 
account  this meant that transfers from it couldnt be made. And when the transfer was 
declined  they asked Mrs B to call them to validate the transfer. They said they did it this 
way to prevent fraud. They were sorry that Mrs P had the inconvenience of having to call 
them  and for the one-day delay in making the transfer. But it was a bank holiday in Ireland 
where they ran the Post Office accounts from. They didnt consider that any compensation 
was justified.
Mrs P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator considered that BOI acted fairly. But Mrs 
P didnt agree and asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P complains that she couldnt make a transfer from her Post Office Online Saver 
account. She says that was BOIs error as it had been set up wrongly. As a result, she had 
to call BOI on 3 August 2020. And when she got through, the team that needed to work on 
her account to enable the transfer was on a bank holiday  as they worked in Ireland. Mrs P 
says she was inconvenienced as she needed to call BOI, and she lost one days interest.
We asked BOI about what had happened. When Mrs Ps Online Saver account was opened, 
she added a linked bank account  which would be used to make transfers from the Online 
Saver. But  when BOI did this, they checked that the bank details are correct. They said 
they do this to prevent possible fraud  they want to ensure any transfers go to the right 
person. In Mrs Ps case, they couldnt confirm that  and so put a block on transfers. That 
meant Mrs P had to call BPI on 3 August 2020. We asked BOI why they didnt advise Mrs P 
of that when the account was opened  and they said that they didnt do that as in itself it 
could lead to fraud. 
Ive considered what BOI have said and I think theyve provided credible and understandable 
reasons for what happened. Its an unfortunate fact the banking fraud is increasing and BOI, 
along with other banks, have security measures in place to protect their customers from 
fraud  and this is one of them.
What this meant was that Mrs P had to call BOI to make the transfer. And when she did that 
on 3 August 2020  the team that needed to do that wasnt working as it was a bank holiday 
in Ireland. When she called the following day, the block was removed and the transfer made.
Mrs P says she lost one days interest on her new account. We asked her to provide us with 
the interest rates of the account to which she transferred the money, but unfortunately she 
couldnt. Ive considered this  and thinking about the rates that were on offer in the market 
at the time  the lost interest wouldve been very little  probably less than £1. So  I dont 
think there was a considerable financial loss.
Mrs P says she was inconvenienced in having to call BOI. But given their processes (as Ive 
described) she was always going to have to call them to make the transfer. So  I dont 
consider there was any additional inconvenience for her as a result. And Ive already said 
that I think BOIs security checks were reasonable.
Mrs P also say that she signed up for a UK account, and not one that was run in Ireland. I 
looked at the Post Office Money website  it states clearly that its savings accounts are run 
by Bank of Ireland (UK) plc. So, I agree thats a UK company. But we cant tell a business 
where it runs its operations from. And equally, a business based in Ireland is obliged to 
recognise its bank holidays. And so, while it caused a one-day delay for Mrs P, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of BOI to do that.
And so, having considered Mrs Ps complaint, I wont be asked BOI to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman