DRN-2893494
The complaint
Mr F complains that Allianz Insurance PLC (Allianz) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance policy with a store card. 
Allianz was not the direct seller of the card or the PPI but it has assumed responsibility for 
this sale. To make things more straightforward I refer to Allianz as the seller in this decision.
What happened
Mr F took out a store card with Allianz in 1991. At the same time he bought a PPI policy 
which would have covered the repayments if Mr F hadnt been able to work due to an 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. 
Mr F isnt clear about why he thinks the PPI was mis-sold but he has indicated that it wasnt 
explained to him properly and that it may have been sold to him unfairly because there was 
strong selling of PPI at the time.
The adjudicator who reviewed Mr Fs complaint thought that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr F 
disagrees, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
that into account when considering this complaint. Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. I will explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr F took out his store card when he filled out a leaflet in store. Ive seen a copy of that 
application form and I can see there is a separate section for the PPI. It makes it clear that 
the PPI is optional. Mr F has ticked the box for PPI and has signed the completed form.
Mr F says that there were strong selling tactics in use at the time which seems to be a 
statement about the selling of PPI more generally, because he hasnt suggested that he 
remembers a conversation with any member of staff when he completed the form. He points 
out the wording in the PPI section which says Allianz strongly recommends customers take 
out the PPI. But the optional nature of the policy was clear, and I dont think Mr F was forced 
to select the PPI. I think he chose to buy it knowing that it was optional. 
Allianz didnt advise Mr F to buy the policy. Mr F says that it did, because the wording in the 
PPI section strongly recommending the purchase. But Mr F has said he cant remember 
speaking to anyone, so I dont think Allianz gave Mr F a personal recommendation based on 
his personal circumstances. So, it didnt need to make sure the policy was right for him. 
But even if it had, I dont think it would have made a difference in this case. I say this 
because I think the policy was right for Mr F. I have reached this conclusion because:
Mr F was eligible for the cover and wasnt negatively affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim. For 
example, he wasnt self-employed, and he didnt have an existing medical condition 
which might have been excluded from cover.
Mr F cant remember how much sick pay or redundancy pay he would have received 
from his employer. He indicates that they both would have been generous but hasnt 
been able to provide any evidence of this. He has indicated that his sick pay would 
have been on a discretionary basis which isnt guaranteed.  In the absence of any 
evidence to show Mr Fs income would have been maintained in full for 12 months 
the benefit would have paid out I think its likely the policy provided a useful addition 
to his contractual entitlement if anything went wrong.
Mr F says that he had critical illness cover for his mortgage at the time. But this isnt 
the same as PPI and would have only paid out in very specific circumstances. It was 
also intended to cover his mortgage, not the payments on his store card.
The cost of the policy was in line with other providers at the time of sale and doesnt 
seem to have been unaffordable for Mr F.
Its possible Allianz didnt provide all the information Mr F needed to make a fully informed 
decision about the PPI. For example, it doesnt look as if it told Mr F that he would pay 
interest on the premiums if he didnt pay it all off each month. But even if it had I dont think 
Mr F would have acted differently and not bought the policy because it was suitable for him 
in the way Ive described above.
Mr F has explained that his wife made a similar complaint to the same business and her 
complaint was upheld by Allianz. He intimates on that basis his complaint should be upheld 
too. I dont know the circumstances of Mr Fs wifes complaint and I cannot comment on 
Allianzs decision to uphold it as each case is considered by this service on its individual 
merits.  
On the information available to me I dont think Mr F has lost out as a result of anything 
Allianz might have done wrong. So, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
I have not upheld Mr Fs complaint and so it follows that Allianz Insurance PLC does not 
have to do anything further.
Mr F has indicated that he intends to take legal action in respect of this complaint, which he 
is entitled to do if he chooses not to accept this decision. However, this decision is the final 
stage for this service, and we are unable to help him further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman