DRN-2951826
The complaint
 Mr S complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) who rejected his claim following a 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
 
What happened
 Mr S roof was damaged due to bad weather. He contacted IPA who sent a surveyor to 
assess the damage. The claim was accepted. Mr S was told that the funds had been 
allocated and he was given the authority to carry out the repairs. 
Due to the government restrictions at the time, Mr S couldnt get the repairs carried out until 
much later. Mr S contacted IPA when the repairs were completed and asked it to reimburse 
the £700 that it cost him for the repairs. But IPA declined to pay because of the passage of 
time and that it no longer considered the leak an emergency.  
Mr S complained to IPA saying that the repairs had already been authorised. IPA offered 
£150 to settle the claim, which was rejected by Mr S, who then referred a complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the claim and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that storm conditions were not met, that the damage caused was unlikely to have been 
sudden and so IPA were fair in declining the claim. He said that the reimbursement that IPA 
authorised for use to prevent further damage or delays, was unfair because there was no 
cover for it. He felt that the £150 offered was reasonable and that there was nothing further 
he could ask IPA to do. 
Mr S didnt accept the view. He said that there were storm conditions. That IPA had already 
accepted the claim when it gave him the authority to obtain quotes and carry out the work, 
which it agreed to reimburse. So, it wasnt fair for it to now decline the claim. He asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 23 July 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 22 
August 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents and can see that Mr S had a home emergency policy. 
I have also been provided with the claim reimbursement form. The main issue in this 
complaint is whether Mr S was given authority to carry out the repair work and whether IPA 
agreed to reimburse. 
Mr S said that there were storm conditions when the leak occurred as there were heavy 
rains. I have had a look at the weather reports at the time and the definition of a storm in the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were prevailing storm conditions 
at the time of the claim. If I am not satisfied there were, I must decide if IPA ought to have 
considered the claim under any other section of the policy.  
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally, 
reasonably decline a claim. 
Mr S policy gives a definition of what IPA classes as a storm. It says: Wind speeds with 
gusts of at least 47mph / 75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm/one inch per 
hour or snow to a depth of at least one foot/30 cm in 24 hours or hail of such intensity that it 
causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
I have considered the local weather reports which are typically the best evidence I can rely 
on to check whether there were prevailing storm conditions. These show that at around the 
time of the claim, the wind speed wasnt sufficiently strong enough and there wasnt heavy 
enough rainfall, that would meet the requirements of the policy. So, I am satisfied that storm 
conditions werent present at the time. 
However, it seems that IPA didnt decline Mr S claim immediately but authorised him to 
carry out the repairs and to send in his invoice for reimbursement. In the contact notes it 
said: Agreed for customer to use the remainder of her policy £750.92 to use her own 
engineer to prevent further delays and damage. Advised her to send in report and paid 
invoice to reimbursements. 
Following on from receiving the verbal authorisation to carry out the repairs, Mr S said that 
he requested that the authorisation be in writing and was told that the claim form would be 
proof of authorisation. I havent seen any evidence from IPA that is contrary to this.
I have been provided with the reimbursement claim form which lists conditions that a 
policyholder must fulfil before seeking reimbursement. One of the conditions is that what is 
being claimed for, must be pre-approved by IPA.  Given the evidence, Im satisfied that IPA 
gave Mr S permission to carry out the repairs, up to the remainder of the policy limit and 
advised him to send in his invoice for reimbursement. So, I dont think it was reasonable for 
IPA to have declined the claim.
 Putting things right
Given the circumstances, I think its fair for IPA to put matters right. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S didnt respond. IPA has agreed with my provisional decision and it said that it has now 
paid £700 which has reimbursed the invoice that Mr S paid. So, my final decision is the 
same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
  
My final decision
 Inter Partner Assistance SA to refund the invoice of £700, which has now been paid, which 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman