DRN-3824050
The complaint
Mrs D complains that a yearly renewable term assurance plan has ended without any 
surrender value now the life assured  Mrs Ds husband  has reached a certain age.
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited are now the company responsible for the sale of the plan. Ill 
refer to Phoenix to mean them and their predecessors.
What happened
Mrs D took this plan out in 1996. A key features document from the time explained that the 
plan would end when its life assured reached the age of 70. Review letters over the years 
also look to have referred to an end date for the plan in 2022. 
The plan could have been turned into a whole-of-life policy  which is more what Mrs D says 
she thought it was. But the key features document explains the option to do that ended when 
the life assured reached the age of 60. That appears to have been some years before Mrs D 
realised the plan would end and complained. 
Phoenix considered the documents available from the time the plan was sold. They felt the 
sale had been suitable for Mrs D, and that the plan had worked as intended. They decided 
not to uphold the complaint. 
Mrs D brought the matter to us, but one of our investigators also thought the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He too felt the plan was suitable for Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, 
and had worked as the documents over the years had consistently said it would. 
Mrs D didnt feel that was a fair outcome, so the complaint has come to me for a formal 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mrs D will be disappointed, I too have decided not to uphold this 
complaint. 
Looking at the documents from the time of the sale in 1996, I can see this plan has always 
had an end date to it. And the key features document confirms it wouldnt have a surrender 
value at any point. Unless the option to extend the policy was taken up, the only way this 
plan would pay anything out would be if the life assured died before they reached 70. 
That seems to have been intended to achieve relatively cheap life insurance cover for the 
period where Mrs D and her husband could be expected to be paying family related 
expenses. That was consistent with what the documents from 1996 indicate about their 
family and financial position. 
So I find the policy was suitable for Mrs D, as it met her needs at the time. I cant see 
anything in the documents from the time  or from later years  that said the policy would 
last in the way Mrs D seems to have been expecting. 
I can appreciate Mrs D feels Phoenix should have done more to tell her when the option to 
extend the plan into a whole-of-life policy was coming to an end. But I dont think Phoenix 
had to do that in order to provide a fair service. 
There arent any rules that say they must remind customers about option period endings. It 
was enough that their review letters contained the plans end date and invited Mrs D to 
discuss it with them if she had any questions. 
Ultimately, this plan seems to have been reasonable to meet Mrs Ds needs at the time it 
was sold. And it has worked in the way the documents said it would. Its unfortunate Mrs D 
seems to have had a different expectation about how the plan would work. But I cant see 
anything here that shows Phoenix should be responsible for that misunderstanding. 
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman