DRN-3685257
The complaint
Mr A complains about CMC Spreadbet Plcs decision to close his account. He claims this 
was done unlawfully and has caused him financial losses. He complains about its decision to 
restrict trading in a currency pair, its decision not to treat him as an elective professional 
client and the holding costs he continued to accrue following CMC Spreadbet Plcs decision 
to close his account. He also complains that he was spoken to inappropriately during a 
telephone call. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint, but it didnt agree it should be upheld. 
She said that on 21 February 2022 CMC decided set to reduce only currency pairs trading 
on Russian Ruble. This was due to the lack of liquidity caused by the conflict in Ukraine and 
was something it was entitled to do under the terms of the account he had opened. She 
thought this was fair and reasonable. 
She said that she had listened to the call Mr A had on 1 March 2022 with CMC. In that call it 
was clear that Mr A had asked to become an elective professional client, but he did not meet 
the criteria. She explained what the criteria was and concluded that he did not meet two of 
the three criteria required  as a result, CMCs decision not to classify him as an elective 
professional client was fair and reasonable. 
The investigator considered Mr As complaint about the account closure. She outlined 
CMCs decision was based on the fact that Mr A had continued to express his unhappiness 
with CMCs decision not to classify him as an elective professional client, and that he had 
continue to threaten CMC with legal action and claiming losses of £1,000 per hour for each 
hour he wasnt classified as an elective professional client. She said that CMC had also 
taken into account the fact that he approached its employees by contacting them via 
professional networking websites. She said the terms of CMCs service that Mr A agreed to 
give CMC the right to close his account by giving ten business days notice. She said that 
CMC had given Mr A notice on 4 March 2022, and it had in fact given him more than 10 
days notice. She concluded that CMC was entitled to close his account in the way that it did 
and didnt consider it had treated him unfairly. 
She also said that as Mr A had to continue to have positions open in his account, he 
continued to incur holding charges  and it wasnt unfair for CMC to apply those charges in 
the circumstances. If Mr A didnt want to continue paying those charges, he wasnt 
prevented from closing his trades. 
Finally, she reviewed the call Mr A had with CMC where he said he was spoken to 
inappropriately. She agreed that the adviser had on occasion displayed some frustration, but 
equally considered that Mr A didnt help matters by continuing to accuse the advisor and 
CMC of being complicit in criminal activity. She considered that CMCs apologies for any 
offence caused were sufficient. 
Mr A didnt agree and raised some additional points. He said he felt he wasnt given enough 
notice by CMC, and that it went against the nature of derivatives to expect him not to open 
new trades. He also said that CMC had discriminated against him by closing the account on 
the following four grounds:
His name gave away a different ethnicity.
He was non-binary.
He had previously exposed CMC to other regulators for breaches of regulations.
He was a profitable client which went against CMCs interests. 
The investigator looked into these allegations  she also asked CMC for more information. 
Having reviewed this, she concluded that Mr As allegations were not substantiated. She 
said that CMC hadnt gathered any information in relation to his ethnicity or his gender 
identity, and therefore this couldnt have formed part of its decision to close the account. She 
said it was required by law to ask about his nationality, which it did, but saw no evidence to 
conclude that this played any part in its decision to close his account. 
She also said that CMC was not aware of any other previous FCA or regulatory actions Mr A 
may have taken, and so this was also not taken into account. She said that CMC reiterated 
that it had made the decision to close his account based on his continuing dissatisfaction, his 
repeated threats of legal action for loss of profits amounting to £1,000 per hour, and the fact 
that he had contacted staff multiple times and at various departments and his general 
dissatisfaction with the service it was providing to him. The investigator said that her initial 
answer therefore hadnt changed and concluded that Mr A hadnt been treated unfairly. 
Mr A still didnt agree, and therefore asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. He 
subsequently said that he had tried to open an account with CMC again, and this time had 
been able to. He said this showed that his account had been closed unfairly in the past. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I also dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said. 
Ive nothing to add to CMCs decision to restrict trading on the Russian Ruble market. The 
terms (s.4.1.1) clearly allowed CMC to take this decision, and it has explained why the 
prevailing circumstances at the time had affected the liquidity of the instrument to the extent 
that it felt it was necessary to take this action. Im satisfied this decision was fair and 
reasonable, and Mr A was not treated unfairly as a result. 
I also dont have anything to add to CMCs decision not to classify Mr A as an elective 
professional client. The investigator has clearly set out the criteria in the FCAs Conduct of 
Business Rules (COBS), and CMC couldnt deviate from this criteria. 
Im satisfied Mr A didnt meet two of the three criteria, and therefore he couldnt be classified 
as an elective professional client. 
Ive considered CMCs decision to close Mr As account. The terms (s.9.5.2) allowed CMC to 
close Mr As account by giving at least 10 days notice in writing. The terms didnt require CMC to give a reason for taking such action. It has explained it did so because of the 
background to Mr As contact  including his threats of legal action and contacting staff 
members on networking sites. Taking this into account, Im satisfied it followed the terms 
when it wrote to Mr A to tell him his account had been limited to close-only. 
Mr A was entitled to open an account elsewhere if he felt his strategy required the opening of 
trades while closing his positions on CMCs platform. I dont agree CMC treated him unfairly 
by limiting his account, and Im satisfied it gave Mr A sufficient time to manage his trades 
(and far longer than the ten days it was required to). On this note, I agree with the 
investigator that the holding costs remained payable for as long as he had open positions on 
the account  I see no reason why it would be fair and reasonable to have those waived. 
I agree with the investigators conclusions in relation to the call Mr A had during which he 
said he was treated inappropriately. Im satisfied the call was challenging for a number of 
reasons, not all of them to do with CMC  and as such, Im satisfied its apology and 
reassurance of action taken was sufficient for the matter to be put right. 
Mr A has made serious allegations about being discriminated against. Im not persuaded he 
has provided any evidence that any of the grounds he has alleged were in fact reasons for 
why his account was closed. Im satisfied the evidence shows that none of those reasons 
played a part in CMCs decision, particularly in view of the fact that it did not have some of 
the information Mr A says was used to discriminate against him. In my view, Mr As conduct, 
his dissatisfaction with CMCs service and his repeated threats of legal action led CMC to 
conclude that it was unable to provide Mr A with the service he wanted  and this was a 
decision it was entitled to make, for the reasons Ive already given. 
Finally, Mr A has said that he has recently been able to open an account. He says this 
shows that CMCs previous decision was wrong. Im not persuaded Mr As ability to now 
open an account has any bearing on CMCs previous decision to close it. As the investigator 
has explained, it isnt for this service to tell CMC who it should do business with  thats 
something for its own commercial discretion, which it has applied in this case. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman