DRN-3785980
The complaint
Miss M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) irresponsibly granted her a loan she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In March 2019 Miss M acquired a car and financed the deal through a conditional sale 
agreement with PSA. She was required to make 60 monthly payments of £158.90. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £10,235 towards which Miss M also paid a deposit of 
£700.
Miss M says that PSA didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. PSA didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included a review of Miss Ms credit file. They didnt find 
Miss M was behind with payments and didnt think there were any burdensome credit 
commitments on her file. They say Miss M told them she was in regular employment and 
they believed the loan was therefore affordable for her.
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld. He thought PSA ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Miss M.
PSA didnt agree and said there was no evidence Miss M was struggling to meet her 
repayments until after the agreement had started; when she had a car accident and told 
them she was no longer able to work. They explained Miss M had told them she was 
working as a carer at the time of the application and as she was living with parents and the 
repayments on this agreement were relatively modest, as were her credit commitments, they 
didnt think it necessary to conduct more detailed checks.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PSA will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Whilst its fair to say Miss M did have a responsibility to provide accurate information, PSA 
were obliged to perform reasonable and proportionate checks to establish whether the 
agreement was sustainably affordable for Miss M. I dont think they did that. 
Miss M told them she was in full time employment but, given the size of the loan and the 
likely modest income of someone working as a carer, I think PSA should have verified that 
income. I havent been provided with evidence that was the case and I dont accept it was 
reasonable to assume that because Miss M was living with her parents and had modest 
credit commitments that was sufficient to demonstrate the loan was sustainably affordable.
I think it would have been proportionate for PSA to have verified Miss Ms income in some 
way. Miss Ms bank statements dont show any regular sources of income and I think PSA 
would likely have found this out too if it had completed proportionate checks. I dont think on 
that basis that Miss M could reasonably have been expected to sustainably afford the 
repayments on this agreement and I dont therefore think PSA acted fairly when approving 
the finance. 
I think Miss M has also experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of PSAs 
actions. Shes explained to us that its impacted on her mental health and caused her quite a 
bit of anxiety, and that it may well have impacted on her credit file and ability to obtain credit 
elsewhere. In the circumstances, Im persuaded that PSA should pay her £250 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
Putting things right
As I dont think PSA Finance ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for 
them to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. But Miss M did have 
use of the goods for around 15 months, so, I think its fair she pays for that use.
But Im not persuaded the monthly payments of £158.90 a month are a fair reflection of what 
fair usage would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards 
interest. There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair monthly repayment would be 
to reflect Miss Ms usage. But in deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the 
amount of interest charged on the agreement, Miss Ms overall use of the car and what her 
costs to stay mobile would likely have been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a 
fair amount Miss M should pay is £139 for each month she had use of the car. This means 
that PSA Finance can only ask her to repay a total of £2,085.
To settle Miss Ms complaint, PSA Finance should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay unless, as seems the case, this has 
already been done.
Refund all the payments Miss M has made (including the deposit), less £2,085 for fair 
usage. 
oIf Miss M has paid more than the fair usage figure, PSA should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Miss M has paid less than the fair usage figure, PSA should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once PSA has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding the agreement.
Pay Miss M £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires PSA Finance to take off tax from this interest. PSA 
Finance must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if Miss M 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct PSA Finance UK Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman