DRN-1665571
Complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy. Mr and Mrs H, who are represented by a third party, say Nationwide Building Society, 
then trading a Cheshire Building Society, mis-sold them the policy in March 1991. 
Background
The policy was sold when Mr and Mrs H decided to buy MPPI to go with a mortgage theyd 
taken out in 1983 with a term of 20 years. The policy covered Mr H if he was unable to work 
or lost his job.  
Mr and Mrs H say they werent given a choice about taking out MPPI and didnt want or need 
it. 
Our adjudicator who looked at their complaint recommended that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicator so their complaint has been passed to me to for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs H say they bought the MPPI at a meeting. However, from what I 
know about the sale, Nationwide didnt provide a personalised recommendation to 
Mr and Mrs H about the MPPI. But it still had to give them information about the cover that 
was clear enough for them to make an informed choice.
The sale happened almost 30 years ago. Ive no doubt Mr and Mrs H will have given us their 
best recollection of events. But I need to also consider the possibility that they may not fully 
remember what happened at the time of the sale. In particular, I see that they bought the 
policy several years after taking out the mortgage. I think thats an important factor, given 
that Mr and Mrs H say they werent given a choice when they bought the MPPI cover. It also 
leads me to question whether they bought the MPPI at a meeting. 
Although the actual MPPI sale paperwork is no longer available, Ive seen a sample of the 
MPPI application form that was most likely provided to them to fill out. The form states at the 
top I wish to apply for cover in accordance with the details below. Mr H would then have to 
complete the form, including the amount of their mortgage payment he was making, before 
signing it. He would then have been sent a statement of cover, confirming the details of the 
policy. Given that the sale happened this way, I think its enough for me to reasonably say that 
Mr and Mrs H made a choice about buying MPPI and knew they didnt have to buy it if they 
didnt want to. 
Its not clear exactly what information Mr and Mrs H wouldve received, although I notice that 
the application form included a summary about how the policy worked Mr and Mrs H say the 
terms and conditions werent explained to them. Its possible they didnt get all the 
information they ideally shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference to their 
decision to take the policy because:
From what Ive seen, I also think Mr H was eligible for the cover and I dont think he 
would have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
types of policy.
 
Mr H told us that he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer, being more 
than six months but less than twelve months. He also told us about some savings. 
 But, given that in the event of a successful claim the policy would pay for up to 
twelve months, and in addition to his employer benefits, I think Mr and Mrs H would 
more likely have found having the cover in place to be reassuring. And Ive kept in 
mind that the mortgage was secured against their home which would be at risk if they 
couldnt cover their monthly mortgage premiums.
 
Although Nationwide havent been able to give us details of the policy cost prior to 
1994, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the 
cost of the policy and they havent told us that they found the monthly premiums to 
be unaffordable.
 
In summary, it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs H decided that it would be worthwhile to buy 
MPPI cover to go with their existing mortgage, being a significant and long-term financial 
commitment and I still think it could have been useful if things went wrong.  
Taking all the evidence into account, I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman