DRN-3416078
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in 
relation to a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS). Portal processed the 
transfer of Mr Ms OPS benefits on an insistent client basis to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). Portal recommended the investments within the SIPP to Mr M, including 
investing in several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M has said he first contacted Portal, in 2012, after seeing an advert about potentially 
being able to access his pension earlier than his normal retirement age, as he wanted to see 
if this was right for him.
Portal gathered information about Mr Ms existing pension and sent him a letter on 
22 November 2012, inviting him to have a full review. The letter talked about the current 
issues affecting the pensions market, saying Right now traditional pensions are taking a 
hammering and that the majority of pensions are linked to the stock markets which the letter 
described as having been in turmoil for some time. The letter went on to say that if the 
right investments are chosen they can still perform very well for you. As part of our 
conversation we can discuss how to make your existing policy work much harder. The letter 
also commented on annuity rates being low and said If you decide to release some tax free 
cash from your pension then one of the things we would do is set up your pension so that 
you dont have to purchase an annuity when you decide to retire.
The letter then went on to set out the transfer value of Mr Ms pension and the critical yield, 
(the growth rate required to match his OPS benefits) but said this would be discussed in 
more detail when Mr M called to talk about his options. It then talked about some of Mr Ms 
options, including releasing tax-free cash (TFC) and set out how much he may have been 
able to take, £18,114. 
A telephone conversation took place shortly after this in which Portal gathered further 
information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. Portal has provided a copy of a fact 
find where this information was recorded  by its adviser  dated 28 November 2012. The 
fact find recorded that Mr M wanted to take maximum TFC to purchase a car for work, create 
an emergency fund and pay off debt. The fact find also included a section where answers to 
questions asked about attitude to risk (ATR) were recorded.
Portal then sent Mr M another letter, also on 28 November 2012. This letter said;
You currently have a pension with [former employer] which has a Transfer Value of £72,459, 
from which you could release a total amount of £18,114 as a tax free lump sum. However, 
as the Critical Yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with [former 
employer]) is 10.14% it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you 
will be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £4,866 per annum which is 
payable at retirement age 65.
If you decide that you still wish to proceed, we can help you release money from your 
pension, but we would have to treat you as an insistent client, as this would be against our 
recommendation. We would, therefore, require you to complete the attached insistent client 
form confirming that you are aware of the benefits you would be relinquishing.
I enclose a form detailing the various options available to you. Please can you arrange to 
complete and return the forms to Portal Financial Services. Upon receipt, we will arrange to 
send out all the relevant application forms and Suitability Report detailing our advice.
The letter included a form Mr M could complete with a declaration, pre-drafted by Portal, 
saying he wanted to proceed as an insistent client.
I understand Mr M completed and returned the form. And on 3 December 2012 Portal sent 
Mr M a pension release report, or suitability report, setting out its advice. 
The suitability report first listed Mr Ms objectives. It said these were to use his existing 
pension to provide an income at a later date but to take his TFC entitlement immediately. It 
said he wanted to retain his residual fund which would be invested until he required a 
retirement income. And he wanted to ensure he had good awareness of investment 
opportunities, that the portfolio reflected his risk profile, be kept informed of the performance 
of the portfolio and have access to a system to allow him to monitor his investments. 
It went on to discuss Mr Ms circumstances. It said he was 55 and his highest priority was to 
preserve your fund for as long as possible, currently taking no income while retaining the 
flexibility of your pension fund and to take your Tax Free Cash. The report noted that Mr M 
was living in rented accommodation and didnt own a property, unemployed and claiming 
associated benefits. It said Mr M had outstanding debts of approximately £25,000 but didnt 
include details of how much the monthly repayments were  even though the fact find 
referenced this indicating payments were frozen with repayments of £60 agreed moving 
forward. Mr Ms marital status and dependents were not noted, although again the fact find 
recorded that he was single and had no dependents. The report again said the reason for 
wanting TFC was to reduce debts, create an emergency fund and purchase a new car. The 
suitability report also said Portal had assessed that Mr M had a balanced ATR.
In terms of Mr Ms existing pension, the suitability report again said it had a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of £72,459. It also talked again about a critical yield of 10.14% and 
said that Mr M had a guaranteed minimum pension through his existing scheme but did not 
list how much this was. The covering letter accompanying the suitability report suggested 
that under the existing scheme Mr M would be entitled to an annual income of £5,485 and 
TFC of £13,426 at age 65. Again, this information was not referenced in the suitability report 
itself, and differed from the information Portal gave in its letter of 28 November 2012.
In the section of the report titled Your situation Portal said it is against my recommendation 
to transfer your benefits. But that Mr M had decided he still wanted to proceed and on that 
basis it could still help him release money from his pension.
In the Recommendation section of the report, Portal went on to say it recommend that Mr M 
transfer to a SIPP, take the maximum available TFC and then invest in a portfolio Portal 
recommended. It said doing so would allow Mr M to receive TFC, use that for the purposes it 
had previously listed, structure the portfolio to match his risk and reward profile and have 
greater long term flexibility.
The portfolio Portal recommended that Mr M invest in consisted of:45% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
10% Cool Blue Fractional Plus Fund (also known as the Cool Blue Samui Fund)
20% Venture Oil International
12.5% EOS Solar Energy
12.5% Cash Deposit
the first four of which being unregulated collective investment schemes.
The transfer went ahead on the basis of this recommendation.
I understand that since then a number of the recommended funds have not performed in line 
with the initial outlined projections and have since been given a nominal value of £0.0001 
per unit by the SIPP provider.
Mr M complained to Portal in January 2020. Mr M argued he was not an insistent client and 
Portal had directed him down this route. He felt the transfer from his existing pension and the 
portfolio Portal recommended were both unsuitable, taking into account his attitude to risk. 
And he felt Portal was aware of this but used the insistent client process in order to progress 
the transaction and receive commission.
Portal initially said that it believed the complaint had been made outside of the time limits set 
by the regulator. But it did say, without admission of liability, if the issues with interest 
payments from the funds have not been resolved by Mr Ms state retirement age, they 
(Portal) will personally pay Mr M a retirement income, based upon the originally expected 
performance of his funds and the prevailing annuity rates. They will continue to pay this to 
Mr M until the fund's situation is resolved and Mr M can take his income directly from them. 
Mr M will not need to reimburse (Portal) for these payments at any future date.
The matter was referred to our service. An ombudsman colleague decided that we did have 
jurisdiction to consider the matter as, although the complaint was brought more than six 
years after the events complained about, Mr M only reasonably wouldve been aware of 
having reason to complain more recently. And the complaint was raised within three years of 
that knowledge.
One of our Investigators then gave an opinion on the merits of the complaint. They felt the 
complaint should be upheld, that Portal should be required to pay compensation and £250 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. This was because the Investigator didnt think, 
from the evidence theyd seen, that Mr M had sufficient knowledge and understanding of the 
risks involved with the transaction  because Portal had not made this clear enough. So, 
they didnt think Mr M shouldve been classed as an insistent client. And they didnt think the 
recommendation made, including that a large portion of Mr Ms funds be invested in high risk 
unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS), was suitable.
Portal disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It said it felt it hadnt done anything wrong by 
classing Mr M as an insistent client. It said it had explained its recommendation and reasons 
why in the letter of 28 November 2012 and Mr M had taken the decision to proceed, fully 
aware of the risks. And it said it felt Mr M would always have gone ahead with the transfer, 
as he wanted to release the maximum available tax-free cash.
Our Investigator said they werent inclined to alter their opinion. They noted Mr M had no 
investment experience at the time of approaching Portal and was reliant on the advice provided. And they still felt Mr M was not provided clear enough information to understand 
enough about the transaction and its risks to be considered an insistent client.
Portal continued to disagree with the Investigators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
I think it should be noted that Ive reviewed the previous Ombudsmans decision on whether 
our service has powers to investigate this complaint and Ive seen nothing which makes me 
disagree with the outcome they reached. So, with that in mind, Ive considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Suitability of advice
Portal has argued that the advice it gave was suitable. This is because it says it did not 
recommend that Mr M transfer his pension, but that he insisted on doing so. And so, after he 
insisted, it recommended a provider and investments which it feels were right for him. But for 
the reasons Ill explain, which are largely the same as those explained by our Investigator, I 
dont agree that Portals actions were appropriate or fair.
COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client. And, as part of that, COBS 9.2 required Portal to take 
reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr M. To achieve this, 
COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough information from Mr M to ensure its 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related investment risks 
consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer
out of a defined benefits pension scheme;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to
make an informed decision;
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later
than when the key features document is provided; and
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the
client's best interests.
In short, Portal needed to begin by assuming a transfer from Mr Ms OPS was not suitable, 
then consider Mr Ms specific circumstances and objectives. It needed to assess the options 
available and look at what was in his best interests. It needed to provide a comparison of 
what the situation would be if he opted to transfer his pension from his OPS and what it 
would be if he didnt, making clear the differences and risks. And it needed to make sure that 
Mr M understood all of this information so that he could make an informed decision. All while 
ensuring it acted honestly, fairly and professionally.
The letter Portal sent to Mr M on 22 November 2012 was headed Re: Releasing Tax Free 
Cash from your Pension. We have now received the information we needed. So, the first 
thing mentioned was releasing money from the pension. Not a review or more general 
service but making a specific change to the current position of Mr Ms pension. This was 
before a detailed fact find had been completed to understand Mr Ms circumstances or 
needs. As I explained earlier, the letter also went on to talk, in quite negative terms, about 
both the pension and stock market  particularly traditional pension arrangements. And it 
made specific reference to Mr M being able to take tax free cash of £18,114. I accept there 
had been some contact prior to this letter  with an initial enquiry having been registered and 
an authority form signed by Mr M to allow Portal to contact his existing pension scheme. But 
I still think the letter indicates, before a meaningful fact find had been completed, the 
discussion being skewed towards a particular outcome.
Portal did complete a fact find with Mr M over the phone several days later. And they did 
gather some information about his circumstances, attitude to risk and his apparent 
requirements. But I have concerns about some of this information.
There doesnt appear to have been any information gathered about Mr Ms income needs in 
retirement. The answer to a question around this was simply listed as unknown. And I think 
it would be difficult, without an attempt having been made to understand this, for any 
recommendation to be entirely suitable for Mr Ms circumstances, bearing in mind the 
primary aim of a pension is to provide income in retirement. There is also nothing in the fact 
find to indicate that he had any other retirement provisions  suggesting he had limited 
capacity for risk with his OPS. But this isnt reflected in the risk profiling.
The fact find noted Mr M was in receipt of benefits, some of which were likely to be means 
tested. There is a note at the end of the fact that it would be left to Mr M to contact the 
relevant agency and look at what impact releasing funds would have on his benefit 
entitlement. But Mr M did not complete this fact find in person, so I cant say with certainty 
that this was discussed. And in any event, while I agree that only Mr M wouldve been able 
to obtain this information from the relevant benefit agencies, the answers received shouldve 
formed part of the considerations when giving professional advice. Rather than it being left to 
Mr M to decide, on receipt of this info, whether any advice was still appropriate.
The requirement noted was for maximum TFC to be used for a new car for work, to pay off 
some debts and to create an emergency fund. But Mr M was unemployed according to the 
fact find. And although he was hoping to return to work, this wasnt guaranteed. So nor was 
the need for a car. The debts that were listed in the fact find exceeded the amount of TFC 
available. So, would not have been paid off in full. The fact find also indicated there was an 
arrangement in place with the creditors to make fixed repayments, indicating clearing these debts partially was not a priority. So, in my opinion, the discussions around TFC seemed to 
be on how Mr M would spend the money if it was available, rather than what he needed and 
whether giving up guaranteed lifelong benefits and opting out his OPS was in his best 
interests. And again, this followed the earlier correspondence already suggesting this as the 
option that would be explored.
Portal recorded Mr M as having a balanced attitude to risk, based on the information 
recorded in the fact find. I think an argument could be made that some of the answers given 
do not support this  in particular Mr M is noted as having strongly agreed that he had little 
experience in investing, people would describe him as cautious and that he generally looked 
for safer investments and agreed to the statement that he preferred bank deposits to riskier 
investments. Not to mention the limited capacity for loss Ive already noted. I also feel, given 
he was an inexperienced investor, Mr Ms answers to some questions  particularly being 
concerned about the volatility of stock markets  mayve been influenced by the earlier 
correspondence sent by Portal which specifically referenced turmoil and recent poor 
performance.
So, Im not sure that the focus of the initial correspondence and the fact finding was what 
was in Mr Ms best interests. It seems to have been largely around how much TFC could 
potentially be taken and what this might be used for  not whether that was appropriate. And 
I think that could very well have misled Mr M into thinking that releasing TFC was what 
Portal thought was best. But on top of this, what Portal then sent to Mr M contained no 
meaningful comparison relating to transferring his OPS.
The same day as the fact find was completed, Portal sent Mr M a short letter. It again listed 
a transfer value and the amount of TFC that could be taken. But simply said it would be 
against Portals recommendation to transfer based on the critical yield alone. The letter did 
say Mr M would be giving up a guaranteed pension of £4,866 per annum at age 65. But 
besides this passing mention of the potential pension due under the OPS and the TFC  
which had already to that point been the emphasis of the correspondence  there was no 
comparison for Mr M to consider. There was also nothing recorded about Mr Ms 
requirements in that letter  despite Portal having noted these during the fact find. And it 
appears there had been no consideration given to any other ways that Mr M could potentially 
have met those requirements, if indeed he had a genuine need to do so. For example, Ive 
not seen anything to suggest any information was gathered about whether Mr M couldve 
potentially taken benefits from his OPS scheme early  given he was already aged 55 at the 
time of the advice. Portal may argue that Mr M would have declined this option, but based on 
what Ive seen it doesnt appear to have even been considered, discussed or outlined.
I think Portals conclusion that the critical yield was likely to make the transfer unsuitable was 
correct. But given the lack of any further significant comparison or information for Mr M to 
consider, I dont think Portal provided full and clear advice to Mr M, such that it left him in a 
position to make an informed decision  about the transfer or about being an insistent client. 
And I think the summary advice itself was then undermined. 
Immediately after saying transferring would be against its recommendation, Portal promoted 
the option of still releasing money from Mr Ms pension  the focus of the majority of the 
correspondence Ive seen  as being something it could assist with, provided he signed an 
enclosed form to proceed on an insistent client basis. It also encouraged these to be 
returned, at which point it said it would send out application forms and a suitability report 
detailing its advice  which I think should really have accompanied the letter itself and 
explained why Portal was not recommending the transfer, if this was its advice.
A suitability report was issued on 3 December 2012 (so five days after the initial letter 
recommending against the transfer) as Mr M had returned his insistent client form in the meantime. This is quite a fast turnaround time for the insistent client form to be returned and 
then a full further assessment of Mr Ms circumstances to be carried out to determine a 
suitable investment strategy  which is what Portal recommended.
I acknowledge this suitability report repeated that the transfer was against Portals 
recommendations. And it included some further risk warnings that, amongst other things, 
releasing funds early could reduce Mr Ms income in retirement, taking TFC at this stage 
would mean no further TFC could be taken later and by transferring away from the OPS 
Mr M would most likely be unable to reverse this decision. But it didnt give any context to 
the transfer not being recommended  particularly in relation to Mr Ms specific 
circumstances. There was no additional comparison of the benefits that Mr M would be 
entitled to under his OPS in comparison to those potentially available under a personal 
pension or SIPP  indeed the OPS benefits were not summarised at all within the suitability 
report itself. And it made no further reference to why potential alternatives to achieve Mr Ms 
apparent requirements had not been considered. 
The report also said if Mr M continued to pay his debt through monthly contributions, rather 
than taking TFC he will have a total repayment of £30,035.53 calculated at a market 
average rate of 10.55% APR on the debt, with a pension value of £122,355 based on 5% 
growth at retirement. But if he took TFC and used that to pay off his debt and paid the 
money he wouldve been putting towards the debt into his pension you will have total 
contributions into your pension of £36,042.64 (this has been grossed up due to tax relief) 
and a pension value of £132,679 based on 5% growth at retirement. This indicated to Mr M 
that hed potentially be better off in broad terms by transferring  which undermined previous 
statements by Portal to the contrary. So, I think generally these statements are misleading. 
They also contain omissions and unclear and unexplained assumptions that add to them, in 
my view, being misleading. To start with this section of the report doesnt make it clear how 
much debt being repaid the calculations are based on. Given Mr Ms debt exceeded the 
maximum TFC, and part of the TFC was apparently to be used for other purposes  so he 
clearly wouldnt have been able to clear the debt in full - I think this is important information 
that has been omitted.
Portal has assumed an interest rate on the debt  when it couldve obtained this information. 
And Im not sure the average market rate was appropriate as the fact find mentions 
repayments being frozen and then set at £60 per month suggesting an arrangement could 
already have been agreed with creditors. Which based on the limited information recorded, I 
think would likely have included concessions regarding interest rates. 
The statements made in the suitability report also make no reference to how much the 
assumed regular repayments towards the debt are. Those being the amount that would 
theoretically be saved to create total contributions Mr M could make to his pension in excess 
of £36,000. And, given the fact find indicates agreed payments of £60 in respect of the debt 
and Mr Ms age, the total additional contribution the report suggests Mr M could make to his 
pension seems unlikely to be correct given his time to retirement.
Again, I think this evidences Mr M not being given clear and full information, in order to make 
an informed decision.
The report also went on to recommend a transfer; to a specific provider, to set up a SIPP 
and invest in specific funds. And detailed extensive reasoning why Portal felt that option, and 
the specific investments  particularly the UCIS  were appropriate for Mr M. 
The covering letter accompanying the suitability report was also clear that the suitability 
report outlined Portals recommendation. And that following the recommendation would mean Mr M released tax-free cash  suggesting it in fact thought the transfer was 
appropriate. And it said it believed the recommendation made was suitable for Mr M  the 
course of action that facilitated the release of TFC, the transfer. 
The covering letter included a further declaration for Mr M to complete which repeated the 
acknowledgements in the insistent client declaration. But this notwithstanding, I think there 
was significant enough doubt and contradiction in the correspondence Mr M was sent over 
the course of less than two weeks for him to believe that Portal was in fact recommending a 
transfer.
I note the declaration in the letter of 3 December 2012 referred to the benefits that Mr M 
would be giving up as the option of taking £13,426 in TFC at age 65 and a pension of £5,485 
per annum. These figures were markedly different to those in the letter Portal had sent five 
days earlier. Which I think made it even more difficult for Mr M to make an informed decision 
due to the lack of consistency.  
As a result, I dont think the suitability report was sufficient as a recommendation not to 
proceed. It didnt explore Mr Ms objectives, and robustly test them, nor did it look into 
alternative ways of meeting those requirements, without releasing money from his OPS. It 
didnt provide any real meaningful comparison for Mr M to consider. And the correspondence 
in general muddied the waters, which I think on balance likely led Mr M to believe that Portal 
felt the transfer was appropriate.
I should also add that I dont think the investments recommended to Mr M were appropriate. 
As Ive said I feel the categorisation of Mr M as a balanced investor was questionable given 
some of the answers he gave in the risk profiling section of the fact find and his 
circumstances at the time. But even if I agree he shouldve been considered a balanced 
investor, I dont think the recommendation that 87.5% of his pension fund be placed in UCIS 
was suitable. Portal has said it recommended these investments because Mr M had 
indicated a concern with the risks associated with stock market based investments. But as 
Ive said, I feel that mayve been driven by some of the early correspondence Portal sent 
him. And even if not, Ive seen nothing to indicate he had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these UCIS investments.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think the advice given by Portal was suitable here.
Insistent client
Portal argues that it was correct to class Mr M as an insistent client. Ive already detailed a 
number of flaws with the process that Portal followed. And overall, I have serious concerns 
with the process used and whether Mr M was in fact an insistent client.
Before Portal had even provided a formal suitability report, it promoted the opportunity for 
Mr M to proceed on an insistent client basis. The letter it sent him on 28 November 2012 
included an insistent client form. Its not in dispute that Mr M signed the form. But it was pre-
completed, meaning Mr M wasnt asked or given the opportunity to explain in his own words 
why he wished to ignore professional advice and proceed with an unsuitable transfer.
This declaration was also provided to Mr M before he received Portals full suitability report, 
so he didnt have all of the information he needed to make an informed decision  all that 
was highlighted was the critical yield being unachievable, and the pension Mr M would be 
giving up (although it is unclear if that figure is even correct given later inconsistencies). Only 
after receiving Mr Ms confirmation that he wished to proceed did Portal send Mr M the 
formal suitability report. And even then, although the statement that transferring would be 
against Portals recommendation was repeated, there was no additional context provided. And this was followed by the recommendation to transfer out of the OPS to a SIPP in the 
same report. Which, as Ive said above, I think seriously undermined the recommendation 
not to transfer.
I appreciate that it was not a regulatory requirement at the time the advice was given for
Mr M to provide a letter in his own words explaining why he wished to proceed against
Portals advice. But regardless of this, Portal was required to ensure that it treated Mr M 
fairly and that it acted in his best interests. And Im not persuaded that it did treat Mr M fairly 
when it went to such lengths to assist Mr M to identify as an insistent client. 
I dont think the process was geared towards Mr M making an informed, considered 
assessment of the reasons why he shouldnt be transferring  as if it was I feel that would 
have involved Portal providing the full recommendation to Mr M, allowing him to consider this 
on his own and then revert to Portal if he still wished to proceed. 
On the contrary, I would go as far as to say that Portals process was designed to facilitate 
the transfer, with significant emphasis placed on the release of funds and how this could be 
achieved from the outset. I dont think that providing Mr M with a means of proceeding 
against the advice, without establishing why he wanted to go against it, why the apparent 
requirements were truly necessary and why alternatives werent appropriate demonstrates 
that Portal had his best interests in mind.
Overall, I think this shows that Portal made it altogether far too easy for Mr M to agree that
he was an insistent client rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go
ahead with the transfer.
Would Mr M have acted differently?
Mr M has confirmed that he did use a portion of the TFC to purchase a car and clear some 
debt  in line with the intentions noted. But again, I believe the discussions around how he 
would use this money were more what he might do if funds were available  something 
which Portal prominently emphasised as an outcome from the outset  rather than 
something he needed. And just because he used the funds in the way that he had discussed 
with Portal, I dont think confirms that this was truly a need or that he would always have 
transferred his OPS and taken TFC even if Portal had used a more appropriate process. Ill 
explain why.
Mr M has confirmed that he didnt manage to find employment shortly after the advice was 
given, as Portal had suggested was expected. So, the car wasnt required for work 
purposes. And this also meant he didnt receive an increased income to meet the associated 
costs such as insurance or fuel. So, while purchasing a new car was a benefit of the TFC 
being released I still dont think it was a true need, based on his circumstances at the time
And while Mr M did reduce his debts, his position didnt drastically improve, and hes said he 
later had to enter into an IVA. Ive thought about whether ultimately entering into an IVA 
suggested a significant need, at the time of the advice, to clear debts. Which may in turn 
have led Mr M to go ahead even if advised more clearly. But the IVA came several years 
after the advice  after Mr Ms employment position hadnt improved. So, seems to have 
been because of his circumstances not changing as hed hoped in the intervening period. 
And as Ive said the fact find indicated a payment agreement with creditors being in place at 
the time of the advice. So again, while Mr M mayve been pleased to partially reduce his 
debts using some of the TFC, I dont think it was a genuine need.
Mr M has also said that he ended up having to live off a portion of the TFC as taking it 
impacted his benefits (which as Ive noted Id have expected to have been thought about by Portal in greater detail as part of the advice process). So, he wasnt able to establish the 
emergency fund that Portal had emphasised, and he was in fact negatively impacted. 
Taking this into account, I think, as an inexperienced investor, had Mr M been provided with 
more appropriate and robust advice around why the transfer was not suitable, I dont think 
hed have gone ahead. I know Portal maintains that it said the transfer was against its 
recommendation  which overall was in my view correct. But the process Portal used, 
including the suitability report ultimately issued after Mr M had been directed to the insistent 
client route, lacked sufficient clarity, reasoning and rigour  for all the reasons set out above. 
And, in my view, meant Mr M wasnt able to make an informed decision. If he had been 
provided with more appropriate information and reasoning, so that he fully understood the 
risks and long-term implications involved in transferring his OPS and investing as he did, and 
hadnt been directed towards the insistent client route, I think he would have acted 
differently and retained his deferred benefits. As a result, I think Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld.
Ive seen evidence that, following the transfer, Mr M drew some income from his SIPP in 
2014 and 2015. Which he has said was to cover some living expenses. So, Ive thought 
about whether this suggests hed have always needed to access his pension funds before 
age 65. But I think Mr M only utilised funds from the SIPP because this option had become 
available to him as a result of the transfer. I havent seen anything to suggest that, if he had 
been provided with a more appropriate service, and the transfer hadnt taken place, that hed 
have been required to access his OPS benefits in 2014 or 2015. So, on balance, if the 
transfer hadnt taken place, I think Mr M wouldve retained his OPS benefits until drawing 
them at age 65.
As I noted earlier, there have been significant issues with the performance of the funds into 
which Mr Ms pension was invested. But I think without Portals failings, Mr M wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the transfer. So, the funds wouldnt have been invested as they were. So, I 
think it is appropriate to hold Portal responsible for all of the losses Mr M has incurred. 
Our Investigator recommended that Portal also pay Mr M £250 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning  particularly more recently where his fund was revalued to a 
nominal amount. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable 
advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in the OPS. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, for the reasons set out above, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, Portal should pay Mr M £250 for the distress caused by the disruption to Mr Ms 
retirement planning.
My aim is to return Mr M to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Portal.
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the
open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should
include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to meet any costs
in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr M to provide an undertaking, payment of the
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
The wrapper only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr M can discuss with the wrapper provider directly. But 
I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the wrapper to be closed.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman