DRN-2784948
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complained that Nationwide Building Society failed to complete two debit 
card payments to Mrs Fs credit card account resulting in her incurring late payment charges 
and the reduction of her credit card limit.
What happened
Mrs F holds a credit card account with another provider. She was leaving the UK on 26 
August 2020 for a holiday and wanted to ensure that she made a payment to her credit card 
account before she left the UK. So, she arranged an online payment, using the debit card on 
her joint Nationwide account. Mrs F said that the payment appeared to have been 
authorised.
While out of the country, Mrs F received a telephone call from her credit card provider. They 
said that her payment hadnt been received. She said that shed already made a payment 
and that she would check her bank account when she returned to the UK.
Upon her return, Mrs F checked her joint Nationwide account and saw that the payment 
hadnt been completed. So, she made a further payment on 2 October 2020. Mrs F said that 
this payment also appeared to be authorised. 
Mrs F looked at the joint Nationwide account again on 5 October 2020 to check that the 
payment had been processed. But, once again, the payment hadnt gone out of the account. 
She said that at no time did she receive any notification from Nationwide to say that either of 
the payments hadnt been made. So, she contacted Nationwide to complain.
Nationwide looked into Mrs Fs complaint. They said that the payments didnt appear against 
the joint account and also that they hadnt blocked them. They said that the payments had 
been blocked by another party involved in the processing of the transaction. 
Mrs F remained unhappy. Her credit card provider had sent letters to her and charged a late 
payment fee. The credit card provider also told her that theyd reduced her credit card limit 
as a result. Mrs F believed that Nationwide were responsible. But Nationwide disagreed. 
They said that they hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr F and Mrs F decided to refer their complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the circumstances of the complaint. He didnt think that Nationwide had done 
anything wrong here. So, Mr F and Mrs F asked for their complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to recognise that Mr F & Mrs Fs complaint here is against Nationwide. So, in 
considering what happened, I can only focus upon whether Nationwide did anything wrong 
here. Im not able to look into any actions taken by any other parties that may have been 
involved in Mrs Fs card transactions.
From the information provided, it appears that the transaction was completed online using 
Mrs Fs debit card from her joint account. This is where the person making the payment does 
so through the beneficiarys own website using their debit card. There is nothing to suggest 
that any payment was instructed using Nationwides own online banking service. 
Mrs F said that when she completed the first payment in August 2020, she received an 
authorisation code to her mobile phone. She also received a message to confirm that the 
payment had been authorised. This is common with online debit card transactions and is 
what I would expect to see. I completely understand why Mrs F would believe that the 
payment had been successful. But it appears that the payment wasnt completed. 
Mrs F also confirmed that the same process was followed when she made the second 
payment in October 2020. Once again, she received an authorisation code to her mobile 
phone. She also received a message confirming that the payment had been authorised. Mrs 
F believed that this payment shouldve been successful. She doesnt appear to have 
received anything to suggest that it wasnt.
Nationwide have provided full details, from their data records, of the transactions referred 
and processed from Mr F and Mrs Fs joint account, during the period concerned. I have 
reviewed these and cant see either of the transactions referred to by Mrs F. This suggests 
that during the card payment process, neither transaction got as far as Nationwide. If they 
had, I would have expected to see a record of them. So, I cant see anything to suggest that 
Nationwide were responsible for the payments being blocked. 
Nationwide have investigated further. They found that the payments had been blocked by a 
third party involved with the card payment processing. Unfortunately, this was out of their 
control. The payments hadnt been referred to them. While I completely understand Mr F and 
Mrs Fs frustrations here, I cant find that Nationwide did anything wrong. In these 
circumstances, they wouldnt have known anything about the blocked transactions at the 
time.
I realise that Mr F and Mrs F will be disappointed, but I cant find anything to suggest that 
Nationwide made a mistake or an error here. So, I shant be asking them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman