DRN-2692752
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs R complain that Intrum UK Limited is asking them to repay a debt that they 
dont owe.
What happened
In 2009 Intrum took over ownership of a loan debt that it says Mr M and Mrs R owed to a 
business that I will call C. In 2011, Mr M and Mrs R agreed to give Intrum a legal charge 
over their house to secure repayment of the debt.
Mr M and Mrs R say that the loan had nothing to do with them. They say that Intrum told 
them to set up a payment plan to allow time to sort things out. Mr M and Mrs R say that C 
told them it had no knowledge of them.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr M and Mrs Rs complaint be upheld. She set out 
a detailed history of what had happened since Intrum bought the debt from C. 
In summary, after Intrum bought the loan account in 2009, it sent Mr M and Mrs R a notice of 
assignment. Intrum says Mr M contacted it about a payment arrangement and said it should 
speak with a debt management business that I will refer to as S. 
Intrum only received one payment so it appointed a third-party debt collector to deal with the 
account. For ease, I will only refer to Intrum throughout my decision even if sometimes a 
third-party was taking the action.
Intrum says that Mr M asked it to deal only with Mrs R. He believed that payments were 
being made through S. Intrum didnt have third party authorisation to deal with Mrs R so it 
contacted Mr M.
Intrum went on to start insolvency proceedings. Mr M and Mrs R made repayment offers 
which Intrum declined. 
In 2011, Intrum, Mr M and Mrs R entered in to a legal charge to secure the outstanding sum 
against their property. In 2020 Mr M and Mrs R complained to Intrum to say they had no 
knowledge of the debt and hadnt heard from Intrum in several years.
Mr M and Mrs R were very unhappy with the investigators recommendation. They explain 
the emotional and physical impact that this has had on them. Mr M and Mrs R are very 
concerned that they are about to lose their home.
The investigator thought there was enough evidence to conclude the debt belonged to them. 
She was satisfied that Intrum had approached C to find out more. And that if Mr M and     
Mrs R remain unhappy about the debt, they should approach C as the original lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that I have summarised Mr M and Mrs Rs complaint. I hope that they understand I 
am not being dismissive of the points theyve made, but this reflects the informal nature of 
our service. I want to assure Mr M and Mrs R that I have read everything they have sent to 
us. I hope they will understand if I dont address every comment made. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider is key to this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the difficulties that Mr M and Mrs R have experienced over an 
extended period. I can see how upset they are and how strongly they feel about the issues 
they have raised in this complaint. My role is to decide whether I think Intrum made a 
mistake or treated Mr M and Mrs R unfairly. And if it has, what it should do to put things right.
I should also say that I cant make findings about anyone other than Intrum. Where the 
evidence is inconclusive, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. That means Ill 
look at all the available evidence and decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
I appreciate that Mr M and Mrs R say they never took out the loan with C. And that they only 
set up a payment plan with Intrum to give them time to sort things out. But the evidence that 
weve been given indicates that Mr M and Mrs R entered in to a loan agreement with C in 
July 2006. The agreement contains both their names and current address and is signed and 
dated.
A statement of account dated 19 October 2009 provided to Intrum by C shows that Mr M and 
Mrs R made monthly payments against the loan from September 2006 to September 2008. 
The statement is addressed to Mr M and Mrs R at their current address. We also have a 
copy of the notice of assignment that Intrum sent to Mr M and Mrs R in early 2009. 
The weight of evidence strongly suggests that Mr M and Mrs R entered in to the loan 
agreement with C and that there was a balance outstanding. I consider it reasonable of 
Intrum to conclude that Mr M and Mrs R owed money to C when it bought the debt.
I understand that Mr M and Mrs R say theyve been told more than once by C that they dont 
owe it any money. Mr M and Mrs R also have a letter from S dated October 2010. This says 
C confirmed the loan has nothing to do with Mr M and Mrs R and that the account had been 
closed and Intrum has been informed. 
This is at odds with what C has told Intrum about the loan account. In January 2021, C 
confirmed to Intrum that it didnt tell Mr M and Mrs R or any third party that they didnt owe 
money on the loan account. And I cant see anything on Intrums system notes that suggest 
C made contact to say the loan didnt belong to Mr M and Mrs R. This makes is difficult for 
me to conclude that the debt has been written off or that C agrees it had nothing to do with 
Mr M and Mrs R. 
Mr M and Mrs R have made allegations about Intrum including threatening behaviour and 
that C pulled all accounts from it. Although I appreciate that it was upsetting for Mr M and 
Mrs R to be subject of insolvency proceedings, I cant say that Intrum threatened them. And 
Intrum denies that C pulled accounts from it. Even if this had happened though, my role is to 
consider this individual complaint, so I cant say that would make a difference to my decision. 
Mrs R has asked why Intrum let things go on for so long if it had the proof that they owed the 
money. From reading Intrums contact notes over the years, it seems that there were periods 
when Mr M and Mrs R were trying to enter in to an individual voluntary arrangement. After 
this wasnt approved, Intrum continued with insolvency proceedings which ultimately led to 
Mr M and Mrs R agreeing to the legal charge. Following this, Intrum has sent out annual statements. I cant say that Intrum has done anything wrong in its dealings with Mr M and 
Mrs R. 
Mr M and Mrs R have given us details of the struggles they faced with various parties 
including the court, S, a firm of solicitors and an insolvency practitioner. But as Ive said 
above, I can only consider Intrums actions  not those of anyone else. Therefore, I dont 
comment further on them. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied theres enough evidence to show that Mr M and 
Mrs R are liable for the outstanding debt. I cant reasonably conclude that Intrum is wrong to 
ask them to repay the debt. And Intrum has taken reasonable steps to address Mr M and 
Mrs Rs concerns with C. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. Im sorry that this is 
likely to disappoint Mr M and Mrs R.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman