DRN-4291464
The complaint
Mr F complains that the fixed interest rate deal he chose with National Westminster Bank Plc 
was never applied to his mortgage. He said NatWest told him something had gone wrong, 
and encouraged him to complain, but then refused to sort things out for him.
What happened
Mr F told us that on 4 August 2022 he applied for a new 2 year fixed interest rate on his 
mortgage with NatWest. He said he got an email telling him the rate was secured and more 
documentation would follow by email. He said he expected this to be delayed, because of 
COVID and staffing issues.
Mr F said that the next thing he got from NatWest was a letter dated 7 October, saying he
hadnt signed the mortgage offer documents hed been sent, so hed lost the offer. Mr F said
he tried to log in to the portal then, but found he had to setup a new online account. When he 
did this, there was no sign of his mortgage application online.
Mr F told us he decided to contact NatWest, and literally as he was typing a complaint into
the web form he got a phone call from a NatWest advisor. Mr F told us the adviser had
explained that an error had been made during a major system upgrade, that he had a strong
case and should log a complaint.
Mr F said when he finally received a response to his complaint, he was told there had been
an IT systems error, but the offer had been re-issued and two email notifications were sent 
to him. Mr F said hed re-checked but these emails had simply never been received. He said 
hed asked for copies of these documents, but never received those either.
Mr F wanted the deal he was offered, at 3.54%, reinstated, and excess interest he had paid
refunded. He was paying over 6%, which he said had impacted on his enjoyment of the
Christmas period. And he said it was very stressful to have to try to take on a large powerful
organisation. He wanted compensation, and to know this wouldnt happen to anyone else.
NatWest didnt think it had done anything wrong. It accepted Mr Fs initial application, on 4
August, had been incorrectly cancelled, but said this was rekeyed the same day. NatWest
said it issued paperwork by email for Mr F to sign on 5 August, then again on 14 September.
But he didnt reply to either of these emails, so his application expired in October.
NatWest said that the issues Mr F mentioned about his online banking didnt affect the 
mortgage application he had made. And it said Mr F would have to apply online again.
Mr F said NatWest had told us it had issued documents electronically, but he said document
metadata didnt prove when a document was issued. This data can be edited. He also said
that this had all been dragged out by NatWest initially calling him to say he had a strong
case for a complaint and even offering to help log the complaint. But he said NatWest then
took months to review the situation before saying it wouldnt do anything. And Mr F said that
during this time, interest rates were rising month on month at an unprecedented rate.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said NatWest accepted it
had initially made an error in cancelling Mr Fs application. She didnt think the problems 
Mr F later had with his online banking were related to this. And she did think the error in
cancelling Mr Fs application was quickly put right. She thought that acceptance documents
for the mortgage were then sent to Mr F. He didnt reply, so the offer expired.
Our investigator noted Mr F said these documents werent received, and could have been
altered or fabricated. But our investigator said NatWest is required to provide this service
with true and accurate information. She wasnt persuaded NatWest did anything wrong.
Mr F replied to disagree. He maintained that no documents were received, and remained
very firmly of the view that nothing was sent. He sent us the emails he said he did receive.
Mr F repeated that while he was logging a complaint to NatWest on its website he was
intercepted in real time by a call from NatWest offering to take the complaint over the phone. 
Mr F said the agent told him he had a strong case because of the IT issues NatWest had at
the time. Mr F hadnt got a transcript of this call, and he assumed we hadnt listened to it.
Mr F repeated that hed never been sent the documents he asked for, to show this offer had
been issued. His attempts to escalate the complaint within NatWest had been ignored.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She still thought the documents had been sent. And
even if they hadnt been sent, Mr F had now shown us he received an email telling him he
would get documents within three working days, that he would need to read and sign before
the new interest rate could be applied. Then he got a follow-up email, explaining the
documents might take up to ten working days to reach him, and would need to be signed to
confirm the new rate. So she said, at the very least, if Mr F didnt get the documents he was
expecting, he did know his rate switch would not complete until an offer was signed. So she
said he could have contacted NatWest before October, to ask where these documents were.
Mr F said hed sent us proof that the offer couldnt have been sent on 5 August. He thought
we should require NatWest to prove it had sent documents. And Mr F told us more about the
effect this was having on him, and why he felt it was important this should be resolved.
A third party also wrote in support of Mr F. As well as reiterating the points Mr F had made,
he also said the documentation should have been issued to Mr F by post too. And he said
Mr F now had fewer borrowing options from NatWest, because of the delay caused. The
third party said NatWest hadnt tried to help Mr F, and he may now have to sell his home.
This case then came to me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision 
on this case.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
I think it may help if I set out my conclusions here, then explain why Ive reached them.
On balance, I dont think its most likely that NatWest failed to issue documents Mr F 
needed to sign, to take up his mortgage offer. And I note that if these documents werent 
received, I would still have expected Mr F to contact NatWest to pursue this before 10 
October 2022. So even if Mr F didnt get this documentation, I would not say it was fair 
and reasonable here to require NatWest to offer Mr F the rates that NatWest had 
available on 4 August 2022.
But I do think something went wrong here, after this. I have listened to the calls Mr F 
had with NatWest, when he realised the offer hadnt been put on his mortgage. And, 
whilst I dont think these are quite as Mr F recalls, I do think NatWest failed to pass on a 
key message to Mr F  that he needed to reapply for a new mortgage interest rate  and 
instead encouraged him to think this complaint would be upheld. I think NatWest made a 
mistake when it did that, and because it did this, I think it should offer Mr F now the rates 
he could have obtained on the date of this call, 13 October 2022, for his mortgage.
Ill now explain how Ive reached those views.
I know Mr F doesnt believe NatWest ever issued the offer documentation for his 
mortgage. Unfortunately, I dont think any of the things Mr F has sent us do prove this, 
although Im aware it would be very difficult for him to prove NatWest didnt email him. 
Mr F has shown us an email from NatWest saying his documentation could be delayed, 
and might take up to ten working days. But its not unusual for a bank to warn customers 
of possible delays, even when that customer isnt going to be affected by this delay. So I 
cant assume this email means his documents werent sent on 5 August, as NatWest 
has said.
I havent been able to see that NatWest accepted the problems Mr F later had with his 
online banking were related to this issue. I dont think NatWest has ever accepted there 
was a problem wider than the accidental deletion of Mr Fs remortgage application, 
which it says it put right the day after his application. And NatWest has shown our 
service Mr Fs mortgage offer documentation, which it says was sent to him.
I think its important to note that all the evidence Ive seen from NatWest, including 
internal notes of investigations, is consistent with what NatWest says now, that the 
documentation was sent. The only thing that isnt consistent with this, in my view, is 
what was later said on the phone to Mr F. Ill return to that issue. But, for the moment, 
considering the evidence we have, and notwithstanding Mr Fs clear conviction that 
these emails werent received, I think its more likely than not that they were sent.
For completeness, I note that Mr F requested documents be sent by email. I dont think 
NatWest also had to send these documents by post. 
I also considered what would be fair in the circumstances of this case, if the 
documentation hadnt been sent and safely received by Mr F. I can see Mr F told our 
service when he complained that hed assumed his offer would be delayed, because of 
COVID and staffing issues. But he later sent our service two emails he did receive, 
which state that he should receive his offer documentation shortly.Mr F didnt get documentation within the timescales set out in these emails. And the 
emails told him that he needed to sign that documentation before his new mortgage rate 
would take effect. Mr F took no action on this until over two months later. So I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, to require NatWest to 
offer him now the rate he chose on 4 August 2022.
But I do think NatWest responded unhelpfully to Mr Fs complaint. I listened to two calls
where Mr F discussed this issue with NatWest.
Mr F rang NatWest on 10 October. He said then that hed redone his mortgage at the
beginning of August, had confirmation through and thought everything was fine, but then
hed got a letter that morning, which said he was on a variable rate. 
NatWests agent said he could see Mr F did his application on 4 August, something then 
happened on the online process, and Mr Fs application had been declined on 5 August. 
But then the system said that documents were being generated for a digital signup 
process. So the agent said if Mr F was saying no documents were ever received, 
NatWest would need to investigate.
The internal notes which were provided to this agent, after NatWest investigated, say 
this 
As per notes there was an error with the online application so it was lapsed and
rekeyed manually. It was then issued via adobe for electronic signing. It was issued 
on the 5th August and then again on the 14th September neither of which were 
signed. All the notes confirm this so customer should have been advised on the call 
that he would have to reapply online.
The agent then called Mr F back, to tell him about this outcome. I know Mr F said hed 
got this call while completing an online complaint form, but I think that was just a 
coincidence.
On this call, I can hear NatWests agent told Mr F the results of the investigation, but the
agent said he wasnt happy with this outcome. So I think its fair to say Mr F was, as he 
said, encouraged to put in a complaint. I dont think Mr F was advised by the agent to 
reapply. The agent seems to have entirely accepted Mr F didnt get emails which 
NatWests investigation said were sent. The call ended with the agent apologising to Mr 
F, and telling him that it appeared NatWests computer hadnt been able to contact him, 
and then NatWest had just sent a letter to say no. The agent said there had been an 
error on Mr Fs application.
I think this is where things went wrong. Having listened to this call, I can understand why 
Mr F expected his complaint to be upheld. I think NatWests agent should have told Mr F 
on this second call that, whilst there had been an error with the application, NatWest 
was confident that the relevant documentation had been issued, twice, and Mr F hadnt 
signed it. I dont think Mr F should have been encouraged to think things would change, 
at this stage. He should, as the internal notes suggested, have been told hed need to 
secure a new rate now.
I think its likely that Mr F would still have pursued this complaint, if hed been properly
advised on this call on 13 October 2022. But I think its also likely hed have gone online 
to secure a rate then, in case of further rises. And I think he didnt do that, because of 
the content of this second call.For those reasons, I think NatWest should now offer Mr F the fixed interest rate 
mortgage products that would have been available to him at the date of this call, 13 
October 2022. It should offer Mr F both two year and five year fixed rates, as I can hear 
on this call that Mr C said he had chosen a two year rate in August, but would probably 
now choose a five year fix, if he had the option to do so. Mr F can decide whether to 
accept an offer at these rates.
If Mr F does accept this offer, then NatWest must rework his mortgage, so that it was 
applied on or before 20 October 2022. And it must repay to Mr F any overpayments hes 
made, based on the new rate. NatWest should pay 8% simple interest on any such 
overpayments, from the date Mr F made each payment to the date this refund is made 
to Mr F.
Regardless of whether Mr F does choose a new mortgage based on rates from 13 
October 2022, I think NatWest has caused some upset in this case, and has 
unnecessarily prolonged matters for Mr F, with its handling of the call on 13 October. So 
I think it should also pay Mr F £150 in compensation.
I should stress that this decision is provisional, and may change, particularly in response 
to any further information or argument received from either side. But on what Ive seen 
to date, this is what I currently think would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest said it was minded to agree with my suggested resolution. It said it could see that 
its system recorded emails were sent to Mr F (and it showed our service a screenshot of this 
record). But it wouldnt be able to show that Mr F had received these. 
NatWest sent our service the rates it had available on the date I suggested. It said it had: 
a two year fixed rate at 5.64%, with a £995 product fee, 
a two-year fixed rate at 5.89%, with no fee,
a five year fixed rate at 5.24%, with a £995 product fee, 
a two-year fixed rate at 5.49%, with no fee.
NatWest said Mr F had recently taken out a two-year fixed rate at 6.24%. He had also 
agreed a six month switch to interest only, in line with its arrangements for cost of living 
support. 
I note NatWests reply, which helpfully sets out the rates Mr F could ask it to apply if he 
accepts my decision, and any fee it may charge for doing so. I think it would suffice to note 
here that I wouldnt expect any change to Mr Fs mortgage rate as a result of this deal to 
affect the cost of living support that NatWest has separately agreed with Mr F.
Mr F replied to disagree. As Mr F made a number of points in his reply, Ill deal with each of 
those in turn.
Mr F said his main concern was that my provisional decision rested on him being unable to 
prove he didnt receive the two emails confirming NatWests offer. Mr F said that unfairly put him in a position where it was impossible for him to prove his case, and therefore achieve a 
fair outcome.
Mr F said he and his advisors were firmly of the opinion that this provisional decision should 
only have been reached if NatWest had produced (and shared with him) not only copies of 
the emails it claims to have sent, but also the server logs which prove this to be the case, 
and the email headers (meta data) which show those emails were correctly programmed to 
get through commonly used, first line of defence, spam filters. Mr F said his professional 
background meant he thought this was a reasonable and feasible request.
I noted the difficulty for Mr F in showing he didnt receive emails, in my provisional decision 
above. But I went on to explain that I hadnt reached this decision solely because I thought it 
was most likely that the mortgage offer documents were sent. 
I explained that even if the documentation hadnt been sent and safely received by Mr F, I 
still wouldnt have thought it was fair and reasonable to require NatWest to provide Mr F the 
resolution hes seeking. Thats because Mr F did receive two emails saying hed get his offer 
documentation shortly. And he didnt then get offer documentation in the timescales set out. 
But he didnt query this with NatWest until some time later. So I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, to require NatWest to offer him now the 
rate he chose on 4 August 2022.
Mr F said one of the reasons why he felt that additional proof from NatWest was so 
important was because the deal I had suggested was based on 13 October 2022, when fixed 
rates were even worse than most deals available today. So he thought what Id offered was 
no help.
NatWest has told us that Mr F has since taken up an offer which is at a higher interest rate 
than my award in this case would require it to offer Mr F. So I hope Mr F will consider further 
whether this award would assist.
Mr F said NatWest had since changed its procedure, and no longer requires any response to 
mortgage offer confirmation emails. 
I understand that NatWests application process has now changed. But I dont think that 
means the old process is automatically unfair or unreasonable, so that NatWest should now 
be obliged to offer Mr F the deals it had available around a year ago. 
Mr F said that I hadnt allowed for the cost to him of the time hed spent compiling evidence 
and emails to fight his case. He told us about his work, and said the future impact on his 
business may be sizeable. He also said that this case had affected his ability to organise his 
finances, and affected his trust in NatWest. He also said there were now fewer options 
available to him. And he told us this had all been stressful, causing him sleepless nights.
Ive sought to consider, in my provisional decision, the impact on Mr F of this complaint. I 
appreciate all that he says about the impact on him personally, and also that he thinks the 
time this has taken will be likely to have a significant impact on his business in future. But I 
also have to take account of how far its reasonable to ask NatWest to pay compensation. 
And here, Ive explained firstly that I havent been able to see that its most likely NatWest 
did actually make a mistake. And also, more importantly, I thought the problems which arose 
here could have been avoided if Mr F had checked with NatWest earlier, to find out why he 
hadnt seen the emails it had told him it would send. With that in mind, I do still think the 
compensation payment I suggested in this case provides a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. Mr F said his email to the NatWest CEOs office was never even acknowledged. He thought 
that should have been investigated and appropriate action taken. 
Mr F emailed NatWests CEO after hed received NatWests final response letter, which 
replied to his compalint. This letter set out for Mr F that he could bring his complaint to our 
service, and signposted him to guidance on how to do this. Banks wont always continue to 
correspond with complainants after a letter like this has been sent. And it can sometimes be 
unhelpful if correspondence directly between the bank and the complainant overlaps with a 
complaint being considered by our service. With that in mind, I dont think that NatWest had 
to continue to reply to correspondence from Mr F about his complaint, after it had issued a 
final response letter in response to his complaint. And I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for NatWest not to do so.
Mr F said it was deeply concerning that evidenced and multiple IT, process and covenant 
breaches by NatWest had not been formally acknowledged, and therefore addressed.
Its not clear to me what IT, process and covenant breaches Mr F is referring to here. I do 
think Ive commented on the issues raised as part of Mr Fs individual complaint, although I 
know he hasnt agreed with my conclusions here. I havent been able to see that other 
concerns about IT issues with this business are relevant to Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F closed by saying that he hoped I would change my mind. Im sorry to have to tell him 
that, for the reasons set out above, I still think that the award I proposed in my provisional 
decision remains a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must offer Mr F the two and five year 
fixed interest mortgage products that would have been available to him on 13 October 2022.
If Mr F accepts this offer, then National Westminster Bank Plc must rework his mortgage, so
that the new rate was applied on or before 20 October 2022. And it must repay to Mr F any
overpayments hes made, based on the new rate.
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay 8% simple interest on any such overpayments,
from the date Mr F made each payment to the date this refund is made to Mr F.
HM Revenue and Customs requires National Westminster Bank Plc to take off tax from this
interest. National Westminster Bank Plc must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax
its taken off if he asks for one.
National Westminster Bank Plc must also pay Mr F £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman