DRN-2411737
The complaint
Mrs H complains about three instalment loans that she took out with Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Lending Stream, (LS), which she said were unaffordable. The complaint has 
been brought to this service on Mrs Hs behalf by a claims management company, but for 
ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mrs H.
What happened
This complaint is about three short term loans LS provided to Mrs H between February 2019 
and June 2019. The loans havent been repaid. Mrs Hs lending history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan 
amount 
1. 14/2/19 Unpaid £340
2. 9/4/19 Unpaid £230
3. 4/6/19 Unpaid £100
Mrs H said that LS had failed to carry out effective affordability assessments prior to her 
loans. 
In its final response letter, LS said it asked Mrs H for her monthly income and confirmed it 
with an independent company to make sure it was right. LS also asked what Mrs H's costs 
were for items like rent, utilities, food, transport, and dependent care. It checked what Mrs H 
told it with information from independent sources. If required, it adjusted these expenses 
upward and used these new figures in its calculations. LS also asked Mrs H what her 
monthly expenses were for other loans and credit agreements and it checked this 
information with an independent credit reference agency. It adjusted these expenses upward 
where required and used the new figures in its calculations. Finally, it added up all the 
expenses and subtracted it from the monthly income to see if Mrs H had enough money left 
to be able to pay it for the loan comfortably.
LS said that for Loans 2 and 3, the money that Mrs H had available after her expenses were 
subtracted was more than the amount needed to pay it each month and would still have left 
Mrs H with some money to spend on other things. This meant that these loans were 
affordable. But for Loan 1, the money that Mrs H had available after her expenses were 
subtracted was less than the amount needed to pay it comfortably each month. This meant 
that this loan was possibly not affordable. So, it partially agreed to uphold Mrs H's complaint 
and said that it would refund the interest and fees Mrs H paid on Loan 1, pay 8% simple 
interest on the refunds and remove adverse information about the loan from Mrs Hs credit 
file. But as Mrs H had an outstanding balance due to it, when it subtracted the compensation 
for Loan 1 from that, there was still an amount which she would need to pay it.
Mrs H rejected this offer.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator thought that LS hadnt acted unfairly and that LSs offer was fair. He said he 
wouldnt be asking LS to do anything differently.
Mrs H disagreed.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs H 
and to LS on 2 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
As LS had offered to settle Loan 1, I said that I wouldnt investigate this loan. But I said that I 
would include the redress for this loan in my proposed compensation award.
I noted that when LS lent to Mrs H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet her 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet her 
repayments out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks LS needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mrs H would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed 
checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
As Id set out above, LS had made a number of checks before it lent Loans 2 and 3 to Mrs H. 
It had asked her for details of her monthly income and expenditure. Mrs Hs declared income 
as adjusted by LS was £1,136.36. Mrs Hs declared expenditure was between £750 and 
£950. 
LS said that it had also checked Mrs Hs credit file before agreeing to the loans. But Id not 
seen any information about LSs credit checks.
I could see that wed received Mrs Hs credit report and referred to this in my decision.Loans 2 and 3 were repayable by six monthly instalments. So, the amounts that Mrs H 
needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal payday loan. But she 
was also committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. In addition, Mrs H 
sometimes had a number of loans outstanding at the same time. So, Id considered the total 
amount that Mrs H needed to repay to LS each month. 
I could see that Mrs H took out Loan 2 whilst Loan 1 was outstanding. Id noted that Mrs H 
had asked to borrow £500 but she was provided with a loan of £230. So, Id thought it was 
possible that LS might have had concerns about Mrs Hs financial situation at that point. The 
highest total monthly repayment amount for Loans 1 and 2 was almost £200. This was a 
significant proportion of Mrs Hs disposable income. So, although I still thought it was 
reasonable for LS to base its affordability assessment on information that Mrs H had 
provided, I thought it also should have gathered information about any other short term loans 
that she was already committed to repaying. 
Id looked carefully at the information Mrs H had provided us with to see what better checks 
would have shown LS at that time. Wed received Mrs Hs credit report. I could see on the 
credit report that Mrs H had one other high cost credit loan which might have been a short 
term loan and which would have been repayable at the same time as Loan 1. But overall, I 
couldnt safely say that if LS had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 2, it wouldve 
seen that Mrs H couldnt sustainably make the repayments to Loan 2. So, I didnt intend to 
uphold her complaint about Loan 2.
I could see that Mrs H had taken out Loan 3 whilst Loans 1 and 2 were outstanding. Id 
noted that Mrs H had asked to borrow £1,000 but she was provided with a loan of £100. So, 
again I thought it was possible that LS might have had concerns about Mrs Hs financial 
situation at that point. The highest total monthly repayment amount for Loans 1 to 3 was 
almost £225. This was a significant proportion of Mrs Hs disposable income and again I 
thought LS should have gathered information about any other short term loans that she was 
already committed to repaying. 
Id again looked at Mrs Hs credit report to see what better checks would have shown LS. I 
could see on the credit report that Mrs H had at least two other short term loans as well as 
the two short term loans already outstanding to LS. So, I thought that LS would have 
become aware that Mrs H was having difficulties managing her money if it had carried out 
better checks. And when Mrs H applied for Loan 3 in June 2019, I thought these difficulties 
would have suggested that there was a real risk that Mrs H wasnt going to be able to 
sustainably repay Loan 3 and the potential difficulties or adverse consequences for her. So 
as a responsible lender, I didnt think LS should have given Loan 3 to Mrs H. 
Subject to any further representations by Mrs H or LS my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to say that LS shouldnt have given  
Mrs H Loan 3, and that it needed to pay Mrs H some compensation relating to this loan 
together with what it had already offered to pay to settle Loan 1. So, I said that LS needed to 
put things right as shown below. 
putting things right  what LS needs to do
If LS has sold the outstanding debts on Loans 1 and 3, it should buy these back if it is able 
to do so and then take the following steps. If LS isnt able to buy the debts back, then it 
should liaise with the debt purchaser to achieve the results outlined below.
1. Loans 1 and 3 have not been fully repaid. In order to put Mrs H back into the position 
she would have been had these not been agreed for her, LS needs to ensure that 
Mrs H only repays the principal borrowed on those loans. In other words, she should not pay any interest or charges for those loans. So, LS should remove all interest, 
fees and charges applied to those loans, and treat any payments made by Mrs H 
towards those loans as payments towards the original capital borrowed. If there are 
still outstanding capital balances on Loans 1 and 3 then LS should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs H.
2. If reworking Mrs Hs accounts on Loans 1 and 3 as Id directed results in Mrs H 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed on those 
accounts, then LS should add 8% simple interest to these overpayments calculated 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
3. If reworking Loans 1 and 3 as above results in an overpayment then this amount and 
any interest calculated as above can be used to repay any balance remaining on 
Loan 2. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mrs H. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance on Loan 2, then LS should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs H.
4. LS should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file in relation 
to Loans 1 and 3. 
*HMRC requires LS to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs H asks LS for a certificate 
showing how much tax LS has taken off, it should provide this. If LS intends to use the 
refunds to reduce an amount Mrs H owes, it must do this after tax.
Neither Mrs H nor LS have provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mrs H and LS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part 
of the complaint and require LS to pay Mrs H some compensation and to take the steps as 
set out below.
In deciding what redress LS should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might have 
happened had it stopped lending to Mrs H from Loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs H in a compliant way at the time of Loan 3.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs H would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LSs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to pay Mrs H compensation 
and to take the steps set out below. If LS has sold the outstanding debts on Loans 1 and 
3, it should buy these back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If LS isnt 
able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise with the debt purchaser to achieve the 
results outlined below.
1. Loans 1 and 3 have not been fully repaid. In order to put Mrs H back into the 
position she would have been had these not been agreed for her, LS needs to 
ensure that Mrs H only repays the principal borrowed on those loans. In other 
words, she should not pay any interest or charges for those loans. So, LS should 
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to those loans, and treat any 
payments made by Mrs H towards those loans as payments towards the original 
capital borrowed. If there are still outstanding capital balances on Loans 1 and 3 
then LS should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs H.
2. If reworking Mrs Hs accounts on Loans 1 and 3 as Id directed results in Mrs H 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed on those 
accounts, then LS should add 8% simple interest to these overpayments 
calculated from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement. 
3. If reworking Loans 1 and 3 as above results in an overpayment then this amount 
and any interest calculated as above can be used to repay any balance 
remaining on Loan 2. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid 
to Mrs H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance on Loan 2, then LS 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs H.
4. LS should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file in 
relation to Loans 1 and 3. 
*HMRC requires LS to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs H asks LS for a certificate 
showing how much tax LS has taken off, it should provide this. If LS intends to use the 
refunds to reduce an amount Mrs H owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman