DRN-2109735
The complaint
Mr A complains that 3J Finance Limited is responsible for a mis-sold loan for an online 
educational course.
 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr A says he was sold a cancel at any time service for online educational 
course for children by an online course provider. 3J Finance say he took out a Fixed Sum 
Loan Agreement over five years with it to pay for the online teaching course.
In 2019 Mr A says he discovered he had a loan when he tried to cancel his payments 
thinking it was a type of subscription service. He was told that neither the course provider or 
3J Finance had done anything wrong. So he complained. Both the course provider and 3J 
Finance say theyd done nothing wrong. So he complained here.
Our Investigator upheld Mr As complaint, but 3J Finance didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says he discovered this online educational course whilst searching for a course to 
support his childrens learning online. So he arranged with the course provider for a 
representative to visit him at his home in October 2018. 
By the end of this meeting Mr A had purchased a course teaching Maths and English for his 
children. It appears the representative was acting for both the course provider and 3J 
Finance during the sales process. The total cash price of the course was £3564 of which 
£3445.20 was paid for with a loan from 3J Finance which was arranged by the 
representative at the time. The loan was interest free and was to run for 60 instalments. 
Mr A has been clear and consistent in his representations that during the meeting with the 
representative he understood the situation was that they had a service which was paid 
monthly and that they could cancel at any time. I say this because this is what he has said 
to this service consistently and I can see that when he complained to the course provider 
originally that is the first element of his complaint that it addressed back in 2019.
Initially there was a period of some months where Mr As children used the online course 
and Mr A paid the monthly amounts. But in early 2019 Mr As children no longer felt the need 
for the course and stopped using it. And after that Mr A went to cancel the course and the 
monthly payments. He says this is the first time he realised that he had a credit facility with 
3J Finance, up until then he says he believed he was paying monthly towards a subscription 
type service for the course which he could cancel at any time. 
So Mr A complained and in essence the position was explained to him that he had signed 
and initialled the paperwork, had the benefit of the finance agreement, was aware of the 
cancellation period and had discussed the matter thoroughly with the representative at the 
time.
3J Finance didnt sell Mr A the course or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to Mr A 
due to certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan 
Mr A entered with 3J Finance is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act 
which provide his with some protection, namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the related company the agent of 3J Finance 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr A entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communication he received from the course provider. In essence this 
means 3J Finance can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during the 
sales process before Mr A signed up. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr A to hold 3J 
Finance liable for breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made 
by it in relation to the purchase of the course.
3J Finance has pointed to a number of documents (of which it has provided copies) which 
were either electronically signed or initialled and signed by hand by Mr A that day. He 
accepts that he did initial and sign the Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form and 
that he completed forms electronically. But Mr A says he was nave and trusted what the 
representative said.
3J Finances position is essentially that the documentary evidence from the point of sale is 
strong and is, in short, the end of the matter as Mr A agreed to everything in those 
documents. But I dont agree that position is a complete appreciation of what happened 
here. What was said by the representative is also important as the discussion will have 
started before the paperwork was signed. And Mr A would have considered what the 
representative said in his decision making during the sale and throughout.
Mr A has been consistent in saying he believed he could cancel this course at any time and 
that he didnt discover this wasnt the case until when he did try to cancel the monthly 
payment. He says he believed this because this was what the representative told him.
I think a particularly important issue here is the reliance Mr A placed on what the 
representative told him before and during completion of the paperwork. As this was before 
and during when hed have considered the paperwork based on what Mr A has said and 
what we know of the sales process here. 
As for the broader context of this sale Im also aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. 
The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance 
providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially 
increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in 
particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a 
commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the 
sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of 
mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
course provider and 3J Finance. These include the common themes of people 
understanding that they could cancel at any time and that they were paying on a subscription 
or pay as you go type arrangement. I havent seen anything that connects these complainants other than they were sold courses such as this run by the course provider and 
financed by companies such as 3J Finance. That doesnt mean that the representatives 
always provided misleading or untrue information. But it does show that there was a 
significant risk that such representatives either were unclear on the arrangement being 
entered into or that unscrupulous or incompetent representatives may have presented the 
situation differently to that articulated in the documentation.
This service has also received information that the course provider operated informally a 
longer cancellation period than the fourteen days set out in its contracts. I can see the 
existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being a potential 
source of confusion during the sales process, and this again leads me towards a conclusion 
that misunderstandings were not uncommon.
Ive considered what Mr A has said very carefully. And taking everything into account Im 
persuaded on balance that Mr A was told a different story by the representative regarding 
the operation of the agreement to that set out in the documentation provided by 3J Finance. I 
think it likely he was told that he could cancel at any time and that he was paying a 
subscription type service. And it was on this basis he entered into the agreement. And 
similarly I think it is on this basis things should be put right. And as Ive described due to the 
operation of sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr A can hold 3J Finance 
liable for the incorrect information provided by the representative in this case. So 3J Finance 
needs to do something to put things right.
In response to the views of the Investigator 3J Finance has said that reliance on one partys 
recollections when compared to its tangible and credible documentary evidence would 
appear to be unfair. I disagree. Firstly that the paperwork was signed by Mr A isnt disputed. 
But importantly the key issue here is what was said to Mr A before and whilst he signed that 
documentation and what he relied on in deciding to sign. Secondly and more importantly 3J 
Finance has only described what it considers what would have been said by its 
representative not what was actually said. Mr A was there in person and heard what was 
actually said and I find his comments persuasive. 3J Finance hasnt provided comment from 
the representative concerned. And along with what Ive already said with regards to sales 
such as this more broadly and considering what this service knows of sales such as this 
means I consider it fair on balance that 3J Finance put things right in this particular case.
  
Putting things right
I direct 3J Finance to take the following actions:
Cap Mr As liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as of
the date he first contacted either the related company or 3J Finance to cancel. 
Anything above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Mr A has paid more than this capped liability, then any overpayments must be
refunded to him, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date he
made each overpayment, to the date he receives a refund.
If Mr A has paid less than this capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mr As credit file and mark 
it as settled from the first date he contacted either the related company or 3J 
Finance to cancel. If Mr A has not paid up to this capped liability then 3J Finance 
does not need to mark the loan as settled until he has paid up to the cap.
Arrange with Mr A for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else he 
received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under the 
contract.*HM Revenue & Customs requires 3J Finance to take tax off this interest. 3J Finance must
give Mr A an appropriate certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr A asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against 3J Finance Limited and direct 
it to put things right as I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman