DRN-4193614
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund him after he bought an item 
that wasnt as described.
What happened
Mr B says that he saw an advert for a gold bracelet on a classified advertisement site. He 
contacted the seller who told Mr B that he worked for a jeweller and was selling off old stock. 
The seller brought the bracelet to Mr Bs house in a bag from the jewellery shop the seller 
claimed to work for. Mr B inspected it and couldnt see anything wrong, so he made a faster 
payment of £1,140 to the seller in February 2023. When Mr B later took the bracelet to a 
jeweller, he was told it was fake. He is unable to get hold of the seller, who has set up 
another profile selling similar items. The police are involved, and Mr B says the seller is 
known to them. 
Mr B reported what had happened to Lloyds. Lloyds said Mr B had a buyer/seller dispute as 
Mr B received the item he bought, but it wasnt as described. 
Mr B was unhappy with Lloyds response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
that Mr B had a civil dispute with the seller that isnt covered by the CRM Code and that the 
transaction wasnt unusual, so Lloyds was right to follow Mr Bs payment instructions.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. In summary, he said he was lied to and 
deceived and that he has provided evidence that the seller was known to the police. Mr B 
also referred to text messages in which he asked the seller if the item was genuine and 
hallmarked and stated that he believed he was buying genuine gold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr B. He has lost money and doesnt seem to 
have been treated fairly by the seller. I can understand why Mr B feels so strongly that his 
losses should be refunded to him. But that doesnt mean Lloyds is responsible for the money 
Mr B lost or that it now needs to refund him. 
A bank has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers give it. 
As a starting point, a customer is therefore assumed liable for a payment they have 
instructed to be made. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam (except in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all payments. It says,
DS2(2) This Code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So, the CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers and doesnt cover situations 
where a customer has paid for goods that dont meet their expectations. This amounts to 
potential breach of contract, which is a civil issue. Instead, the CRM Code only applies in 
very specific circumstances  where the customer has been the victim of an APP scam, in 
circumstances akin to criminal fraud. So I think I need to consider not simply whether the 
seller made any misleading claims but whether Mr B was induced to make payments for a 
bracelet by means of criminal deception. It is the intent to defraud the customer from the 
outset that is relevant. While Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, Im not persuaded I can say that is 
most likely what happened here and will explain why.
Mr B received a bracelet that he had inspected before he made payment. Scammers dont 
usually allow someone the opportunity to view an item before deciding whether to buy. The 
bracelet wasnt as described but that doesnt mean that the high bar required for criminal 
fraud has been met. 
I have also seen confidential information from the bank Mr Bs funds were paid to. 
Information about third party accounts cant be shared and theres little I can comment on. 
But at the time the payments were made there were no concerns about the account or its 
operation. If the seller was involved in classified advert scams this is unlikely to be the case. 
Mr B has provided evidence that shows that the person the police thought was involved 
based on CCTV footage provided by Mr B is known to police. I havent seen any further 
evidence to suggest the police have charged anyone and I do not have the power to compel 
the seller to testify. Instead, Im restricted to considering what I think is more likely than not 
(and not just as likely) based on the evidence available to me.
Overall, whilst I can understand why Mr B feels strongly about this case, Im not satisfied that 
Lloyds has done anything wrong. Banks cant get involved in private civil disputes between 
buyers and sellers.  
I also dont think the payment Mr B made was sufficiently out of character or unusual that 
Lloyds ought to have had concerns when Mr B submitted the payment instruction. The 
payment was unremarkable when compared to the normal use of Mr Bs account. So, I dont 
consider Lloyds needed to intervene before processing it. In any event, there was nothing at 
the time of payment to indicate that anything was amiss.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear that Mr B hasnt received what he expected, I cant hold 
Lloyds responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman