DRN-3038182
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) failed to properly investigate 
the cause of a leak, resulting in further damage to his roof. 
  
What happened
Mr S had buildings insurance with RSA, which included home emergency (HE) cover as 
standard. He made a claim under the policy after noticing damage to his bedroom ceiling. Mr 
S told RSA he thought he had a leak from his roof. RSA appointed a roofer under the HE 
cover, who applied a sealant to the bedroom ceiling.
Around ten months later, Mr Ss landing ceiling collapsed. He claimed again under the HE 
part of his policy and RSAs roofer completed a temporary repair to a small hole in the roof. 
Rainwater leaked through the roof a few days later and Mr S made a further claim under his 
buildings insurance.
RSA declined his claim under the wear and tear exclusion because it said the damage had 
built up over a long time. Mr S complained that RSA shouldve made him aware of this when 
he first made a claim the previous year.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. While he agreed the damage wasnt covered 
under the buildings insurance for the reason RSA gave, he thought Mr S had a point about 
the temporary repair it carried out. Our investigator thought that if RSA had properly 
investigated the leak Mr S reported, he couldve arranged a permanent repair. So our 
investigator thought RSA should repair, or cover the reasonable costs of fixing the internal 
damage to Mr Ss property caused by the water ingress, and pay £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
RSA didnt agree. It said when the roofer attended the first time, Mr S confirmed the issue 
was only with damp in his bedroom, so there was no need for a roof inspection. RSA also 
said Mr Ss claim was for storm damage, but it was evident that the roof damage was due to 
wear and tear.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call recording of Mr Ss first claim. In that call he said he had a leak from 
his roof and he needed a roofer to come out. He said he thought it was a leak because he 
could see water damage inside his bedroom, although he couldnt see the actual leak. When 
asked whether he could see damage to the roof, Mr S said he couldnt see anything obvious 
but he thought it might be on a corner where the roof sticks out a bit. RSA accepted his claim 
and told Mr S any repair would be temporary to make the roof watertight and hed need to 
arrange a lasting repair. 
The policy booklet confirms what RSA would do in these circumstances:
4. Repairs necessary to make the roof of the home watertight and prevent further
damage.
RSA confirmed the roofer sealed the bedroom ceiling but didnt inspect the roof. RSA said 
Mr S told the roofer the problem was only with damp in his bedroom. On balance, it seems 
unlikely Mr S wouldve gone to the trouble of reporting the matter as an emergency if he 
thought it was an issue with damp. Even so, I think RSA had a responsibility to investigate 
the cause of the water damage evident on the ceiling. I dont think applying a sealant met the 
policy conditions of making the roof watertight and preventing further damage.
I think the easiest way to explain my reasons for upholding Mr Ss complaint is to describe 
what shouldve happened here. Mr S clearly thought he had a leak from his roof. While I 
agree that its not RSAs responsibility to inspect the whole roof, it shouldve looked at the 
area where Mr S thought it was letting water in. RSA confirmed its responsibility was to 
make the roof watertight but applying a sealant to the bedroom ceiling didnt do that.
If RSA had inspected the roof and identified wear and tear, I completely agree that cover 
wouldntve been available to Mr S under his policy. RSA correctly pointed out that cover is 
excluded where the main cause is wear and tear. But at least, then, Mr S wouldve known 
that and he couldve arranged a repair. What happened, though, is that RSA didnt look at 
the roof, so Mr S didnt know it needed fixing. 
I accept that routine maintenance is Mr Ss responsibility, as does he. But if he made a claim 
under his HE policy for a leaking roof, and RSA didnt even look at his roof, then I think it 
should bear some of the responsibility for the resulting damage months later after the wear 
and tear continued to get worse. This represents an avoidable loss to Mr S.
So, to be clear, Im satisfied that it was fair for RSA to decline cover for the roof under the 
wear and tear exclusion when Mr S made his later claim. But the evidence shows that RSA 
didnt complete the temporary repair it set out to do and which Mr S couldve reasonably 
expected under the terms of his policy. Ive decided that RSA should cover the cost of the 
internal damage which Mr S would likely have avoided if RSA had completed a temporary 
repair when he first claimed, and made him aware that he needed to complete a lasting 
repair which wouldnt be covered under his policy. 
Our investigator recommended that RSA compensates Mr S for the inconvenience and 
distress this matter caused. Having considered Mr Ss description of the effect this matter 
had on him, especially given his medical conditions, I agree that £100 compensation is 
warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must:
repair, or cover the reasonable costs of fixing the internal damage to Mr Ss property 
caused by the water ingress, and 
pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman