DRN-3136123
The complaint
Mrs C complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs C was given two loans by 118 118 Money as follows: 
LoanDate taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
1 31/03/2019 £1,000.00 24 months £72.80 10/07/2019
2 29/09/2019 £1,000.00 12 months £101.60 24/12/2019
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mrs Cs complaint. She didnt think that 118 118 
Money shouldve provided these loans to Mrs C and she set out the steps that the 
lender needed to take to put things right. 
118 118 Money disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mrs C. 
Loan 1
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mrs C before it agreed the loan. It asked 
her for details of her income and used industry standard verification checks to validate the 
information Mrs C had provided in her application. 118 118 Money asked Mrs C about her 
monthly expenditure and also carried out credit checks to find out about Mrs Cs credit 
history and see how much she paid towards her existing credit commitments. 
118 118 Money was satisfied that Mrs C could rely on receiving a monthly income of £1,281. 
It recorded that Mrs Cs monthly spending on rent and other outgoings, including paying 
£148 to service her existing debt, came to around £526. So 118 118 Money concluded that 
the loan repayments of £72.80 looked to be affordable for Mrs C.
118 118 Money saw from its credit checks that Mrs C had a total outstanding credit balance 
of £3,206 and 7 active accounts. It saw that this included a balance of £591 owing on credit 
cards  and that she had unused available credit as she could borrow up to £1,250 on her 
credit cards. Mrs C also had an unsecured loan with an outstanding balance of £2,615 which 
she had taken out just a couple of months earlier. 
118 118 Money could see Mrs C had some adverse information showing on her credit record 
 it was evident that a credit card account that she had taken out in October 2018 went to a 
debt collection agency when Mrs C ran into payment problems. But it looked like Mrs C had 
cleared the balance owed before applying for this loan. 
118 118 Money could also see that Mrs C had been using credit cards for cash advances  
which is a convenient but expensive way to obtain cash and potentially suggests a borrower 
might be facing some financial stress. But I dont think the overall amount of cash advances 
suggests that Mrs Cs use of her credit cards for this purpose was excessive  and there 
wasnt anything else showing on her credit file that wouldve suggested to a responsible lender that her use of credit was out of control. Given the type of lending, I think a lender 
would reasonably expect to see some adverse information on a borrowers credit history  
and it isnt automatically a reason not to lend. 
Overall, I think it was fair for 118 118 Money to have considered that Mrs Cs credit report 
generally showed a positive credit history and payment record. 
I think the checks that 118 118 Money carried out before lending to Mrs C were broadly 
reasonable and proportionate. I dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank 
statements  were required. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for 118 118 
Money to have relied on the information that Mrs C provided and what it found in its checks. 
Taking things as a whole, it was reasonable in my view for 118 118 Money to consider that 
the monthly repayments on its loan were sustainably affordable for Mrs C.
So Im not planning to uphold Mrs Cs complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2
118 118 Money carried out the same checks it had done when Mrs C had applied for her first 
loan. It was satisfied that her take home pay was still £1,281. But it gathered information that 
showed her monthly expenditure had now increased substantially bringing her total 
outgoings to around £1,062.
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that 118 118 Money carried out before it agreed to 
lend to Mrs C were proportionate in these circumstances. But, I dont think that 118 118 
Money made a fair lending decision on this occasion.
118 118 Money had gathered information that showed Mrs C was already paying around 
£582 towards her existing credit commitments. The additional loan monthly repayments on 
this loan would take her spending on credit each month up to around £683. So 118 118 
Money was aware that this meant Mrs C would be spending around half of her income on 
servicing debt.
I think our adjudicator was right to point out that this was such a significant proportion of 
Mrs Cs monthly income it was a clear indication that Mrs C was, in reality, already 
experiencing serious financial difficulty. I think 118 118 Money ought reasonably to have 
been aware that taking out this further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mrs C and more 
likely to potentially increase her indebtedness over the longer term.
I think 118 118 Money ought to have realised that it was unlikely that Mrs C would be able to 
sustainably repay her loan over the 12 months term. And I cant see anything in the credit 
checks that 118 118 Money acquired that wouldve provided any reassurance that the loan 
repayments Mrs C was signing up to make would be sustainably affordable. It already 
looked like she was excessively reliant on credit. Her total credit balance had increased to 
over £12,000 in the six months period since she had taken out loan 1. Mrs C had opened 
five new credit accounts and she now owed more than £5,000 on her credit cards. She had 
used more than 92% of the available credit they offered her  much of that on taking out 
cash advances.    
I dont think that anything Mrs C told 118 118 Money when she took out this loan was 
sufficient to explain or rebut what 118 118 Money saw from its own credit checks. 
I think 118 118 Money ought to have realised that Mrs C was most likely finding it very 
difficult to manage her finances and that she would be unable to sustainably repay the 
loan over the loan term. I think, in these circumstances, 118 118 Money should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to Mrs C. Overall, I dont think 
118 118 Money could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mrs C 
wouldnt put her in a worse position by increasing her overall debts. 
So, I am planning on upholding Mrs Cs complaint that she should not have been given 
loan 2.
I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards Mrs C in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. Our adjudicator didnt suggest awarding any 
additional redress over and above the redress owed in respect of the loans unfairly 
provided and as it seems Mrs C is happy with this recommendation, then I dont think 
I need to say more. But as Mrs C has been further indebted with a high amount of interest 
and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she 
has lost out as a result of what 118 118 Money did wrong. So, I think 118 118 Money needs 
to put things right.
I hope that setting out my reasons will help 118 118 Money understand how and why Ive 
reached my decision. I invite 118 118 Money to reconsider its position in light of what I've 
said.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs Cs representative acknowledged safe receipt of my provisional decision and told us it 
was lookng forward to being updated on this matter. 
118 118 Money confirmed that it accepted the findings Id made in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
It is fair and reasonable for Mrs C to repay the principal amount that she borrowed when she 
took out loan 2, because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for a loan that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Mrs C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
118 118 Money should do the following:
oadd up the total amount of money Mrs C received as a result of being 
given loan 2. The payments Mrs C made should be deducted from this 
amount oif this results in Mrs C having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* 
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of 
settlement) 
oremove any adverse information placed on Mrs Cs credit file regarding the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about loan 2 and require Madison CF UK Limited trading as 
118 118 Money to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman