DRN-1657345
Complaint 
Mrs B complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a store card in June 1997.
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD has taken responsibility 
for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this decision.
Background
Mrs B applied for the PPI in the store when she took out her store card there. This policy 
covered her if she lost her job, or if she was off work because she was sick or had an 
accident. The policy cost no more than £1.00 for every £100.00 of the outstanding balance 
owed on the card. On a successful claim, it would have paid 15% of that balance until the 
outstanding balance on the card was repaid, or until Mrs B returned to work.
Our adjudicator said he didn't think this was a case that should be upheld. Mrs B disagreed 
with our adjudicators view. She said she never agreed to the PPI being added onto her 
card. Although Mrs B accepted the section on the credit card was ticked, she has told us she 
wasn't given a clear choice. She asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mrs B had a choice about buying the PPI. This 
policy was taken out in store. AXA has provided a copy of the agreement Mrs B saw and 
signed at the time of the sale. On it theres a section about PPI. Mrs B has ticked the box to 
confirm she wanted her account covered by the insurance. Mrs B has also signed and dated 
the application. I note Mrs B doesn't agree that ticking the box showed the PPI was optional 
and I have no doubt Mrs B has told me what she honestly remembers about the sale. But I 
have also taken into account that this sale happened around twenty-three years ago. I think 
on balance, Mrs B would more likely have read the form confirming all her personal details 
and understood she had applied for the insurance at the time. If Mrs B hadn't wanted the 
PPI, she could have left this part of the form blank. And I can see that she hasn't opted to 
take out card protection- another optional insurance policy. I also think the PPI would have 
appeared on Mrs Bs statements, so if she didn't want the policy or didn't know she had it, 
she could have questioned it at the time - I havent seen evidence she did so. 
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that Mrs B agreed to take 
the PPI out at the time, knowing she could refuse it if she didn't want it, even if its 
understandable if she cant remember that now after such a long time. I dont think AXA recommended this policy to Mrs B. So, it didn't have to make sure it was 
suitable for her circumstances. But it still had to give her enough clear information, so she 
could decide for herself whether she wanted to take out the policy or leave it.
Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it should have been. But even if the 
information could have been clearer that doesn't mean I can automatically uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint. I have to decide whether Mrs B would have acted differently if shed been given 
all the information she should have been given. 
To help me decide, Ive thought about the terms and conditions of the policy and Mrs Bs 
personal circumstances. On balance, I still think Mrs B would have bought the cover. 
I say this as it appears Mrs B was eligible for the policy. And as she was in full time 
employment and had no pre-existing medical conditions, I dont think she would have been 
affected by any of the main limitations of the policy which might have made it more difficult to 
make a successful claim.
Mrs B has told us she would have received sick pay from her employer of at least six months 
full pay. She has also said she had no savings she could fall back on if things went wrong. I 
can see if Mrs B had to make a claim on the PPI, 15% of her balance would have been paid 
every month until the balance was repaid. I accept Mrs B had sick pay from work, but with 
this cover, she could have used this sick pay on her other essential expenditure at what 
would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she was out of work. I have also 
taken into consideration that this policy would have paid out in addition to and for longer than 
her sick pay would have lasted. Overall, I still think the policy was useful to her. 
So, for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been useful if Mrs B lost 
her job or couldn't work. And it looks as though she chose to buy the insurance  so it looks 
like she wanted that type of cover at the time. I also havent seen anything to suggest the 
premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mrs B would have acted 
differently even if AXA had given her more or better information about the policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I 
havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. I dont 
require AXA France IARD to take any further action in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman