DRN-2473531
The complaint
Mr B and his daughter-in-law Ms B complain TSB Bank plc provided incorrect information 
when they tried to open a bank account. As a result, their time was wasted. 
What happened
Mr B and Ms B tried to open a joint business bank account. TSB required them to gather 
some information but when Mr B provided it to the bank, TSB said the application should 
never have been progressed as the criteria wasnt met. TSB paid compensation of £50 plus 
£18 for parking charges as Mr B had to make some visits to a branch.
Mr B estimated he spent at least 15 hours trying to get the application approved. Ms B had 
also suffered as she hadnt been able to set up the bank account she wanted and had also 
spent time gathering information that was requested.
TSB accepted it provided some inconsistent and incorrect information. However, TSB felt 
enough compensation had been paid for this misunderstanding.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She thought TSB had the 
right to set its criteria for who it does business with. She agreed that Mr B and Ms B spent 
time trying to get this application approved and were given conflicting information but, in her 
view, TSB had compensated them adequately for the inconvenienced.
Mr B disagreed. He said he was very cross with what TSB did. He understood that the 
application was not within its guidelines. What he was cross about was that for three months 
he had been led on a wild goose chase which indicated to him a total lack of training of staff 
and inadequate supervision by TSB. Paying compensation of a negligible amount was not 
going to encourage TSB to take any remedial action or show any remorse for its failing. He 
said that he would give any compensation to charity. The reason he was pursing the 
complaint was the principle that TSB failed and that it didn't seem to have had an adequate 
response from this service for it to act to prevent further occurrences.
Provisional decision
I took a different view from the investigator and so I issued a provisional decision. I noted it 
was agreed TSB provided conflicting information and as a result Mr B and Ms Bs time was 
wasted. My provisional decision was therefore concerned with the compensation to Mr B and 
Ms B.
I noted that it was not only Mr B who was put to extra trouble. Ms B, when visiting the UK, 
had to spend time visiting a TSB Branch and providing information. And because there is no 
postal system in the country in which she is working she couldn't provide any bills with her 
address on them, so she had to go to the UK High Commission and get them to write a letter 
confirming her address. 
Looking at all the inconvenience suffered by Mr B and Ms B I didnt think the compensation 
paid to date was fair. I didnt think TSB had considered the inconvenience experienced by 
Ms B nor had it considered how cross Mr B had felt or that it wasted, he believes, 15 hours 
of his time.
Overall, I thought it would be fair for TSB to pay a further £150 bringing the total 
compensation to £200 (plus the parking costs). I thought this would reflect that Ms B had to 
take time out from her busy schedule to go to the UK High Commission and to visit the TSB 
branch in the UK. It would also compensate Mr B for the time he has taken dealing with the 
frustrating and fruitless application.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B said he was content with the decision. TSB didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B has accepted my decision and TSB hasnt provided anything else for me to consider 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision and confirm it here.
Putting things right
TSB should pay Mr B and Ms B a further £150 bringing the total compensation to £200 (plus 
the parking costs).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order that TSB plc should pay Mr B and Ms B a further £150 
bringing the total compensation to £200 (plus the parking costs).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman