DRN-4008889
The complaint
Mr B complains about his insurer, esure Underwriting Limited (esure) under his motor 
insurance policy. Mr Bs complaint is about esure avoiding his policy for not disclosing 
motoring convictions.
Any reference to esure in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr Bs vehicle was stolen from the driveway of his property during the night. 
He contacted the police to report the theft, who provided him with a crime reference. He also 
reported the theft to esure and lodged a claim.
However, esure subsequently said they were avoiding the policy, from the renewal date of 
31 December 2021. They said that during routine checks as part of assessing the claim they 
found Mr B (and his partner) hadnt disclosed two motoring convictions when taking out (and 
renewing) their policy. Mr Bs conviction dated from November 2018 and his partners 
conviction from July 2018. esure said, had they been made aware of the convictions, they 
wouldnt have offered a quotation for the policy to Mr B, nor issued a policy. esure said they 
would refund the premiums paid in respect of the policy from the date the policy was avoided 
(and charge an administration fee of £26 for avoiding the policy).
Mr B wasnt happy with esure avoiding his policy, so he complained to them. But they didnt 
uphold his complaint, confirming their decision to avoid the policy. In their final response 
esure referred to the General Conditions section of the policy booklet that referred to 
policyholders providing correct information and that  if they fail to do so  if the failure was 
careless and esure wouldnt have issued the policy had they been told the correct 
information, they would treat the policy as if it never existed and return any premium paid. 
esure added they wouldnt have offered to insure Mr B had they known about the previous 
convictions. Esure also said they would refund the premium paid for the policy that ran from 
December 2020 to December 2021 (in addition to refunding the premiums for the policy 
renewed in December 2021). 
Mr B was unhappy at esures final response and complained to this service. He said the 
convictions were minor and had expired before the theft of his vehicle and hed provided 
information to esure to the best of his knowledge. Given the impact of not declaring them, he 
thought esure should have checked to see if he had any convictions when he took out his 
policy. He was left without a vehicle, which had significantly affected him financially and 
emotionally. He wanted esure to accept his claim and pay for the loss of his vehicle.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that esure had acted reasonably and 
in line with the policy terms and conditions in avoiding the policy and declining Mr Bs claim 
for the theft of his vehicle. The investigator thought esures decision that Mr B made a 
qualifying disclosure under The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) was reasonable, as was their decision to treat the misrepresentation as 
careless  and avoiding the policy and declining the claim
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said a minor offence many years ago had no connection and should have no 
bearing on his claim for the theft of his vehicle. He didnt recall the convictions, so the 
information he provided was to the best of his knowledge. He also thought esure should 
have checked the information he gave when the policy was taken out (and then renewed) so 
they would have known about the convictions.
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether esure has acted fairly towards Mr B.
The key issue here is whether esure acted fairly in avoiding Mr Bs policy and declining his 
claim for the theft of his vehicle. esure say Mr B gave incorrect information when he took out 
the policy and at its renewal (by not providing details of the two motoring convictions). Had 
they been told of the convictions, esure say they wouldnt have offered the policy. Mr B 
maintains it was a genuine oversight on his part; that hes forgotten them (so the information 
he provided was to the best of his knowledge); and the convictions were some years ago 
and didnt have any bearing on his claim. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
esure say Mr B failed to take reasonable care when he didnt tell them of the two motoring 
convictions. and, had they known, they wouldnt have offered cover. Ive also seen the 
evidence that esure wouldnt, under its own underwriting guidelines, have offered to cover 
the vehicle if the convictions had been declared (Mr Bs conviction would, on its own, have 
meant cover wouldnt have been offered). That means Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation 
was a qualifying one. But I also accept Mr B may have made a genuine oversight in either 
forgetting about the convictions (given the elapse of time) or that they were minor, so I think 
his misrepresentation was careless (rather than deliberate or reckless). 
As Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions esure can take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA states that when theres a 
careless misrepresentation the insurer may still avoid the policy where it wouldnt have 
offered the cover at all, but it should refund the insurance premiums for the relevant period of 
the cover. As Ive noted, had esure been informed of the convictions then it wouldnt have 
provided cover at all. Given this, then Ive concluded esure acted fairly, in accordance with 
CIDRA, in avoiding the policy (from the date of policy being taken out and renewal) but 
returning the premiums. As such, Ive also concluded that esure acted fairly in declining Mr 
Bs claim.Ive also looked at the policy documents issued in respect of Mr Bs policy. The Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) sets out the more important features of the policy, and 
includes the following statements under the heading Are there any restrictions on cover?:
Claims may be reduced or rejected if it is found the information on the Schedule is 
not accurate
The policy may be cancelled or voided from the start date if it is found the 
information on the Schedule is not accurate.
I think this makes it clear that inaccurate information  which would include not declaring 
convictions  could lead to the policy being cancelled or avoided from the start date. Which is 
what esure did when they found out about the convictions for Mr B and his partner. 
The IPID also contains the following statements under the heading What are my 
obligations?:
To take reasonable care to ensure information provided or confirmed to us before 
you enter into, vary or renew your policy is accurate and not misleading.
To tell us straight away if any details on your Schedule change or are inaccurate.
I think this makes it clear the responsibility for ensuring information provided when the policy 
is taken out (or subsequently) is accurate and complete lies with the policyholder (Mr B). It 
isnt esures responsibility, or for them to check the information. 
Looking at the Car Insurance Schedule issued when the policy was renewed, theres a table 
with a heading Details of the convictions and fixed penalty offences in the last 5 years for all 
the drivers. I think the reference makes it clear that the two convictions for Mr B and his 
partner would fall under this heading (as fixed penalty offences in the last five years). The 
Schedule records None disclosed under the table heading, indicating Mr B didnt disclose 
either conviction.
Ive also considered the points made by Mr B when responding to our investigators view. 
On the point that a minor offence many years ago had no connection and should have no 
bearing on his claim for the theft of his vehicle, I dont agree. As Ive set out above, Mr B was 
asked a clear question about convictions in the previous five years, which he should have 
disclosed. esure have said their underwriting guidelines would have meant they wouldnt 
have offered cover had they known. Thats a commercial decision for them to make, based 
on an assessment of risk. I dont think thats unreasonable.
On the point that Mr B didnt recall the convictions, so the information he provided was to 
the best of his knowledge, I again dont agree. The convictions were two years before the 
policy taken out in December 2020, so I dont think its unreasonable that Mr B would have 
recalled them. In any event, I dont think even if he genuinely had forgotten about them, that 
wouldnt make failure to declare them as careless.  
On the point that esure should have checked the information he gave when the policy was 
taken out, its the responsibility of the policyholder to provide accurate information when 
applying for a policy, as the above references make clear, when entering into the contract of 
insurance.. It isnt the responsibility of the insurer to check or validate the information. But 
that doesnt prevent or preclude them carrying out checks when, for example, receiving and 
assessing a claim. So, esure havent acted unreasonably in this respect.
Based on this, Ive concluded Mr B provided inaccurate information about the convictions, 
which the above references make clear could lead to the policy being cancelled or avoided. As this is what esure did, given they wouldnt have provided a quotation or issued a policy 
had they known about the convictions, Ive concluded they acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman