DRN-4166270
The complaint
Ms C and Mr D have complained about Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SEs (Allianz) 
decision to decline a claim they made on their Housing Warranty Insurance Policy.
What happened
There have been several businesses and individuals involved in the complaint  acting as 
representatives or agents of either Ms C and Mr D or Allianz. But for ease of reference, Ill 
only refer to Ms C and Mr D and Allianz by name in this decision  even when referring to 
the actions or arguments of their representatives.
Ms C and Mr Ds property is covered by a Housing Warranty Insurance Policy, underwritten 
by Allianz. Ms C and Mr D have made a claim to Allianz, for damage caused by defects with 
the construction of a water feature/aquarium wall which separates the orangery from the 
swimming pool.
Ms C and Mr D say the issues should be covered under the main operative clause of their 
policy, or failing that, under the components failure extension to cover.
Allianz says the issues causing the water damage are inadequate waterproofing of the 
marble panelling and missing sealant around an electrical outlet. It says these items dont 
meet the policy definition of structural works and as such arent covered under the main 
operative clause.
Allianz has explained that the components failure extension only provides cover for replacing 
the failed component and not any resultant damage. It also says the extension only covers 
specific components listed on a document called the component life schedule.
Ms C and Mr D werent issued with a component life schedule when they should have been. 
Allianz has since issued one, but it doesnt include the grouting/waterproofing between the 
marble panels or sealant. Ms C and Mr D feel it is disingenuous of Allianz to issue the 
amended schedule excluding the items they want to be covered, but Allianz says they would 
never have been able to be included on the schedule. However, Allianz has offered to refund 
the full premium paid by Ms C and Mr D for the component failure extension as a resolution 
to this complaint.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She agreed 
with Allianz that the defective parts didnt meet the definition of structural works, and so the 
issues wouldnt be covered under the operative clause. She also didnt think the issues 
should be covered under the component failure extension or that Ms C and Mr Ds position 
had been prejudiced by the fact the component life schedule wasnt issued when it ought to 
have been.
Ms C and Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings. So, because no agreement could be 
reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision to give the parties the opportunity to respond before I reached my final decision. 
Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that reached by our 
investigator, in that I think the issues should be covered under the main operative 
clause of the policy. 
Ill explain why below, starting with an explanation of the cover provided under the 
Housing Warranty Insurance Policy. 
What the warranty policy covers
Ms C and Mr Ds policy document details the terms, conditions, and definitions 
applicable to the cover it provides. Ive focussed on the key points relevant below:
Operative clause
The Insurers agree to indemnify the Insured against Loss to the Premises 
caused by a Defect discovered and notified to Insurers during the Cover 
Period and not excluded herein. 
Loss is defined as:
 
The cost of Reinstatement of any part or parts of the Premises which due to 
one Defect suffer Damage. 
Defect is defined as:
 
Any defect in: 
(a) the Structural Works; or
(b) the Premises in respect of Building Regulations: health & safety 
compliance discovered and notified to the Insurers during the Period of 
Insurance which is attributable to a defect in design or workmanship or 
materials which was undiscovered at the Date of Inception.
 
Damage is defined as:
 
(a) Building Regulations: health and safety compliance; or 
(b) Actual Damage; or 
(c) Imminent Damage; or 
(d) Ingress of Water.
Premises is defined as:
 
All Works within the curtilage of the Premises stated in the Schedule 
comprising:a) Structural works
All internal and external load-bearing structures essential to its 
stability or strength;
Drains, walls and windows, plaster, ceilings, staircases, floor 
decking and screeds, chimneys and flues;
The waterproof envelope.
b) External works
.
c) All other works except those described in (9)(a) and (9)(b) above.
Why I think the claim succeeds under the operative clause
What the above means in practice is the policy covers damage (as defined), caused 
by a defect (as defined) in the structural works (as defined).
It isnt in dispute that damage has been caused as a result of defective waterproofing 
and sealing within the aquarium wall, nor that non-loadbearing walls are covered 
within the definition of structural works. But Allianzs position is that the waterproofing 
and sealant dont amount to structural works and so do not trigger cover in the 
circumstances.
Allianz explained its position when writing to Ms C and Mr D to set out its final 
response to their claim and complaint:
Whilst the structural elements of the Aquarium Wall itself would fall within the 
definition of Structural Works, (redacted) found the cause of the damage to be 
insufficient sealing and waterproofing of joints between the marble panels. 
The marble cladding and any associated grouting would not fall within the 
definition of Structural Works  these items are not internal or external load-
bearing structures that are essential to the stability or strength of the 
Premises, nor do they form part of the Waterproofing Envelope defined 
above."
Ive thought carefully about this position, but I dont agree with the interpretation set 
out above. I say this because the definition of structural works breaks it down into 
three separate elements. The first, requires that the internal or external load bearing 
structures which are covered are essential to the stability or strength of the premises. 
But Allianz appears to be seeking to apply this requirement to the second, separate 
part of the definition which covers (non-load bearing) walls. I dont consider this is in 
line with the wording of the definition or that it is fair and reasonable.
I accept that a common definition of the phrase structural works would be unlikely to 
include sealant and grout. But I dont think its fair for Allianz to simultaneously apply 
a common definition of structural works alongside the specific policy definition. The only definition Allianz can fairly apply is the one set out in the policy. And in my 
view, I dont think the policy definition of structural works makes a distinction between 
the structural elements of the wall or the components of the marble panelling 
attached to it. As far as I can see, the definition incorporates walls, and those panels, 
the grout and sealant all make up that wall. So, I think Ms C and Mr Ds property has 
suffered damage as a result of a defect with the structural works (the non-load 
bearing wall). Therefore, I consider that Ms C and Mr Ds claim for damage caused 
as a result of those defects is covered under the operative clause of the policy.
This means my provisional decision is that Allianz should accept and settle Ms C and 
Mr Ds claim in line with the remaining terms of the warranty. If Ms C and Mr D have 
already paid to repair the damage caused by the defects, then Allianz should 
reimburse their costs and add 8% simple interest from the point they were out of 
pocket to the date they are reimbursed, to compensate them for being deprived of 
the use of their money for other purposes.
Whilst the complaint has been with our service, issues have also been highlighted 
with some of the pipework to the aquarium wall. Allianz position again was that the 
pipework wouldnt meet the definition of structural works. And in addition, it 
highlighted the following policy exclusion, with my added emphasis on the key part:
(5) Excluded Perils
(i) Fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, storm, tempest, flood, frost, 
bursting or overflowing of water tanks, pipes or other apparatus, water 
discharged or leaking from an automatic sprinkler installation, 
pressure waves caused by aircraft or other aerial devices travelling at 
sonic or supersonic speeds, the impact of aircraft or other aerial 
devices or articles dropped or falling therefrom or the impact of any 
other vehicle whether licensed or not;
Based on this, I agree that damage caused as a result of burst or overflowing pipes 
would be excluded from cover. So, if Allianz is able to clearly differentiate between 
the damage caused by the sealant and grout issue and that caused by the pipes, it 
can fairly decline to cover the latter. However, in practice I think its unlikely to be 
able to do so. 
Issues with the component failure extension
A large part of Ms C and Mr Ds complaint has centred on whether the issues ought 
to be covered under the extension to cover, if not by the main operative clause. As 
Im currently minded to decide their claim should be covered under the operative 
clause, I dont intend to go into significant detail about this point. But for 
completeness, Ill briefly set out my thoughts to the arguments provided and the 
offers put forward by Allianz.
Since the complaint has been with us, Ms C and Mr D have also highlighted potential 
issues with the aquarium pipework and with a number of taps attached to their home 
water system. The latter issue is separate to the damage caused to the aquarium 
wall. Ms C and Mr D feel these issues, alongside the grout and sealant issues, 
should be considered under the component failure extension which they say should 
incorporate any components not covered under the operative clause.
The definitions applicable to the component life extension are set out in the policy 
booklet:(a) Component Failure
The imminent or actual failure of a Component during the Period of 
Component Insurance due to a Defect which requires the Component to be 
replaced prior to the expiry of its service life as set out in the Component Life 
Schedule.
(b) Component(s)
Works described in Definition (9)(c).
(c) Component Life Schedule
The schedule attached to and forming part of this Policy detailing the 
Component(s) and the service life of the Components forming part of the 
Premises.
(d)Loss
The cost of Reinstatement of any Component(s) which due to one Defect 
suffers Component Failure.
And reinstatement under this section is defined as:
(a)
In respect of actual Component Failure:
the replacement or reinstatement by a similar Component in a condition equal 
to or substantially the same as but not better nor more extensive than its 
condition when new.
In my view, this means Allianz is correct to say that even if the extension did apply to 
the grout, sealant, pipes or taps, only reinstatement of those elements would be 
covered and not any damage caused as a result of their failure.
I dont accept Ms C and Mr Ds argument that the component failure extension 
covers everything not covered under the operative clause. Rather, I think the 
extension only covers components which are specifically listed in the component life 
schedule (along with their service life). I appreciate that Ms C and Mr D werent 
issued with a component life schedule when they ought to have been, and so its 
impossible to say whether the failed components would have been listed on the 
schedule at the time. But Allianz has made two separate offers to Ms C and Mr D in 
order to put right this error, and Im minded to say that this is sufficient to put things 
right in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Allianz has offered to either:
1) Fully refund the premium Ms C and Mr D were charged for the extension and 
treat it as though it never existed, or
2) Allow Ms C and Mr D to provide a list of amendments to the component life 
schedule (CLS) which Allianz has since produced. It will then produce a new 
CLS which will be binding on all the parties. Allianz says it cant guarantee 
that all of the amendments Ms C and Mr D suggest will be included on the 
amended CLS. But as a gesture of goodwill, it offers to include the aquarium 
pipework and taps. Taking everything into account, I think Allianz has made two reasonable offers here. 
So, Ill leave it to Ms C and Mr D to decide which option best suits their needs and 
notify Allianz of their choice, which it should then honour. I dont intend to make any 
other finding or direction on this point.
Distress and inconvenience
Ms C and Mr Ds claim has been ongoing since October 2021. And they have had to 
go through the distress and inconvenience of raising a complaint and later referring it 
to our service when Allianz failed to resolve it to their satisfaction. Because Im of the 
opinion that Allianzs claim decision is unfair, Im also of the opinion that this was 
entirely avoidable. So, it follows that I think a large part of the distress and 
inconvenience they have suffered was caused unnecessarily by Allianz.
To put things right, Im minded to direct Allianz to pay them £300, in addition to the 
awards stated in the above sections, to compensate them for the impact of its unfair 
claim decision.
I asked the parties to provide any additional comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider, before I reached my final decision.
Ms C and Mr D responded to say they accepted my provisional conclusion around the issue 
with the aquarium wall being covered under the operative clause. But they maintained their 
view that the component failure extension should cover all other works not covered under 
the operative clause. They disagreed with my view that Allianz had made two reasonable 
offers in relation to the dispute around the extension to cover, including the issue with the 
pipes and taps. And, in addition, Ms C and Mr D asked that I consider awarding 
reimbursement of the costs theyve incurred in bringing the claim about the aquarium wall.
Allianz responded to say that it accepted my provisional conclusion about the extension to 
cover. But it maintained its view that the aquarium wall issue should not be covered under 
the operative clause because the panels and sealant do not amount to structural works. 
Allianz said that, by my reasoning, it could be argued that curtain rails or paint, once applied 
to a wall, would fall under cover despite clearly not being what the warranty is intended to 
cover.
As both sides have provided their responses, Im moving forward with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, my 
conclusions remain the same as outlined in my provisional decision. Ill explain why, 
addressing each response and issue separately.
Ms C and Mr Ds response
The component failure extension
Ms C and Mr D maintain that the component failure extension should cover all other works 
in line with the definition of the word component in the policy booklet  which I quoted in my 
provisional decision.The definition of component within the component failure extension section is defined as 
works described in definition 9c. This refers to part C of the definition of premises, which 
is also quoted in my provisional decision. However, the very next bullet point, within the 
component failure extension section, specifically explains that the component life schedule 
(CLS) forms part of the policy and lists the components forming part of the premises. So, I 
remain of the view that only components listed on the CLS are covered by the component 
failure extension.
Ms C and Mr D say Allianzs offer to refund the premium for the component failure extension 
and to treat it as though it never existed isnt fair, as they have already suffered a loss which 
should be covered under the extension. And likewise, they dont feel the alternative offer is 
fair either, because Allianz has said it wont guarantee accepting all of their proposed 
amendments to the CLS.
Ive thought carefully about Ms C and Mr Ds concerns here. But, overall, I remain of the 
view that Allianzs offers are fair and reasonable. I say this because I dont think Ms C and 
Mr D would ever have had the unilateral power to decide what is and isnt included on the 
CLS. So, I dont think its unfair for Allianz to say it cant guarantee it will accept all of their 
proposed changes. And, crucially, Allianz has said it will include the taps and pipes as a 
gesture of goodwill  which means the losses Ms C and Mr D have incurred would be 
covered.
If they remain unhappy with this option, Ms C and Mr D can choose to cancel the extension 
to cover and receive a full refund. So, in the circumstances, Im satisfied that Allianz has 
done enough to put right the error it made in not issuing the CLS when it ought to have done. 
Ms C and Mr D should let Allianz know which option they would like to take.
Costs incurred in making the claim
Ms C and Mrs D say theyve incurred significant costs in bringing their claim to Allianz, which 
theyd like to be reimbursed.
Ms C and Mr Ds policy does cover the reimbursement of professional costs in certain 
circumstances. However, costs incurred in preparation of a claim are specifically excluded:
Professional Fees
legal, professional or consultants' fees necessarily and reasonably incurred by the 
Insured in the Reinstatement of the Premises (but not for preparing any claim).
Ive considered whether it would be fair or reasonable to award these costs, despite the 
exclusion, given my decision that Allianz was wrong to decline the aquarium wall claim under 
the operative clause. But although I accept that Ms C and Mr D may have felt they needed to 
obtain legal support to help progress their claim, I dont agree that this was necessary or 
essential in getting to this point.
I say this because Ms C and Mr D could have approached our service free of charge, as 
they subsequently did, and reached the same place on the complaint without incurring those 
fees. So, taking everything into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
direct Allianz to cover costs which Ms C and Mr D would have understood to be specifically 
excluded under the policy terms.Allianzs response
Aquarium wall claim
Allianz says my decision that the defect with the aquarium wall should be covered under the 
operative clause is unfair. It says its not consistent to interpret walls as including any item 
attached to them. It says the word wall would naturally be read to incorporate the structure 
of the wall only, and not items such as marble panelling attached to it. 
Allianz likened the marble panelling and grouting to a curtain rail or paint and argued that the 
latter would clearly not be intended to be covered under the warranty policy.
Ive thought carefully about Allianzs response and arguments. I agree that a hypothetical 
curtain rail attached to a wall, or paint applied to a wall, would most likely not become 
structural works, as defined by the policy, purely because they were attached to the wall. I 
say this because in most cases items such as these would be purely decorative, rather than 
performing a key function of the wall.
But in the particular circumstances of this complaint, which is all Im considering or 
answering in this decision, I remain of the view that that the policy definitions do not clearly 
separate the structure of the wall from the marble panelling and waterproofing attached to it. 
And given the particular nature of the wall in question required it to house an active water 
feature, I consider that the marble panelling and waterproofing (sealant/grouting) are an 
essential part of the function of the wall.
Taking the above into account, in the circumstances of Ms C and Mr Ds complaint, I 
consider that the marble panelling and waterproofing should reasonably be considered 
structural works and so the defects and resultant damage should be covered under the 
operative clause.
Distress and Inconvenience
Neither side provided any additional comments or evidence in respect of the compensation I 
said I was intending to award. So, in the absence of new evidence, Ive reached the same 
conclusion on this point that I reached in my provisional decision  and for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms C and Mr Ds complaint.
 
Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE must:
Accept and settle Ms C and Mr Ds claim for damage caused as a result of the 
defective waterproofing and sealant, including adding 8% simple interest to any 
amounts Ms C and Mr D have already spent in fixing the damage covered under the 
claim, from the date(s) they were out of pocket to the date they are reimbursed.
Based on Ms C and Mr Ds choice, (on the basis that they do choose one of the 
options) either refund the premiums Ms C and Mr D paid for the component failure 
extension or create a new CLS, with input from Ms C and Mr D, which includes the 
pipework and taps  in line with the offer it has already made. 
Pay Ms C and Mr D £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its unfair 
claim decision has caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman