DRN-3340777
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr G bought a used car on 13 July 2020 with the assistance of finance from Santander. Mr 
G states that on the 28 July 2020 the car was making noises and he took it to a garage for 
inspection. Mr G explains that he was advised that the clutch and flywheel needed 
replacement. 
On 28 June 2020 Mr G reported his complaint to Santander and the supplying garage. On 
10 July 2020 Mr G was told by the supplying garage that they would offer a goodwill 
payment of £360 which they believed to be fair but this was the final and only offer.
Mr G rejected that offer and the car was repaired at a third-party garage. Mr G wants 
Santander to pay for the repairs. Santander rejected Mr Gs complaint and said that it had no 
evidence that there was a fault with the vehicle and because Mr G had gone ahead with 
unauthorised third party repairs it could no longer inspect the car.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
thought it should be upheld. They thought that the fact that the car developed a fault so soon 
after purchase suggested that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. They 
thought that Santander should pay for the repairs to the clutch.
Santander didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the dealership had been deprived 
of its right to repair and inspect the car, there was no evidence that the fault was there or 
developing at the point of sale and the customer went ahead and repaired the car whilst it 
was still investigating. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts have been summarised above and are not in dispute so Ill focus on giving reasons 
for my decision.
Both parties have referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). I dont apply the law 
directly in the same way that a court would approach matters but I do take it into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to reject the car if it is 
not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the 
car.
 
I note that the fault first presented after 16 days and after Mr G had travelled around 700 
miles. The responsibility is on Santander as the supplier of the car to show that the car was 
of satisfactory quality when Mr G bought it. I accept that the car had covered over 91,000 
miles at the point of purchase. Mr G paid around £9,600 for the car which was 7 years old. 
Whilst I appreciate that a car of this age and mileage would develop faults and require more 
maintenance than a brand new car I would not expect such a major component to fail which 
would prevent Mr G driving the car within such a short time after purchase. I consider that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Santander states that there is no evidence that the car was faulty at the point of purchase. 
But I think that the fact that it required a major repair so soon suggests that it is likely that the 
fault was there or developing at the point of sale. Mr G wasnt able to cover very many miles 
before the fault prevented him from driving the car so Im not persuaded that this was normal 
wear and tear.
Santander says that it isnt fair that it should have to pay for repairs at it has been deprived 
of an opportunity to inspect and repair the car. I note that Mr G telephoned both Santander 
and the dealership as soon as he was aware of the problem on the 29 June. There is no 
evidence that Santander asked Mr G to return the car to the dealership for inspection or 
repairs. The dealership wrote to Mr G and stated that it was prepared to make a goodwill 
offer of £360 on 10 July and again at no stage was Mr G asked to return the car for 
inspection or repair. I think that Mr G gave both the dealership and Santander an opportunity 
to inspect and repair the car. It is clear from the email sent by the dealership that it was not 
interested in repairing the car. In the circumstances and given how important it was for Mr G 
to have the car on the road, I dont think he was unreasonable in going ahead with the 
repairs. 
I think that Mr G notified Santander and the dealership promptly of the fault and tried to 
negotiate a solution. There is clearly a fault with the car that required repair very soon after 
purchase. In the circumstances I think Santander should pay for the repairs. 
Putting things right
Santander should reimburse Mr G for the cost of the repairs together with 8% simple interest 
to reflect the time he has been out of pocket. I agree with the investigator that it should also 
pay Mr G £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused. So, Santander should:
1. Pay Mr G £987.59 together with 8% simple interest from the date Mr G paid for the 
repairs to the date he gets it back.
2. Pay Mr G £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.   
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman