DRN-1820637
The complaint
Mr D complained about business loans he took out with Lloyds Bank Plc in 2007 and 2018. 
He also complained that Lloyds wouldnt release a life policy on which the loans were partly 
secured.
What happened
In 2007, Mr D took out a business loan with Lloyds for £165,700, in joint names of himself 
and his son. Mr D and his son stopped working together soon afterwards. 
In 2018, Mr Ds relationship manager at Lloyds offered to change the remaining balance of 
the loan, so it was in Mr Ds sole name but with no change to the terms. The replacement 
loan for £101,220 was completed in March 2018.
In February 2019, Mr D went to a branch, because his repayments hed been making on the 
2018 loan had been lower than under the 2007 loan. So Mr D thought he must have been 
overpaying from 2007 to 2018. He asked Lloyds for a copy of his 2007 loan, but said Lloyds 
didnt provide this despite five visits to a branch. When Mr D found a copy of the 2007 loan, 
he felt he owed more in 2018 than he should have done. Mr D also noticed that although the 
2007 loan has specified that a life policy was part of the security for the loan, the 2018 loan 
didnt say that. So he wanted his life policy released. Mr D complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds said that:
- its specialist team had checked the calculations of the 2007 loan. This showed it had 
been correctly set up, and if it hadnt been replaced by the 2018 loan, it would have 
paid off the balance by the agreed end date;
- it enclosed a copy of the 2007 loan as Mr D had requested;
- the person whod set up the 2018 loan had made a mistake when hed set up the end 
date.  This was why Mr Ds payments were lower than before. This meant Mr D had 
underpaid by around £3,600. Lloyds explained that because of the circumstances, it 
was willing to allow Mr D to repay that sum on an interest free basis;
- one of its staff was discussing the release of the life policy with Mr D; and 
- it apologised, and offered to pay £750 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr D wasnt satisfied. He thought the 2007 loan had been wrongly set up, because of a 
quotation hed had some time before the loan had been set up. And he said that after the 
2007 loan had been set up, hed asked for a deferred repayment period. 
Lloyds said that an earlier quotation was just that, a quotation, and it was the loan which Mr 
D had signed which mattered. It said that in any case Mr Ds request for deferred repayment 
would have changed that quotation. It went into detail about the calculations, taking account 
of the deferred repayments, and confirmed that the 2007 loan had been set up correctly.
Mr D still wasnt satisfied, and wrote again with a number of points about Lloyds replies and 
the 2007 loan. Lloyds replied, but didnt change its previous position.
Mr D complained to this service. Meanwhile, Mr D had asked his accountant to check the 
position, and hed asked Lloyds to pay his accountants fees. Lloyds paid Mr Ds 
accountants £648 fee.
Mr D also told the investigator that he was unhappy that Lloyds had centralised small 
business accounts, and said that when hed had a local bank manager, that person had 
understood his business, and any problems had quickly been solved.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. He thought Lloyds evidence showed that the 
2007 loan had been set up correctly. He also looked at the confusion about release of Mr Ds 
life policy. Mr D had originally been told there would need to be a new valuation of the other 
security for the loan, and hed be able to choose the surveyor. But this wasnt right, as the 
terms and conditions required Lloyds to choose the surveyor. The new valuation hadnt been 
carried out when the investigator issued his view, but he thought that Lloyds should pay Mr 
D a further £100 for the confusion.
Lloyds agreed. 
But Mr D wasnt satisfied. He said that what Lloyds had offered in 2018 was an amended 
loan in Mr Ds sole name, on exactly the same terms as before  except without the need for 
the life assurance policy. Mr D said getting a new valuation was irrelevant and Lloyds was 
holding his policy which wasnt right. He also said that Lloyds calculations were based on a 
loan repayment with lower monthly repayments at the start, and higher as the loan went on. 
The quotations had been made on the basis of equal monthly repayments.  Mr D also said 
hed consulted a friend, and between them they felt that interest had been charged and 
taken from his account on drawdown of the loan, not what the 2008 revision to the 2007 loan 
had said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What this decision covers
First, its important to say that this service does not provide an accounting service. So 
although I have looked at the evidence before me, its not for this service to look in detail at 
the calculations of the repayments, or the precise calculations of the underfunding amount 
and related interest figures. 
And this service is bound by rules, which say we can only look at matters about which a 
customer has already complained to the bank. So I cant consider matters which Mr D has 
raised during the course of his complaint, which werent in his original complaint to Lloyds. 
These include:
- his most recent email saying that the 2008 revised contract said interest would be 
added 25 months after drawdown, whereas in fact it had been charged from the 
drawdown of the loan;
- his unhappiness with the centralisation of Lloyds business bank support.  Even if Mr 
D had already complained about this to Lloyds, its a policy decision about which this 
service would not comment.
What I have considered is the three points which Mr D first raised with Lloyds and to which 
Lloyds responded in July 2019. Ive listed these separately below.
Whether Lloyds set up the 2007 and 2018 loan incorrectly Its not in dispute that Lloyds set up the 2018 loan incorrectly by putting in an incorrect 
repayment period. This was why Mr Ds payments had been lower than those under the 
2007 loan. So he hadnt paid enough between the 2018 loan starting in March 2018, and 
when the complaint was dealt with in July 2019. 
Ive also looked at the evidence relating to the 2007 loan. First, the quotations which Mr D 
obtained some time prior to the 2007 loan are not relevant here. Quotations often differ and 
what matters is the loan which Mr D signed. Ive seen the 2007 loan agreement, and Ive 
also seen Lloyds statement to Mr D that its specialist team ran figures to see whether the 
2007 loan would have been paid off if it hadnt been replaced by the 2018 loan but had 
reached its original, natural end date. As Ive explained, its not for this service to recalculate 
the detail of loan figures. But Ive seen nothing to show that this is incorrect. Ive also borne 
in mind that Mr Ds chosen accountant looked at all the figures, paid for by Lloyds, and did 
not immediately dispute the banks July 2019 statement about this. So I consider the 2007 
loan was correctly set up in accordance with the signed loan agreement.  
Ive gone on to consider Lloyds offered solution for the incorrect setting up of the 2018 loan. 
This was that:
- the underpayment of around £3,600 could be arranged on an interest free basis;
- Lloyds apologised, and offered Mr D £750 compensation for the inconvenience;
- Lloyds also paid £648 for Mr Ds chosen accountant to look at the figures which 
Lloyds had provided.
I find that this was a very fair settlement offer for this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
Provision of copies of loan document
I recognise that Mr D said he went to his local branch five times and didnt get a copy of the 
2007 loan agreement. I note that Lloyds enclosed this with its first final response letter on 3 
July 2019. Ive considered whether Mr D should be compensated for not receiving the 
agreement the first time he requested it, but I dont think this would be reasonable. First, we 
all suffer some level of inconvenience in our dealings with organisations, and compensation 
isnt always appropriate. And also, Mr D would have had his own copy at the time when the 
loan was taken out, and customers do have a responsibility to keep important documents 
safe. So I dont require Lloyds to do more about this part of Mr Ds complaint.
The life assurance policy
At the time of Lloyds three final response letters from July 2019 onwards, this third part of 
Mr Ds complaint was still an ongoing issue. Mr Ds point is that the life assurance policy was 
held as security for the 2007 loan, but wasnt on the 2018 loan agreement although it was 
referred to as security in the overdraft facility. Mr D has said that his business site is now 
worth much more than it was originally, and its also worth much more than the outstanding 
loan. He wants the life assurance policy released by Lloyds, partly because hes not able to 
change the beneficiary while Lloyds hold it.
I consider that its fair and reasonable for a lender to have an up to date valuation of the 
security. Ive seen nothing to suggest that a valuation was carried out in 2018 when the 
revised loan was agreed. So the last valuation of Mr Ds business site had been carried out 
around the time of the 2007 loan.  
It seems to me to be quite possible that the person who made the mistakes on the 2018 loan 
term, also mistakenly omitted to record the life assurance policy on the replacement loan. It 
was after all meant to be identical except for the removal of Mr Ds son, and of course the amount which had already been paid off. This is borne out by the fact the life assurance 
policy is mentioned in the overdraft facility.
I consider that a fair and practical solution is needed here. I understand that Lloyds and Mr D 
did agree that a up to date valuation would be carried out. But Lloyds had wrongly told Mr D 
he could use his own surveyor, when that wasnt permitted by the terms and conditions. This 
was a mistake, and I agree with the investigator that Lloyds should pay Mr D £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by this mistake. But it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Lloyds to release the life assurance policy without assurance, from an independent 
surveyor, that the value of the business site alone would be sufficient security for the loan. 
So I find that if Mr D wishes to have his life assurance policy released, he will need to co-
operate with Lloyds in having a survey carried out, to establish whether there is sufficient 
value in the site for the life assurance policy to be released.
Looking at all three elements of Mr Ds complaint to Lloyds in summer 2019, I therefore 
consider that Lloyds should pay Mr D a further £100 compensation for the confusion about 
the choice of surveyor.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
- Lloyds has already paid Mr Ds accountancy fees of £648 to check its calculations, 
which I consider was more than fair;
- I order Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mr D £100 compensation for the confusion about the 
valuation to release the life assurance policy;
- Its not clear to me whether Lloyds has already paid Mr D £750 compensation as 
offered in its letter of 2 July 2019. If it hasnt, I order Lloyds Bank Plc to pay £750 to 
Mr D. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman