DRN-2879547
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. 
Mr B experienced issued with the car. He contacted the supplying dealer and says that the 
car was returned to them and the anti-braking sensor replaced. Mr B says he was provided 
with a courtesy car for 2 days whilst the repairs were carried out.
When the car was returned to Mr B the issue wasnt resolved.  He contacted MotoNovo who 
advised him to take the car back to the supplying dealer.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer who referred it to a specialist, but no faults 
were found.
Mr B continued to experience issues with the car. He contacted the supplying dealer who 
arranged for a main dealer to carry out an inspection. The inspection found faults with the 
DPF, and with the handbrake release and gearbox shift buttons.
Mr B contacted MotoNovo and asked to reject the car. MotoNovo asked Mr B for evidence 
that the supplying dealer had attempted a repair. The supplying dealer said it hadnt carried 
out any repairs to the anti-braking system but had covered the cost of a diagnostic test.
MotoNovo upheld the complaint and said that the supplying dealer should repair the car. it 
said it wouldnt agree a rejection because there was no evidence of previous repairs.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He said hed lost 
confidence in the car and had decided to voluntary terminate the agreement because 
MotoNovo hadnt accepted rejection. He feels that it is unfair for MotoNovo to charge him the 
shortfall balance because he thinks a rejection shouldve been accepted. He also said he 
hadnt been given a log book for the car for several months.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought it was more likely than not that the 
supplying dealer had carried out repairs in August 2019. He also thought there was enough 
evidence of a fault prior to the inspection by the main dealer, which of itself had given the 
supplying dealer the opportunity to repair the car. The investigator said that MotoNovo 
should waive the shortfall, refund the deposit, amend Mr Bs credit file and pay 
compensation of £100 for trouble and upset. 
MotoNovov didnt agree. It said the supplying dealer denied repairing the anti-brake sensor 
and there was no evidence to show that these repairs were carried out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months after supply, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally 
up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the 
fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the 
burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
In this case theres no dispute that theres a fault with the car. MotoNovo has accepted that 
there is a fault and has agreed to be responsible for repairs. The real issue here is whether 
Mr B was denied his right to reject the car. he says he shouldve been allowed to reject the 
car because the previous repairs failed. MotoNovo says the supplying dealer denies any 
previous repairs and that under the relevant legislation it should be give the opportunity to 
repair.
Ive considerer all the available evidence to decide whether there has been a previous 
attempt at repair. Mr B says he returned the car to the supplying dealer within a few weeks 
of getting it, having reported issues with the car losing power. Mr B says the supplying dealer 
told him that it had replaced the anti-braking sensor when it returned the car to him having 
retained it for 2 days.
The supplying dealer says it didnt carry out repairs and that there is nothing on its system to 
show that it did. This service asked the supplying dealer to confirm the date when Mr B 
returned the car and how long it was retained, but no information has been provided. Ive 
seen an invoice dated 23 August 2019 which was issued by the specialist to the supplying 
dealer in relation to a diagnostic. This supports Mr Bs testimony when he says that the car 
was returned to the supplying dealer a second time with the same power loss issue. And 
although the invoice doesnt provide that the supplying dealer had attempted a repair, it does 
corroborate Mr Bs version of events.
Taking everything into consideration, I think its more likely than not that the supplying dealer 
had seen the car on one occasion before it referred the car to the specialist. The supplying 
dealer paid for the diagnostic, which leads me to think it was already aware that something 
was wrong with the car.
The fact that theres no evidence of a repair to the car by the supplying dealer doesnt mean 
that it didnt happen. On the balance of probability, and in the absence of any information 
from the supplying dealer in response to the questions put by this service as to when it had 
the car, Im persuaded that the supplying dealer attempted repirs in the car on the first 
occasion that it was returned, as per Mr Bs testimony.
MotoNovo refused to accept a rejection due to lack of evidence of a previous repair. As Ive 
said, Im persuaded that there was an attempt at repair, so I think MotoNovo shouldve 
accepted a rejection when Mr B requested this.
Even if Im wrong about the previous repair, I still think Mr B shouldve been allowed to reject 
the car when he requested this. This is because I think theres enough evidence to show that 
Mr B had reported the fault to the supplying dealer within 30 days. Mr B entered into the agreement on 27 June 2019 and the quote for the oil filter was dated 31 July 2019. This 
suggests that Mr B raised his concerns and took the car back to the dealer within the first 30 
days. Under the relevant legislation, a fault which occurs in the first 30 days entitles a 
consumer to exercise an immediate right to reject.
Putting things right
Mr B has voluntary terminated the agreement and has been left with a shortfall. If Mr B had 
been allowed to reject the car when he requested this, the shortfall wouldnt have arisen. So, 
in order to resolve things fairly now, MotoNovo should waive the shortfall.
If Mr B had been allowed to reject the car when he requested to do so, he would have 
received a refund of his deposit and monthly payment (subject to deduction for use). In this 
case, I think Mr B has had fair use. He was provided with a courtesy car during the times 
when he couldnt use his own car. So, I wont be asking MotoNovo to refund monthly 
payments.  However, the deposit should be refunded.
Mr B has suffered trouble and upset as a result of being supplied with a car which wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Hes had to return the car to the supplying dealer more than once and 
has had times when he was without his car. I think its fair to ask MotoNovo to compensate 
Mr B for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
Waive the shortfall under the agreement
Refund the deposit paid by Mr B plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file in relation to the agreement 
Pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman