DRN-2359000
The complaint
Mr D complains that Forester Life Limited failed to process the cheques his mother sent to a 
child trust fund (of which he was trustee) for the past two years. He is also unhappy with 
returns since Forester took over the fund.
What happened
An investigator at this service did not believe his complaint should be upheld.
She said it was not within this services remit to examine the success or otherwise of a 
business management strategy including any investment performance. We could investigate 
allegations of mismanagement or neglect but Mr D had not offered any evidence of these 
things.
She also felt that Forester had acted transparently and fairly when changing the way it 
accepted payments into its inherited child trust funds. She noted that Mr D had been sent a 
letter in November 2016 informing him that it, Forester, was transferring the funds to 
Forester Life Limited in January 2017. She said that as Mr Ds mother was not a trustee it 
had no obligation to inform her of this change. This letter spelt out the new registered 
address of the fund. She noted that Forester had subsequently sent Mr D annual statements 
with this address on them. So she was satisfied it had made clear to Mr D, the trustee of this 
fund, that any new money would need to be sent to its address.
She also noted that Forester had a mail redirection service - for 12 months - to catch any 
cheques sent after the transfer. This, she said, explains why some of Mr Ds mothers 
cheques were deposited following the transfer.
She accepted that Mr D was disappointed that Forester didnt explicitly tell him that the 
freepost would no longer work after 12 months but she didnt believe it was required to do 
so. Further, she would not expect Forester Life to monitor trust funds to check whether no 
new money was being added.
She also noted that Mr D had confirmed that the money never left his mothers account, and 
this has been over a two-year period during which neither Mr D or his mother had chased 
this up.
Mr D did not agree with her conclusions, and said:
When Forester took over the fund the terms and conditions did not change
Numerous cheques (from numerous different sources) were sent via the freepost 
service in 2017 and these were put into the account without question
The company were therefore aware the majority of the money was coming via the 
freepost service
The same procedure was used in 2018 and he only realised these cheques hadnt 
been processed when he received the annual statement
The annual growth of the fund since inception had averaged £995, so the figure of 
£41 for 2018 indicates there must have been some mismanagement after Forester 
took over
The fact that his mother is not a trustee is not relevant; he as the trustee was not 
informed of the change in conditions
The simple mechanism for paying in funds from various sources was a major selling 
point for the chosen fund
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I largely agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. Its important to 
explain that my role, and that of this service, is to decide whether a business clearly did 
something wrong  not whether it might have done things differently. In this context, Im not 
persuaded that Forester did anything wrong (acted unfairly, failed to communicate a change 
in process etc.).
I also dont agree that there was a change in the terms and conditions after Forester took 
over.
Forester took over the previous business funds and was entitled to operate these from its 
new address. It was only required to inform trustees and policyholders  not everyone who 
had historically made a contribution to these funds. I do accept that its letter of November 
2016 could have been more explicit in spelling out that future payments would need to be 
sent to its Bromley address. But given it set up a 12-month freepost service, I dont think this 
alone is sufficient to conclude that it acted unfairly.
I also dont believe it was required to maintain this freepost service indefinitely - 12 months 
seems reasonable  and I dont agree that it should have monitored payments via this 
freepost service and contacted the donors to point out they needed to send future payments 
to a different address. 
Overall, while I fully understand Mr Ds frustration, I dont agree that Forester ought to have 
done more to make him aware of the need for new monies to be sent to its address.
Finally, I have seen no evidence to suggest that Foresters has mismanaged these funds 
since taking over. I accept that returns have fallen, particularly in the past year, but this isnt 
an indicator of mismanagement as the value of the underlying assets have always fluctuated 
significantly; also, the past 18 months have generally delivered poor returns across a range 
of investments.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman