DRN-2042269
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the quality of the repairs Aviva Insurance Limited completed under the 
Home Emergency section of her home insurance policy.
What happened
I understand Mrs As family have been acting on her behalf throughout this case. For the 
purposes of this decision, I will refer to any contact on her behalf as if Mrs A did this herself.
On 23 March 2020, Mrs A took out home insurance with Aviva. Four days later, she made a 
claim on the policy as she reported objects falling from the roof. It was agreed in this call that 
the claim would be dealt with under the Home Emergency section of the policy, due to 
concerns for the residents safety and the urgency of getting the roof looked into.
An engineer attended the property the next day and said the roof had suffered storm 
damage. A temporary repair to the roof was arranged, but this required scaffolding due to 
the height of the property. In April 2020, the scaffolding was arranged and the temporary 
repair was completed. But Mrs A was advised that shed gone over the limit for Home 
Emergency cover, so shed need to make a payment to cover this additional amount. Mrs A 
said she wasnt able to make this payment. She was informed that the roof was badly 
damaged and would need a permanent repair, so a separate claim could potentially be put in 
under another section of her policy, or she could cover this herself.
In June 2020 Mrs A contacted Aviva Home Emergency again about her roof. She said the 
temporary repair hadnt been completed adequately and had allowed water to enter the 
property, causing internal damage and leaving the house in a dangerous state. An engineer 
attended and confirmed that no permanent repairs had been completed to the roof and water 
was now leaking into the property.
Aviva said another Home Emergency claim could be made. But as scaffolding would be 
required again, the policy limit would again be exceeded. So, as before, Mrs A would need to 
cover this additional cost herself. And as she still hadnt paid the amount she owed for the 
previous claim, it wouldnt carry out any further work in advance of payment being made.
Mrs A made a formal complaint to Aviva. She said the repairs had been inadequate and had 
led to serious internal damage in her house. She said Aviva was required to fix this damage 
and that it couldnt leave her home the way it was as it breached health and safety. She also 
made a complaint about the claim she made on another part of the policy, but this decision 
only relates to her Home Emergency claims.
Aviva didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said that the Home Emergency section of her policy 
was only designed to complete temporary repairs  which it had done. It didnt agree the 
repair had failed and instead said it had completed its purpose. It said the issue was that 
Mrs A hadnt gone on to get a permanent repair. It also maintained it had acted fairly in not 
carrying out any further work, considering the policy limit would be exceeded and Mrs A 
confirmed she wouldnt be making any payments herself.
Mrs A brought her complaint to our service as she didnt agree Aviva could refuse to help her 
further. Or that the repairs carried out were sufficient. Our investigator didnt uphold her 
complaint. He agreed that Aviva had acted in line with her policy terms and that the repair 
was sufficient for what it was  a temporary repair. Mrs A disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms of Mrs As policy and these set out that any repairs carried out are 
subject to a £1,000 per claim limit. And the policy wording for Home Emergency cover 
doesnt suggest that it will carry out any form of permanent repair. Im also aware that 
Avivas representative made it clear to Mrs A that the Home Emergency element of her 
insurance was only for temporary repairs in emergency situations, and that a claim under 
another part of her policy would need to be made for a permanent repair. So on that basis 
Im satisfied it was made clear to Mrs A that this repair was temporary.
Mrs A has said the repair was inadequate and that it caused water to leak into her home. 
However the images of her roof prior to the repair show very severe damage. So Im not 
persuaded that the repair caused any additional damage to her roof and so the resulting 
situation.
The report from the engineer who attended explains that they were limited to what they could 
do temporarily, due to the level of damage. So I think its more likely the water leak was a 
result of existing damage. And, as Mrs A didnt get a permanent repair done, the temporary 
repair was then forced to act as a long-term repair and so naturally, it failed. I cant hold 
Aviva responsible for this as it isnt required to maintain Mrs As property  that is her 
responsibility. And as Ive set out above, this decision is only in relation to her claim under 
the Home Emergency cover.
I understand that Mrs A couldnt afford to pay the additional costs above her policy limit. And 
I do appreciate that the current pandemic has left her family in a very difficult position 
financially. However this doesnt mean Aviva was required to pay out beyond the policy limit. 
So it didnt have to arrange for further temporary repairs when it knew these would cost more 
than the limit  and Mrs A wouldnt be able to pay this money. And I cant say Aviva should 
have covered these costs for her or that it acted unfairly by not putting her further into debt. I 
also note that Mrs A wasnt willing to work with Aviva in this situation, so I dont think it was 
being unreasonable by acting the way it did.
I do appreciate Mrs A is in a very difficult position, as she has damage to her property she 
cant afford to have repaired. However I cant say Aviva has acted unfairly in relation to how 
its dealt with her Home Emergency claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman