DRN-3973933
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money she lost after she fell 
victim to a scam.   
What happened
Mrs B wanted to buy a particular style of designer handbag made by a luxury fashion brand. 
Shes explained she found a handbag advertised on a well-known social media marketplace 
for £405 - plus a small amount for postage.  
Mrs B has provided us with the messages shared between her and the seller and whilst I 
can see little discussion as to the description of the handbag, the seller had uploaded photos 
of the bag in question and described the handbag as being genuine. The seller was also 
able to provide a receipt for the bag that had their name printed on it and appeared to show 
an original purchase date of around a year before. Mrs B recalls seeing pictures showing the 
inside and outside of the bag and its branding. Mrs B says she knows lots about the bag in 
question and was satisfied it was genuine. 
Mrs B says the handbag was used but looked in good condition overall and that she 
expected a pre-owned handbag to cost less than it would to buy new. Mrs B said she wasnt 
concerned about the price at the time although she recognised it was slightly cheaper than 
usual. Mrs B decided to buy the handbag. 
Mrs B also explained that prior to this purchase, shed used the same online marketplace to 
buy a similar bag for £450 but this had turned out to be a scam and Santander had refunded 
her the amount lost. Mrs B says she was concerned that this might happen to her again, so 
she asked the seller if she could collect the bag or pay via using a method that offered her 
more protection than a bank transfer  as she was aware bank transfers offered her little to 
no protection. The seller told Mrs B that she only accepted bank transfers, and she would 
have to trust what she was being told. Mrs B said she spoke to Santander and was informed 
that if she used goods and services her purchase would be covered and so she proceeded 
on this basis. 
Mrs B transferred £405 from her Santander account to the bank details provided by the 
seller. It was agreed the seller would send the item in the post. 
When nothing arrived, Mrs B contacted the seller. She sent numerous messages but the 
seller didnt respond. When Mrs B realised that she wasnt going to receive the bag or her 
money back, she contacted the bank for help. Santander contacted the receiving bank the 
next day but was unable to recover any of the money shed sent. 
It doesnt appear that a formal response from Santander was ever sent to Mrs B in the form 
of a final response letter. However, the banks system notes show it did consider whether it 
ought to refund Mrs B for her loss. 
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM or the CRM Code) and so Santander considered its obligations under it. Santander 
told our service that it had turned down Mrs Bs claim and said it was not responsible for the 
loss. Specifically, Santander said Mrs B hadnt completed any checks to verify that what she 
being told was genuine before sending the payment. It also said Mrs B had fallen victim to a 
similar scam before and in response to this it had provided her with information about how to 
protect herself going forward  and this included information about the price of products 
being too good to be true and sellers who are insistent on bank transfers online. Mrs B didnt 
agree with Santanders position and asked us to look into things.  
One of our investigators looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He said he 
couldnt fairly require Santander to refund Mrs B. He didnt think Santander should have 
intervened to stop the payment from being made, or that the bank should have refunded Mrs 
Bs loss under the CRM Code. He pointed out that genuine handbags from this particular 
brand normally sell for a considerably higher sum than Mrs B paid, even second hand. He 
felt this should have indicated to Mrs B that things might not be quite right especially given 
that she had fallen victim to a very similar scam previously. He added that there was nothing 
to show Mrs B had taken any steps to satisfy herself of the legitimacy of the seller or the 
item, she had simply accepted what the seller told her.
Mrs B was disappointed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh. She said she wouldnt have made the payment if the bank hadnt 
told her that she would be covered if she used goods and services.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Santander should have reimbursed Mrs B under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Mrs B from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs B was tricked into making the payment. She thought she 
would receive a handbag in exchange for her money and the seller did not keep to their side 
of that bargain. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mrs B to receive a refund of the 
money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mrs B too. 
The CRM Code Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for Santander to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care 
under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
othe payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; 
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
The customer has been grossly negligent 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
In this case, I think Santander has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Mrs B under the terms of the CRM Code. And Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of this 
this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Santander has raised about 
the legitimacy of the transaction Mrs B was making are enough to support its position that 
she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment she 
made. I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine 
goods and the person she transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why. 
Mrs B has told us as much as she can remember from the time and she has been able to 
provide copies of the messages shared between her and the seller about the sale and some 
photographs of the handbag. The conversation is limited but from the evidence that is 
available for me to consider, I think Mrs B should have had done more than she did to 
question the deal and to satisfy herself that it was legitimate before making the payment. 
Mrs B had fallen victim to a very similar scam in the past and she had been told to be 
suspicious of sellers asking for bank transfer only. And I can see that Mrs B recognised this 
at the time. She told the seller she had been told that she wouldnt be covered if she paid by 
bank transfer and asked if she would set up a money transfer account instead but the seller 
refused. She also refused to let Mrs B collect the handbag in person.  
Mrs B had also been told to be concerned about sellers advertising goods at a much lower 
price than would be expected. Mrs B has also told us that she knew lots about the style of 
handbag in question and she recognised that this one was cheaper. Mrs B has told us she 
agreed to purchase the bag because it was a good price. Mrs B told us she recognised how 
much a used handbag in good condition typically sells for and that the unused item was over 
£1,000. 
I am aware that online marketplaces are an increasingly common way for private sellers to 
sell items they no longer want, use or need. Its possible that a private seller looking to make 
a quick sale might be more open to negotiate on the price or to sell an item for less than it 
might typically be worth. So I accept that people can and do find good deals online. But price can be one indicator that there is potentially something untoward about the seller or the 
proposed deal. 
From what Mrs B has said, she knew or ought reasonably to have known that the sellers 
price was out of keeping with how much that style of handbag typically costs, even when 
second hand. In fact, Im persuaded it was around half of what someone should expect to 
pay. And I think Mrs B should have questioned in her own mind why the seller was prepared 
to let a valuable item go for such a low amount and made further enquiries to satisfy herself 
that there was nothing untoward about the situation. Especially when she had previously 
attempted to buy the same bag for a slightly higher price before and this had turned out to be 
a scam.
What Mrs B wanted to buy is an expensive item from a prestige brand. Mrs B had been 
scammed before on the same site and she had been told be wary of sellers selling such 
items under market value. She also hadnt dealt with this specific seller before and they had 
refused less risky methods of payment or to allow Mrs B to pick up the handbag in person, 
and Im satisfied this increased the level of potential risk involved. 
Mrs B has pointed out that the seller had confirmed the bag was genuine and she could trust 
her. But I think it was highly questionable that Mrs B would get a genuine handbag from this 
particular designer for the agreed price. Added to this, Mrs B did not know the seller but 
simply took at face value that she could be trusted.  
Im persuaded Mrs B should have weighed up everything she knew and what the seller had 
told her  and questioned whether the deal she thought she was entering into was too good to 
be true and she ought to have recognised there was a risk associated with the purchase - 
that there was a possibility she wouldnt receive the bag. And the messages shared between 
Mrs B and the scammer indicate that Mrs B was concerned but she made the payment 
regardless. I think its more likely than not Mrs B took a chance by going ahead with the 
purchase in the circumstances she did. But by doing so, I think she fell below the level of 
care expected of her under the CRM Code. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs B has told us about Santander saying she would be 
covered if she paid via goods and services. I have no reason to doubt that this conversation 
did take place but its not particularly clear what she means by this. Mrs B tells the seller she 
knows shes not covered if she makes payment via bank transfer, this is why she enquires if 
the seller will set up an online money transfer account, but then she goes on to make the 
payment via bank transfer regardless. Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs B was aware that 
paying via bank transfer offered little protection, she confirms as much herself, but she goes 
on to use this method regardless.
Should Santander have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mrs B? 
Ive thought about whether Santander did enough to protect Mrs B from financial harm. The 
CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they should 
provide effective warnings to their customers. The code also says that the assessment of 
whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether 
compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mrs B made this payment, Santander should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). Mrs B was making an unremarkable payment  I dont think it stood out enough for 
Santander to have been concerned that she might have been at risk of financial harm from 
fraud at the time she made it. 
Once it was made aware of the scam, Santander contacted the receiving bank to try to 
recover the funds Mrs B had sent, but it was told that none remained in the receiving 
account. I havent seen any evidence to show me when the funds left the receiving account 
but given that it appears that Mrs B was dealing with a professional scammer, Im satisfied 
that its more than likely they were withdrawn straightaway.
Taking everything into account, I think Santanders actions in this particular case were 
appropriate and proportionate to a payment of £405.
Summary
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs B and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. She sent her money in good faith and 
did not receive anything in return. But I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for the actions 
of a fraudster. I can only look at the banks position on Mrs Bs fraud claim and its 
assessment under the CRM Code. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied the bank has been able to establish it can 
choose not to refund Mrs B under the CRM Code. Im also satisfied the bank processed Mrs 
Bs payment correctly and it did all it could to help her once it knew what had happened. 
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mrs B, but I cant fairly say Santander should have done more 
or that it should refund the money that she has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman