DRN-2412579
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited handled her claim on her 
furniture protection insurance.
What happened
Mrs A purchased a three piece suite in 2013. With it she brought a five year protection plan 
insurance policy that was underwritten by Assurant. In 2018 she made a claim on the 
insurance as the sofa had been damaged by a leak in her ceiling and there was staining on 
the sofa cushions from tar transferred by clothing.
Assurant sent its agent to inspect the furniture. Following this it confirmed that the damage 
from the ceiling leak wasnt covered under the policy. Mrs A accepted this. However it said 
the staining on the sofa cushions was covered and that it would arrange to a technician to 
attend to try and remove the stain. 
The technician attended and attempted to remove the staining. However this wasnt 
successful so he recommended that the seat covers of the sofa were replaced.
However after new covers were requested, the manufacturer confirmed that the covers had 
been discontinued so they couldnt be supplied. 
Instead another technician attended and tried to remove the stain again but was 
unsuccessful. So he tried to use a colour dye to recolour the leather and cover the stains 
instead. This appeared to be successful.
Shortly after the visit Mrs A contacted Assurant again. She said the dye had made the seat 
covers a completely different colour to the rest of the sofa, and they had started to crack 
where the dye had been applied.
Another technician visited. Following the inspection he said the colour change and dryness 
had been caused by sunlight damage rather than failed repairs. Assurant wrote to Mrs A to 
explain that this was excluded under the policy so it wouldnt be taking any further action.
In March 2020 Mrs A made a complaint to Assurant. She said she had been to the same 
furniture retailer to buy a replacement sofa and they had advised her that sofa cushions 
should be covered under the policy. She said she didnt think it was fair that shed been left 
with a sofa that had different colour cushions which meant she had felt she needed to 
replace it.
Assurant didnt uphold her complaint. It said that its technician had advised that it was 
sunlight damage that was causing the recurring damage and not the repairs, so it was right 
to rely on the exclusion in the policy.
Mrs A still didnt think this was fair as she said the cushions had been repaired numerous 
times by Assurants technicians and each time the repair had failed. She therefore thought it 
was the technician who was responsible for the current condition of the sofa cushions. She 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs As complaint was upheld. She said that sunlight 
damage hadnt been noted at any point during the initial inspections, so she agreed that the 
technician is likely responsible for the most recent damage. She therefore thought that 
Assurant should pay Mrs A for the cost of the sofa plus 50% of the other items that would 
need to be replaced in order to have a matching set.
Mrs A accepted our investigators opinion. However Assurant didnt agree. It said that due to 
the dry patches on the sofa, caused by sunlight damage, a further repair wasnt possible. 
And damage caused by sunlight is excluded under the policy, so it didnt agree that it should 
pay for a replacement.
As Assurant didnt agree, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has declined Mrs As claim as it says the damage to the sofa cushions has been 
caused by sunlight which is excluded under the policy. I can see in the policy wording that 
this is listed as an exclusion in the what is not covered section. I need to decide if Assurant 
has applied this exclusion fairly in this case.
When the claim was first made, Assurants technician concluded that the staining appeared 
to be from a one off event, so should be accepted under the accidental damage cover in the 
policy. So at this stage Assurant agreed the damage was covered by the policy.
However its technician wasnt able to repair it, and the seat cushions were no longer 
available to replace. After another two attempts at removing or covering up the stain 
Assurant was satisfied that it had completed a sufficient fix.
However Mrs A has said that Assurant dyed the sofa cushions in order to cover up the stain 
and this had made the cushions much darker than the rest of the sofa. Ive looked at the 
photos of the sofa and the contrast in colours is very clear and I can see the sofa is starting 
to crack and peel. 
Assurant has said that that the reason the fix hasnt been successful is because the sofa 
cushions had been damaged by sunlight and the leather had become very dry. And, as 
damage caused by sunlight isnt covered, any further fixes wouldnt be provided under the 
policy. 
I have considered this and I dont agree this is a fair application of the exclusion. Assurant 
has already accepted the damage to the sofa cushions is covered under the policy and 
attempted to repair it. When a repair is carried out under an insurance policy, we would 
expect this to be effective and long lasting. Its clear from the photos that Assurants most 
recent repair is neither. In fact, the sofa now appears in a worse condition that it was when 
the stain was reported, as the seat cushions are a much darker shade than the rest of the 
sofa. So I dont think this is an effective repair.
 
Further, Assurant has sent a number of technicians to inspect and repair the sofa. And none 
of the previous technicians included sunlight damage in their reports about the damage. So I 
havent seen enough evidence to suggest that the poor condition of the sofa cushions is due 
to sunlight damage. Instead, I think its more likely that Assurant has failed to carry out a suitable repair to the original stain.
The policy states as follows:
if a repair cannot be achieved, [Assurant] may choose to replace the damaged part, and in 
the event of this not being possible, may provide a replacement product at [Assurants] 
discretion
In this case, I am satisfied that Assurant hasnt completed a suitable repair to the original 
problem that it accepted under the policy. I therefore dont think its fulfilled its obligation 
under the policy. 
As the policy states that where a repair is not possible, then the item may be replaced, I 
think that is the most suitable option in this case. And it will put Mrs A back in the position 
she would have been in had Assurant not carried out unsuitable repairs. So I agree with our 
investigator that Assurant should pay the £1,599 Mrs A paid for the original sofa. And, as it 
was part of a set, I also agree it should contribute 50% of the matching items as she may 
also wish to replace these. So I will require Assurant to pay a total of £2,594 to cover this.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs As complaint and require Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs A the cost of the original sofas and 50% of the matching items 
- a total of £2,594. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman