DRN-4238230
The complaint
Miss V has complained about the premium charged at renewal for her lifetime pet insurance 
policy with Great Lakes Insurance SE.
What happened
Miss V took out the policy in September 2021. Miss V says her decision to take the policy 
with Great Lakes was influenced by the marketing material and policy information, which 
stated that Great Lakes would not give new customers better deals than existing customers 
and would not increase premiums just because a claim has been made.
Miss V made six claims for her pet during the policy year, including for an intolerance to 
standard food which means her pet has to have prescription food. 
When Miss V received the renewal invitation in September 2022, the premium had increased 
from £66.99 per month to £115.20 per month. And she noted that the documentation said 
that one of the factors taken into account, which might have increased the price of the policy, 
was her claims history. 
Miss V obtained a quote from Great Lakes online as a new customer entering in the same 
breed, age and postcode as her pet to see how much impact the claims history had on the 
premium and obtained a quotation for £81.14 per month, i.e. £34.06 pm less than she had 
been quoted by Great Lakes to renew her policy. 
Miss V is very unhappy about this as she says it is contrary to the promises she was made 
when she first took out the policy. Miss V therefore says the policy was mis-sold. She asked 
Great Lakes to do the following: 
Change the premium to the amount it had been quoted as new customer (i.e. £81.14 
per month). 
Agree to not include any further increases in the cost of policy renewal due to i) 
claims history or ii) new vs existing customer premium differences, for as long as she 
continues to insure with Great Lakes. And to issue her with a cost breakdown of the 
premium increases for each renewal of the insurance policy, proving this. 
Refund any overcharged premium costs incurred while this complaint is being 
investigated.
Pay £20 compensation to cover her reasonable expenses incurred in pursuing the 
complaint (time, stress and the cost of recorded postage posting letters of complaint).
Issue an apology for the misleading information it gave regarding insurance premium 
rises, as well as for the time and effort she has spent in pursuing the complaint.
Great Lakes said that when Miss Vs policy first started, it did take account of the costs of 
claims made by its policyholders but the cost was spread across all customers. It confirms 
that since July 2022 it changed the way it prices its pet policies and does take account of 
claims made on an individual basis. Great Lakes says it is entitled to make this change.
Great Lakes said it could not give a breakdown of its pricing decisions, as this would include 
commercially sensitive material. It also said that the details Miss V had entered when getting 
a quote as a new customer said the pet was 5 years old, and with no claims history, which 
is why it was cheaper. However, it offered £20 compensation and said that as Miss Vs pet 
had no pre-existing conditions, she was free to take insurance elsewhere.
Miss V remained unhappy and referred the complaint to us. She asked for increased 
compensation. She also said Great Lakes had tried to discourage her from bringing the 
complaint to us by false stating that we are  not in a position to instruct [it] on how [to] 
operate a business overall including the calculations of our policy premiums." She says this 
is false and caused her distress and anxiety. 
Miss V also said she disclosed her pets full vet records to another lifetime pet insurer and it 
imposed pre-existing condition exclusions, which shows she will find it difficult to change 
insurer now. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He initially recommended that Great Lakes 
pay £100 compensation and recalculate the premium based on what it would have charged 
a new customer, as he was satisfied that Miss V had been charged more as an existing 
customer and thought this was unfair, given what she had been told when she first took out 
the policy.
Great Lakes did not accept the Investigators recommendation as it said the new customer 
price Miss V obtained was based on a pet having had no health issues for 24 months prior, 
which is not the case for Miss Vs pet. If Miss V were a new customer, it would underwrite 
the policy according to her pets risk, which would have meant a new monthly premium of 
£108.45 and a lower cover limit of £1,500 for pre-existing conditions. Whereas her renewal 
was £115.20 per month with a cover limit of £15,000, having made six claims in the first 
policy year. Great Lakes therefore said this was not comparable and she was not 
disadvantaged as an existing customer. 
Having reviewed the matter, the Investigator accepted Great Lakes had calculated the 
premium correctly but recommended that Great Lakes pay Ms V compensation of £400 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused when finding out that the basis of pricing for the 
policy had changed. 
Great Lakes does not accept the Investigators assessment. It says that the breed of       
Miss Vs pet and her home postcode were the biggest risk factors which affected the pricing 
of her policy. The impact of the claim on the pricing was one of its lowest ratings. Great 
Lakes therefore considers the compensation proposed by the Investigator to be 
disproportionately high and out of line when considered against other similar complaints. It 
suggested £300 would be more appropriate. 
Great Lakes also said that any compensation would be a one-off and now that Miss V is 
aware that premiums can increase and that claims can be a rating factor, it would not pay 
compensation to her again if she complains about her renewal pricing in the future.
Miss V does not accept the Investigators assessment either. She says the compensation 
recommended does not fully compensate her for this matter. She also says that if there is no 
recourse or consequence for Great Lakes betraying its promise that claims made will not 
affect future premiums this will set a precedent and this is an issue that will have affected 
many more lifetime insurance customers with Great Lakes and potentially other insurers 
wishing to follow suit. Miss V says that while Great Lakes is entitled to change its business 
model in relation to new customers, it should have to continue providing insurance to existing customers subject to the terms and promotional material provided to them at the 
outset.    
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy pricing
It is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that 
they want to charge for that cover, based on the risk that it thinks a customer presents. 
Normally insurers calculate a base premium rate for a policy and then other factors they 
consider relevant to the risk being covered are applied, which might bring that base premium 
up or down. There is no limit to how much the premium could be and I cant impose one. 
Different insurers apply different factors. In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase 
each year as the pet gets older and the cost of medical treatment rises. In addition, certain 
breeds are more prone to injuries/illness at different ages. It is not unfair or unusual therefore 
for these factors to be significant in the decision made by an underwriter about how much it 
wants to charge for the cover to continue. Some insurers also take account of claims made. 
We have no power to make an insurer calculate risk in any particular way, provided it has 
applied its criteria fairly. I do not therefore think that Great Lakes was misleading Miss V 
when it told her we could not instruct it on how to operate its business, including how it 
calculated premiums. Similarly, individual consumers have a choice about which policy and 
which insurer they wish to take insurance with, or not take insurance at all (unless its a 
requirement, legal or otherwise) and meet any treatment costs themselves. 
I cant set out in detail all the factors that Great Lakes considers relevant and applies to its 
policies and the ratings it applied for each of these factors, as these are commercially 
sensitive. However, I have considered the information it has provided. Great Lakes has 
confirmed that the number of claims made by Miss V in the policy year 2021 to 2022 was a 
factor in the premium set for 2022. It says the claims made had less of an impact on the 
increase in premium than Miss Vs postcode and age of her pet. The information I have seen 
supports this. 
Miss Vs premium increased significantly but I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest Great Lakes treated her differently from how it would have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position. So I cant say it acted unfairly when pricing the policy. 
Miss V says she was deliberately deceived at the initial sale of the policy in 2021, as she 
was told her premiums would not be affected by any claims she made. 
Great Lakes didnt sell the policy to Miss V but it did provide the documentation that was 
provided to her when it was sold. The position when this policy was sold to her in 2021 was 
that claims made would not directly affect the price of the policy for individual policyholders. I 
do not therefore think Miss V was mis-led or mis-informed in September 2021, as the 
information given to Miss V was correct at that time. 
Great Lakes was also entitled to change the way it calculates its premiums. This is a 
commercial decision that we have no power to interfere with. However, what I think Great Lakes did wrong was not inform Miss V in advance when it 
made the decision to take an individual claims into account and it did not make it clear this 
was a change it was making in the renewal information.  Great Lakes did mention in the 
renewal documents that it was taking account of claims made but not that this was a change 
from how it did it before. I have to therefore consider the impact, if any, these matters had on 
Miss V. I will address this below. 
Existing customer v new customer 
Miss V also says she was told that existing customers would not be charged more than new 
customers. I have seen that the new customer quote Miss V got from Great Lakes, says it 
provides cover for illnesses or conditions that ended more than two years previously and that 
cover could be quoted to include pre-existing conditions. When asked if she wanted to enter 
details of any pre-existing issues, Miss V marked no. 
However, Miss V also told us that her pet was on a prescription food which means it as an 
ongoing condition. And she provided evidence from another insurer that it would have 
imposed restrictions on a policy for her pet based on its claims history. One restriction would 
have been reviewable after 2 years and the other two matters reviewable after three months.  
Great Lakes told us it sets the same premium for new and existing customers. It said it did 
not consider Miss Vs pet had any ongoing pre-existing conditions and therefore shed be 
free to insure elsewhere if she did not want to renew her policy. 
However, it also said that if she came to it as a new customer and declared her pets claims 
history it would have charged her £108.45pm for a lower cover limit of £1,500 (as opposed to 
£115.20pm for £15,000 of cover). And the quote Miss V obtained as a new customer with a 
pet with no health issues in the previous two years cannot be compared with her quote as an 
existing customer with a claims history. 
While Miss V did not have to declare pre-existing conditions when getting her quote, if she 
had not done so the policy would exclude claims for anything for which the policyholder had 
sought treatment, medication or advice for in the previous 24 months. So the cover would 
have been restricted for Miss V as a new customer. The cover she would have had would 
not therefore be entirely like-for-like with her existing policy. 
I am therefore satisfied that Miss V was not treated unfairly as a result of being an existing 
customer.
Compensation
As I think Great Lakes should have given Miss V information about the change in the way it 
intended to set the premiums for her policy sooner than it did, I need to consider the impact 
this has had on her, if any; and if it did have an impact whether any compensation is 
warranted. 
Miss V says she will have difficulty getting alternative cover as her pet has special food and 
other matters are recorded on the vets notes and this is unfair. However, as stated insurers 
are entitled to set their own prices and pricing criteria and it is not unfair or unreasonable that 
they increase those to reflect the risk they are taking on. I understand that Miss V might now 
be in a difficult position but that is not as a result of anything Great Lakes has done wrong. 
It is difficult to know exactly what Miss V would have done, if she had known about this 
change sooner. I recognise that she was prevented from making an informed decision about 
some of the low value claims she made in the policy year. Overall however, I think her position would have been the same. I say this because Great Lakes was entitled to make the 
change and, because it applied one of the lowest rating for claims made, the renewal 
premium would still likely have been set at the amount it was (or very close to it) as the main 
cause of the increase in premium were other risk factors.  
However, I do understand that the change to the way it calculated the premium came as 
something of a shock to Miss V, and if Great Lakes had given her more information sooner 
(perhaps when it changed its policy about his) about the likely effect of claims on premiums, 
then she wouldn't have been so surprised by the increase. And, as mentioned above, 
because she wasnt told sooner she was prevented from making an informed decision about 
the claims she made. 
So I agree with the Investigator that some compensation is appropriate to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience this caused. Great Lakes says the compensation the Investigator 
recommended is higher than it would expect but I have to consider the impact on Miss V. 
Having considered everything, and for the reasons given above, I agree with the Investigator 
that the sum of £400 is appropriate. 
Miss V says this amount is not sufficient to act as a deterrent to Great Lakes, or other 
insurers, but it is not a penalty. We do not regulate insurers and therefore cannot make 
punitive awards. It is an award of compensation to reflect the fact that Miss V was not 
expecting an increase in her premiums as a result of claims shed made. It is not intended to 
compensate for the future cost of insuring her pet, or for opting to no longer insure her and 
cover the cost of any treatment himself. 
Having considered everything, I am of the opinion that £400 is reasonable to reflect the fact 
Miss V was not aware the claims she made in the policy year 2021 to 2022 would be 
considered when the 2022 renewal premium was set and therefore also didnt expect the 
premium would go up as much as it did. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and require it to pay Miss V the 
sum of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman