DRN-1681108
The complaint
Miss B complains that she was unaware that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) had 
made her a joint account holder to her mothers bank account with an overdraft facility in 
place.
What happened
Miss B says following her mothers death in 2019 she visited her local NatWest branch and 
handed in a death certificate to arrange for the bank account to be closed . NatWest then 
informed Miss B, she was responsible for the outstanding debt on the bank account as she 
is a joint party to the bank account. Miss B says that she never thought she was a joint bank 
account holder merely a third party to the account and in any event her mother had 
requested her name removed from the bank account three years earlier. 
Miss B says she wasnt aware of any overdraft facility on the bank account and is unable to 
pay back the borrowing. Miss B says that she has health and financial  problems and this 
matter is causing her a great deal of stress and wants NatWest to write the debt off. 
NatWest says they have no knowledge of any records to show Miss B requested her name 
to be removed from the joint bank account with her late mother. NatWest says Miss B 
completed the documentation to be added to the bank account in her late mothers name 
and has been sent bank statements to the address she lived since she was added to the 
bank account and would have been aware of the overdraft. 
Miss B wasnt happy with NatWest response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that Miss B would have been aware the bank account was in joint names 
and the level of overdraft seen on the bank account, given bank statements were addressed 
to both parties and sent to the address where she lives. The investigator also said the terms 
and conditions of the bank account also state that either party are liable for the debt. 
Miss B wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand that it would have been an extremely difficult time for Miss B following the 
passing of her mother, only to find that she was liable for the remaining debt on the bank 
account she believed she was no longer party to. I was also sorry to hear of Miss Bs health 
issues brought on in part by these problems.
My role here is to look at the information brought to me and consider if NatWest acted fairly 
when they made Miss B liable for the debt outstanding on the bank account held in the joint 
names with Miss Bs late mother. Also to consider, if NatWest should have removed Miss B 
from the joint bank account in 2016 when Miss B says she requested this.
What happened here is in October 2013 Miss B had her name added to her late mothers 
bank account and documentation has been provided to this service to evidence this. Miss B 
suggests that she was added to the account to help her mother with her finances at the time, 
although she was unaware of any overdraft on the account. Importantly in June 2016 Miss B 
says NatWest were provided with an authority requesting she be removed from the joint 
bank account. 
I have considered these two key points raised by Miss B as they are central to her complaint. 
I have been provided with the documentation signed by Miss B in 2013 which added her to 
her late mothers bank account. While Miss B says she wasnt aware of her liability, the 
forms she completed named Add a new party to an Account does refer to the terms and 
conditions of the bank account in the opening paragraph and I understand that a copy of this 
would have been provided at the time her name was added to the bank account, making this 
a joint account with her late mother. This form also states that if a further copy is required 
then it should be asked for. The investigator referred to Miss B, an extract of terms and 
conditions which include the wording You are all responsible to pay back any overdraft on 
your account. This means that we can ask all or just one of you to repay the full amount of 
any money you owe us and not just a share. This applies even if you are unaware that an 
overdraft has been used on your account. It would be Miss Bs responsibility to ensure she 
fully understood the terms and conditions of the bank account at that time.
What is also important to mention here is bank statements were sent and addressed to both 
Miss B and her late mother to the address where they both lived. I am satisfied that on 
balance, if Miss B was being added to the account to assist her mother then its reasonable 
to assume Miss B would have had access to those bank statements. These statements 
show the bank account did make use of an overdraft facility and if Miss B had any issues 
with that, she had the opportunity, over a number of years, to have contacted NatWest about 
this. I am therefore satisfied, on balance , that it is reasonable to assume Miss B would have 
been aware of the way in which the bank account operated. 
Miss Bs other main point is she gave an authority to NatWest to remove her name from the 
joint bank account and provided this service with a hand-written copy of the note she wrote 
in June 2016. I have seen a copy of this note which is addressed,  to whom it may concern 
and doesnt appear to have been signed by Miss B. This note seems to give Miss B s late 
mother, permission to remove her name from the account. NatWest says they have no 
record of receiving the note from either Miss B or her late mother and make the point, even if 
they had received it, it wouldnt have been accepted and they would have needed to contact 
both parties for this to have been actioned. It isnt possible to know what happened to the 
original note Miss B says she asked her late mother to provide NatWest, although it would 
have seemed unlikely that NatWest wouldnt have contacted Miss B in some way to confirm 
this. Its also reasonable to assume, Miss B  would have wanted to have some form of 
confirmation her name had been removed from the bank account given she had asked for 
this to have been actioned. Its also worth mentioning bank statements addressed to both 
Miss B and  her late mother continued to be sent for some considerable length of time after 
this request was made. 
On balance, I am satisfied that Miss B should take responsibility here for making sure her 
name was removed from the joint bank account and would have seen that it hadnt from the 
numerous bank statements addressed to her over the years following the authority she says was given to NatWest. 
While Miss B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NatWest 
here. I strongly suggest that Miss B now contacts NatWest to discuss a pragmatic and 
realistic payment plan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman