DRN-3752205
The complaint
Mr P and Ms R are unhappy with the way in which Astrenska Insurance Limited has handled
a claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr P and Ms R booked a trip abroad to a country Ill refer to as D for them
and their children. They were due to depart the UK on 19 July 2020, and return at the end of
July 2020. The booked their outbound and inbound flights with different airlines  and a hotel
to stay in for four nights of their trip via an online hotel booking provider (the booking
provider).
Mr P and Ms R also took out an annual multi-trip silver travel insurance policy for them and
their children, covering the period 27 February 2020 to 26 February 2021 (the policy).
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but
essential international travel due the global impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Towards the end of April 2020, the airline with whom Mr P and Ms R had booked their
outbound flights with cancelled those flights.
In mid-May 2020, Mr P and Ms R contacted the booking provider regarding their hotel
booking for July 2020, requesting a refund. They were reminded that their booking was non-
refundable - and couldnt be cancelled or changed to another date. At that time, they didnt
insist on a cancellation notice being issued.
Towards the end of June 2020, Mr P and Ms R contacted Astrenska, enquiring about making
a claim on the policy for the cost of the hotel accommodation and the inbound flights  which
had yet to be cancelled by Mr P and Ms R or the airline. At that stage the FCO was still
advising against all but essential international travel due to Covid-19  including to D.
On around 6 July 2020, the UK government announced that with effect from 10 July 2020
travel to and from certain countries was permitted without having to self-isolate on arrival to
the UK. These were known as travel corridors. A travel corridor was put in place between
the UK and D with effect of 10 July 2020.
Prior to the travel corridor being put in place, on 8 July 2020, the airline cancelled the
inbound flight that Mr P, Ms R and their children were booked on. They received a refund
directly from the airline.
Mr R and Ms P subsequently received a refund for their cancelled outbound flight  many
months after theyd received notification that this flight had been cancelled. They also ended
up receiving a cancellation notice from the booking provider later in July 2020.
Astrenska declined the claim for the pre-paid costs of the hotel because they said at the time
the hotel booking was cancelled a travel corridor was in place between the UK and D. So
they said there wasnt any government directive prohibiting travel to D and there was no
insured event under the policy.
However, rather than requesting certain documents in early July 2020, Astrenska says it
shouldve told Mr P and Ms R that any claim wouldnt be covered because a travel corridor
was then in place between D and the UK. Astrenska accepted that its service fell short of
the standards it expected. It apologised and offered Mr P and Ms R £75 compensation for
distress and inconvenience.
Unhappy, Mr P and Ms R complained to our service. Our investigator upheld their complaint
and recommended Astrenska accept the claim for the cost of the booked accommodation
subject to the remaining terms of the policy. And pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per
annum from the date the claim was made to the settlement date.
Astrenska didnt accept our investigators view and raised several points in reply. So, this
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in September 2022, explaining why I also intended to 
uphold the complaint. But I said I intended to direct Astrenska to re-assess the claim made 
by Mr P and Ms R as well as pay them £75 compensation it had agreed to pay them (if 
payment hadnt already been made). An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:

Astrenska has an obligation to consider claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline an insurance claim.
In this particular case, Im currently satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Astenska to treat
the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy and Im intending to uphold
Mr P and Ms Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Cancellation claim
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the cancellation section of the policy (starting on
page 7 of the policy document) says that certain costs will be covered if a trip is cancelled
before departure from the UK, provided that cancellation is necessary and unavoidable due
to certain insured events including:
A government directive prohibiting all travel to the country or area you were
planning to visit, as a result of natural disaster (e.g. earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane
or epidemic)
Im satisfied that Covid-19 amounts to an epidemic.
Towards the end of June 2020, when Mr P and Ms R contacted Astrenska to enquire about
whether a claim would be covered if they cancelled their hotel accommodation and outbound
flight, the FCO was advising against all but essential international travel due to Covid-19 
including to D. There hadnt been any official announcement about travel corridors  or
whether a travel corridor would be in place between D and the UK.
By the time Astrenska provided a substantive reply, the travel corridor had been announced
and the inbound flight had also been cancelled. And as such, Mr P and Ms R had no means
to travel to and from D, so that they could stay in the booked accommodation.
Mr P and Ms R say they were actively looking to book a flight to D but there were no flights
available and airlines werent accepting bookings at that time.Ive thought about whether this illustrates that Mr P and Ms R hadnt intended to cancel their
holiday. However, I accept what Mr P and Ms R says about feeling they were in a catch 22
situation in June 2020. They had already tried to cancel their accommodation in May 2020 to
obtain a refund but were told by the booking provider that the terms of the booking didnt
permit this. They sought written assurances from Astrenska in June 2020 that if they
cancelled the accommodation and inbound flight, a claim would be covered. But they didnt
receive a substantive reply before the travel corridor to D was introduced.
By that time, there werent any restrictions on them travelling to D to make use of the
accommodation theyd booked. However, their inbound and outbound flights had been
cancelled by the respective airlines. I accept that Mr P and Ms R then tried to mitigate their
losses by searching for alternative flights. Given what I know about the airline industry at the
time, I accept what they say about no flights being available to cover the period they wished
to travel to make use of the hotel booking. International travel was still heavily impacted by
the Covid-19 pandemic during the relevant time and I find their testimony on that point to be
credible and persuasive.
I also accept that the hotel booking was actually cancelled by Mr P and Ms R later in July
2020. And at that time there was a travel corridor in place between D and the UK. So, there
wasnt a government directive prohibiting travel to D as a result of a natural disaster.
However, Im satisfied that as of June 2020, when Mr P and Ms R first wrote to Astrenska,
they wanted to cancel their trip and were trying to ensure that they acted as reasonably as
possible taking into account the unprecedented circumstances. I think its fair and
reasonable that they sought written assurance from Astrenska that the claim would be
covered before doing so in the circumstances they found themselves in.
Had they received a substantive reply from Astrenska more promptly  or had insisted that
the hotel booking provider issued them with a cancellation notice in June 2020 after their
initial request for a refund in May 2020  the hotel accommodation wouldve been cancelled
for an insured event. Thats because, at that particular time, the FCO advice (which Im
satisfied is equivalent to a government directive) was still to avoid all but essential travel to D
due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
So, I dont accept what Astrenska has said in response to our investigators view; that the
policy wouldnt have covered the accommodation costs if theyd cancelled in June 2020 as
the situation was changing regularly. By that stage, the FCO had been consistently advising
against all but essential travel since 17 March 2020.
I also dont agree that Mr P and Ms R didnt have a qualifying trip booked as of June 2020
because their outbound flight had been cancelled in April 2020. I dont think it would be fair
and reasonable for the cancellation claim to be declined in this particular case on the basis
that the outbound flight was cancelled earlier than inbound flight. The totality of the trip was
due to depart from the UK - Mr P and Ms Rs country of residence under the policy. And both
flights were cancelled before the original intended departure date from the UK.
Exclusions under the cancellation section of the policy
Further, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Astrenska to rely on the following
exclusions set out in the cancellation section:
You are not covered
 If you decide you no longer want to travelfor any claims arising due to prohibitive regulations by the government of any 
country other than is specified under the cancellation you are covered (section)
The cancellation section of the policy expressly includes cover for cancellation due to a
government directive prohibiting all travel to the country or area you were planning to visit,
as a result of natural disaster  including an epidemic.
And having considered all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that the accommodation
was cancelled because Mr P and Ms R no longer wanted to travel. Im satisfied that the main
reason which led them to contact Astrenska in June 2020, indicating their intention to cancel
the accommodation, was the FCO advice in place at the time, advising against all but
essential international travel due to Covid-19. Im satisfied that the reason which led them to
request a cancellation notice from the booking provider later in July 2020 was mainly due to
the delays caused by Astrenska not answering Mr P and Ms Rs queries from June 2020.
..
I invited both parties to provide any further information. 
Astrenska said it had nothing further to add. Mr P and Ms R observed that there was no 
mention of Astrenska being asked to pay interest on the claimed amount due because of the 
time that had lapsed since the claim shouldve originally been dealt with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties havent provided any further information or comments in relation to the 
reasons why I was intending to uphold this complaint, I dont see any reasons to depart from 
my provisional findings set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set out 
above and forms part of my final decision). So, I uphold Mr P and Ms Rs complaint.
Because Im directing Astrenska to reassess Mr P and Ms Rs claim  rather than pay it  I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint to direct 
Astrenska to pay interest on any payment that is made, if once reassessed.
Putting things right
I direct Astrenska to treat Mr P and Ms Rs claim as covered under the cancellation
section of the policy. Astrenska should then assess the claim under the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy  including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and
any applicable excess.
I also direct Astrenska to pay Mr P and Ms R £75 compensation (if this hasnt been
paid already). I think this sum fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Astrenska
caused Mr P and Ms R as a result of its customer service falling below its accepted
standard.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman