DRN-3512642
The complaint
Miss W complains that Birchwood Investment Management Limited (BIML) havent correctly 
compensated her for a loss she suffered due to their delay in selling some of her holdings.
What happened
Miss W held a discretionary portfolio with BIML. In late 2019, she made enquiries about 
selling part of her portfolio to raise £300,000 for a property purchase. On 4 February 2020, 
BIML wrote to her and explained which of her holdings they proposed to sell to raise the 
funds. Miss W accepted their proposal on 7 February and instructed them to proceed. 
Due to an oversight, BIML didnt act on her instruction and failed to sell the holdings theyd 
proposed. The sale wasnt actioned until 4 March 2020 and in the intervening period the 
market had suffered a significant fall. As a result, BIML changed their mind about which 
holdings would be right to sell but Miss Ws portfolio was still worth less than what it would 
have been if they had actioned the sale.
BIML wrote to Miss W on 4 March, accepted theyd made an error and proposed to offer her 
compensation which they estimated to be £18,975. They then wrote to Miss W on 22 July 
and explained that theyd calculated her loss by comparing the values of what her remaining 
portfolio would have been if the sale had been actioned in February versus the value of her 
portfolio when the sale was actually made. They calculated the difference using the prices 
on 9 June and once theyd also factored in the difference in tax liability and an amount theyd 
already paid Miss W, the difference came to £8,854.
Miss W then complained to BIML as she thought the compensation didnt reflect her true 
loss. BIML didnt uphold her complaint as they thought their method of calculation was 
correct. Miss W then brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of 
our investigators. The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. However, BIML 
didnt agree with his proposed redress methodology and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 May where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BIML have accepted they made an error in delaying the sale of Miss Ws portfolio in 
February 2020. So, I need to consider what position Miss W would have been in if they 
hadnt made an error. Having considered everything, I dont think the redress methodology 
suggested by the investigator is correct. I dont think there is a way to easily calculate what 
the portfolio would have looked like if the error hadnt been made. Ive therefore considered 
how to put Miss W in as close a position as possible to where she would have been if the 
error hadnt been made.
I appreciate that Miss W thinks the loss should be calculated by the difference in what the 
value of her portfolio would have been in February 2020 if the error hadnt happened versus 
what the actual value was following the sale of the holdings in March 2020. However, I dont 
think this is accurate as it doesnt take into account any potential reduction in value between 
February and March 2020.
I think the fairest way to calculate redress is using a similar method to what BIML have 
proposed. However, the date for comparison should be when the actual sale was completed 
in March 2020 and not June 2020. We can then compare what Miss Ws portfolio should 
have been worth at the time versus what it was actually worth due to the error that was 
made. Deductions should then be made for the CGT savings and any amounts BIML have 
already paid her.
I note what BIML have said regarding how they continued to act in Miss Ws best interests to 
ensure her portfolio retained the maximum valuation throughout the period between the error 
having occurred and the date when compensation was paid. However, Im not persuaded 
that this means we should use the June values for calculating the redress. I consider that the 
fairest way to calculate redress is to use the point closest to when the error occurred which 
is why Im proposing to use the date when the actual trades were made. 
Putting things right
BIML should calculate redress of A and compensate Miss W as follows if it shows there is a 
loss: 
A = B  C  D  E 
B = The value of what should have been in Miss Ws remaining portfolio on 4 March 2020 if 
processed as originally recommended
C = The value of Miss Ws remaining portfolio on 4 March 2020 as actually processed
D = The CGT that Miss W saved due to the revised sale 
E = Any amounts already paid to Miss W 
They should also pay interest of 8% simple per year on any loss from 4 March 2020 to the 
date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
BIML agreed with my findings and didnt have anything further to add.
Miss W responded and queried the use of the word remaining in the redress calculation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from my provisional findings. For clarity, Id 
like to explain that the purpose of the redress calculation is to compare the value of what 
Miss Ws portfolio was worth on 4 March 2020 against what it should have been worth if 
Miss Ws email of 7 February had been correctly actioned. To avoid any confusion, Ive 
removed the word remaining from the calculation. Putting things right
BIML should calculate redress of A and compensate Miss W as follows if it shows there is a 
loss: 
A = B  C  D  E 
B = The value of what should have been in Miss Ws portfolio on 4 March 2020 if processed 
as originally recommended
C = The value of Miss Ws portfolio on 4 March 2020 as actually processed
D = The CGT that Miss W saved due to the revised sale 
E = Any amounts already paid to Miss W 
They should also pay interest of 8% simple per year on any loss from 4 March 2020 to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive given. Birchwood Investment Management 
Limited should calculate and pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman