DRN-3004705
The complaint
Mr R, represented by his mother, Mrs R, has complained about his previous motor insurer, 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited, in respect of a policy cancellation which occurred in 
2019 and its insistence, in 2020, on recording this on an industry database.
What happened
Mr Rs policy was cancelled in 2019. He complained to Advantage and it issued a final 
response letter in May 2019. This confirmed its view that it had acted fairly and reasonably in 
cancelling the policy. In late 2020, and in light of the outcome of a court case taken by the 
police against Mr R (because, after the cancellation, he had driven whilst uninsured), Mrs R 
asked Advantage to review the situation. She said that declaring the cancellation was having 
a massive effect on Mr R, particularly in respect of the cost he was incurring for cover 
because he has to declare the cancellation. 
In January 2021, Advantage said that Mr R had to answer questions asked by future 
insurers, about previous cancellations, correctly. Although it later confirmed to this service 
that it hasnt recorded the cancellation externally  so, unless Mr R declares it, future 
insurers wont know about it, even if they search the industry databases for Mr Rs history.
When Mrs R brought the complaint to us, she said she was still concerned that Mr R had 
been treated unfairly when the policy was cancelled in 2019. That Mr R having to declare the 
policy cancellation was unfair too, particularly given the court action taken by the police had 
found in Mr Rs favour. Our investigator noted the final response issued by Advantage in 
May 2019 and one of my ombudsman colleagues reviewed the complaint to determine what 
aspects of it, if any, we could consider. My colleague concluded that anything to do with 
Advantages 2019 decision to cancel the policy, we couldnt consider. But she felt we; 
can consider Mr Rs complaint that Advantage Insurance Company Limited wont review its 
decision to record him on an insurer-wide database as having had insurance cancelled.
Another investigator then considered the merits of this particular complaint. She didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mrs R, on behalf of Mr R, asked for an ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this situation has caused Mr R and Mrs R a lot of upset. And I know they 
still feel aggrieved by the cancellation itself. But as my ombudsman colleague has 
determined that this service cant consider that, I cant comment on what went on, or the 
fairness, or otherwise of it. All I can do is consider the part of the complaint we, as a service, 
as explained by my fellow ombudsmans decision, have determined is within our jurisdiction. 
Insurers are obliged to keep accurate records of what has happened in respect of a 
policyholder  that is in respect of all aspects that may be of interest to other insurers when 
deciding whether or not to agree cover. Some details are then uploaded on to external 
industry databases, so all insurers can check relevant information if and when they want to. 
So there was nothing wrong in Advantage recording Mr Rs policy cancellation  although 
I note Advantage has confirmed it didnt actually record it externally.
I see that Advantage told Mr R he should declare the cancellation to future insurers. I cant 
advise Mr R what he should do, but I can understand Advantage giving Mr R this advice. 
Thats because, in general terms, it is a basic principle of insurance that a policyholder has 
to take reasonable care to answer an insurers questions accurately and to the best of their 
knowledge when arranging new cover and at renewal of policies. If incorrect answers are 
given to clear questions asked, or inaccurate agreements are given to statements the insurer 
has set out, and the insurer finds out about this, it may have cause to avoid or cancel a 
policy and refuse to pay any claim. 
I appreciate that this situation is stressful for Mr R, and that it is causing him to incur 
increased premiums. However, given Mr Rs policy was cancelled (the fairness and 
reasonableness of which I cant get into), I cant reasonably say Advantage acted unfairly 
when it wouldnt agree to amend or remove its record of the cancellation. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman