DRN-3031206
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1992. Mr 
and Mrs C say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
The PPI was sold alongside a further advance to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage. The original 
mortgage was taken out in 1988. Although the further advance was a joint loan, the PPI was 
set up to cover Mr C only  not Mrs C
Other than that, the background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which 
includes Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated 
all of that information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint.  
Bradford & Bingley subsequently offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because it 
didnt disclosure the high level of commission and profit share Mr and Mrs C paid as part of 
their premiums. This offer was made to Mr and Mrs C after Bradford & Bingley said the 
commission and profit share it received was less than 50%. It appears to have later 
accepted that at least some of the commission and profit share it received was more than 
50%. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion about the alleged 
mis-sale. They didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. I havent seen a response from the 
representative in respect of the commission offer. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Bradford & Bingley should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that Bradford & Bingleys offer to refund some of 
the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold during a face to face meeting. I cant know what was 
said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive 
looked at the documentary evidence thats available from the time. And Ive also thought 
about what Mr and Mrs C recall about it. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Bradford & Bingley made it clear PPI was optional 
and that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I appreciate Mr and Mrs  
C say that they were pressured into taking the cover out. But what theyve described as 
pressure is that they were told the PPI was the best way to cover them if they couldnt make 
the repayments. I dont think I can reasonably argue that amounts to pressure. 
Looking at the application form, I can see Mr and Mrs C answered yes to the question as to 
whether they wanted PPI. It looks to me as though the application has been completed with 
some care to the extent that Mr and Mrs C completed a much smaller box opting out of 
marketing materials. So Im satisfied they would have seen the PPI section and it seems to 
me most likely theyd have known just to leave the PPI section blank if they didnt want the 
cover.   
I havent treated this as an advised sale. Thats because I havent seen anything to suggest 
Bradford & Bingley recommended this particular policy after taking account of Mr and Mrs 
Cs personal circumstances. So, that means Bradford & Bingley didnt have to check the 
cover was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs. But it did have to give them enough 
information about the cover so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for 
them. 
I accept its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs C wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I dont think theyd have acted differently even if Bradford & 
Bingley had told them everything it should have done. I can see that if theyd made a claim 
on the policy, Mr and Mrs Cs repayments would have been covered for up to 24 months for 
each claim if Mr C was made redundant or if he was off sick from work. 
Its not entirely clear to me what Mr Cs sick pay entitlement was at the relevant time. In the 
PPI questionnaire, Mr and Mrs C said they would have both received more than 12 months 
full sick pay. That is a package significantly more generous than I would expect. In the 
original mortgage application form from 1988, Mr Cs sick pay was said to be six months full 
pay and six months half pay. In any event, as the PPI would have covered Mr C for up to 24 
months, I think this is likely to have been substantially longer than his full sick pay would 
have lasted. Similarly, he had been in his job for five years, so I think it would have lasted for 
longer than his redundancy entitlement at that time. I appreciate Mr C would have been entitled to a death in service benefit. But that would have 
only paid out in the unfortunate event of his death. He wouldnt have been able to claim this 
benefit if he was off sick or if he lost his job. 
I understand Mr C was in good health when the policy was sold. So I dont think any of the 
exclusions around medical conditions would have affected Mr and Mrs Cs decision to take 
the PPI out. Those representing Mr and Mrs C made detailed submissions about what they 
considered to be exclusions around back and mental health conditions. But having 
considered the policy document at length, Im satisfied there were no such exclusions in this 
policy. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mr Cs employment or occupation that would have 
made it more difficult to make a successful claim. And I note that a successful claim was 
actually made in or around 2008. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs C, 
nor was it too dissimilar to what I think they reasonably thought they were buying. With all of 
these things in mind, I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have acted differently if Bradford & 
Bingley had given them more or better information about the cover. I think theyd have taken 
the PPI out in any event. 
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Bradford & Bingley should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Bradford & Bingley doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs C.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Bradford & Bingley should have disclosed the commission it 
received and that Bradford & Bingleys offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate 
for the unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Bradford & Bingley didnt tell Mr and Mrs C about the high levels of commission and profit 
share they paid in this case. So I have taken into account:
 the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Bradford & Bingley and Mr and Mrs C was unfair under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act because Bradford & Bingley didnt tell them about the high 
levels of commission and profit share in this case.
Having done so, I dont think Bradford & Bingley acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs C because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what, in all the circumstances, amounts to fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr and Mrs C should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Bradford & Bingley failed to tell Mr and Mrs C about the high commission 
and profit-share rates paid; the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
It is argued that these things meant the policy was poor value. It is further argued that I 
should find that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the 
level of commission. The representative submitted Mr and Mrs C should receive a refund of 
all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI have taken into account the relevant law, and the FCAs rules and guidance. At this stage, 
my role as an ombudsman is to determine what would amount to fair compensation in order 
to remedy the unfairness caused by Bradford & Bingley failing to disclose the high level of 
commission before the policy was sold.
So, in considering: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission;
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness;
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy wouldnt have 
been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the reasons Ive 
given above. I think it was fair for Bradford & Bingley to calculate compensation in line with 
the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs C with the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if Bradford & 
Bingley had done everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share 
levels.
So I consider that Bradford & Bingleys offer of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided Bradford & 
Bingley Plc should pay Mr and Mrs C an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman