DRN-1851421
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wouldnt arrange for her to be repatriated 
back to the UK after she became unwell while she was on holiday.
What happened
In late October 2019, Mrs D became unwell whilst on holiday abroad. She called Avivas 
medical assistance team and she sought medical advice. Around a week later, she got back 
in touch with Aviva to let it know that her treating doctor wanted to carry out a colonoscopy, 
but she didnt want to get the test done abroad.
A couple of weeks later, Mrs D got back in touch to say shed sought medical treatment at an 
alternative facility. She let Aviva know she might need to curtail her trip. Aviva told Mrs D itd 
need to get in touch with her GP and check her medical records before it could confirm 
cover. It also told her it was medically necessary for her to undergo a colonoscopy before it 
could arrange repatriation.
Aviva told Mrs D it could help her to arrange a colonoscopy. It agreed to pay for return taxi 
transport to the hospital, for a consultation and for the colonoscopy testing. Mrs D couldnt 
attend the original booked appointment and asked for an appointment a few days later. Mrs 
D attended the consultation and it was suggested by the treating doctor that she needed to 
see a neurologist, after suffering from falls and dizziness and she needed a colonoscopy to 
investigate the cause of her original symptoms. Mrs D refused to have the colonoscopy 
though, as she wanted it done in the UK. She wished to curtail her trip as soon as she could.
The assistance team requested Mrs Ds medical records from her GP. It also needed to 
establish her haemoglobin levels and check whether she was fit to fly  it required a medical 
certificate confirming this. So Aviva arranged for Mrs D to see a doctor. He wouldnt confirm 
she was fit to fly though, as he said she needed the colonoscopy and to see a neurologist. 
Mrs D confirmed she wanted these appointments to happen in the UK.
Aviva told Mrs D that it could arrange for her to see a neurologist in another city, but 
because it hadnt got her GP report back, it couldnt confirm cover. So it let Mrs D know 
shed need to pay for the appointment upfront and claim the costs back.  It also still needed 
to be satisfied her blood levels were ok. It couldnt arrange repatriation until it was satisfied 
Mrs D was fit to fly.
Mrs D travelled back to the UK on her planned flight on 23 December 2019. She was 
unhappy with the way her claim had been handled and she felt shed been offered limited 
assistance. She made a claim about the service shed received.  Aviva later received the GP 
records and was in a position to confirm the claim was covered. 
Aviva looked into Mrs Ds complaint. It said it needed to make sure she was fit to fly before it 
could make any repatriation arrangements. It felt its team had been proactive and had tried 
to help Mrs D organise appointments. And itd gone over and above to help Mrs D by 
agreeing to cover some costs before itd confirmed the claim would be covered. Mrs D 
remained unhappy with Avivas handling of her situation and asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. He felt Aviva was entitled 
to ask for medical evidence from Mrs Ds GP to confirm her claim would be covered. He said 
Aviva had a duty of care to Mrs D, so it needed to be satisfied she was fit to fly before it 
could arrange for her to be repatriated. He also thought Aviva had taken reasonable steps to 
help Mrs D and to keep in touch with her.
Mrs D disagreed. She provided evidence which she said showed the treating doctor hadnt 
said she wasnt fit to fly. She said the night before she flew home, shed spoken to the doctor 
and he said she should undergo treatment in the UK. She was also waiting for some medical 
costs from the alternative hospital shed received treatment from to be reimbursed.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that Im only 
considering how Aviva handled Mrs Ds repatriation claim. Thats because that was the initial 
complaint she made to Aviva and which it considered in its final response to her complaint. If 
Mrs D is unhappy with the settlement of her medical expenses, shell need to make a new 
complaint to Aviva about this issue before we can potentially help with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has treated Mrs D fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs D that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and everything that happened, Ive read and carefully considered everything. I appreciate 
this was a distressing and worrying time for Mrs D and I do sympathise with the position she 
was in.
But in making my decision, I need to consider whether Aviva handled the claim in line with 
the regulators rules and whether it treated Mrs D fairly and reasonably. The relevant rules 
say that an insurer must deal with claims promptly and fairly  and it cant turn down claims 
unreasonably.
I appreciate Mrs Ds unhappy that Aviva requested her medical records from her GP. As the 
investigator explained, the terms of Mrs Ds policy say that Aviva may need access to a 
policyholders medical records to assess whether a claim is covered and the most 
appropriate form of treatment. It also isnt unusual for an insurer to require medical evidence 
from a policyholders GP before it agrees to cover a claim. 
So I think Aviva was reasonably entitled to request and see Mrs Ds medical records before 
it confirmed itd cover her claim. I also dont think Aviva was responsible for the delays in 
confirming cover. Thats because I can see that the surgery told Aviva it could take 28 days 
to provide the report. It was proactive in chasing up the report and it wasnt in a position to 
confirm cover until the report was received. 
There was a delay of a few days between Mrs D consenting to the records being accessed 
and Aviva sending this consent onto the GP. But I dont think this led to any avoidable 
delays. Thats because given the time it took for the records to come back (which was 
several days after Mrs D had already flown home), even if they had been requested on the 
day consent was received; its most likely they wouldnt have been sent back until after Mrs 
D had travelled.Ive then thought about whether Aviva provided Mrs D with limited assistance when she 
hoped to be repatriated. I understand Mrs D doesnt feel Aviva did enough to help her. But I 
disagree. Ive carefully considered Avivas notes of all of its contact and attempted contact 
with Mrs D. I can see it tried to keep in regular contact with Mrs D  checking how she was 
and sending emails when it couldnt reach her by phone. Some of the communication issues 
were down to the fact that Mrs D was travelling around the country she was in. Shed given 
different numbers of family members to call her on and sometimes, she wasnt with that 
particular person when Aviva called. From what I can see, Aviva was proactive in trying to 
keep in touch with Mrs D.
Its also clear that Aviva tried to ensure Mrs D had the medical testing and treatment she 
needed before it could agree to repatriate her. Given the nature of her symptoms, it needed 
to be satisfied Mrs D was fit to fly and that it was safe for her to do so. The local assistance 
team were told Mrs D needed a colonoscopy, her haemoglobin checked and to see a 
neurologist before a fit to fly certificate could be given. The notes show that Aviva tried to 
arrange these appointments for Mrs D and that it agreed to cover some consultation, taxi 
and test costs regardless of the fact that cover hadnt been confirmed. While I understand 
Mrs D didnt want to undergo these tests abroad, I think Aviva tried hard to assist her and 
went beyond its strict contractual liability to ensure she got the tests and medical advice she 
needed.
I appreciate Mrs D says the treating doctor never told her she wasnt fit to fly. Shes provided 
notes from the doctor which dont refer specifically to her not being fit to fly. However, Aviva 
told Mrs D it needed a certificate saying she was fit to fly before it could arrange for her to be 
repatriated. The doctor Mrs D saw didnt provide this certificate. And because Mrs D didnt 
see a neurologist or have a colonoscopy when Aviva tried to arrange this, there was no 
opportunity for this certificate to be obtained. So I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in these circumstances.
Overall, I think Avivas medical assistance team sought to help Mrs D and took all 
reasonable steps it could to try to do so. I think it was entitled to be satisfied Mrs Ds claim 
was covered and that she was fit to fly before it could arrange repatriation. And I dont think it 
caused any delays in Mrs D being able to return to the UK. So Im not telling it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman