DRN-2821135
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Miss H took out in 2007 on the advice and 
recommendation of a broker who represented Sterling & Law Group Plc (S&L). Miss H is 
unhappy with several aspects of the mortgage, but chiefly that S&L recommended she take 
the mortgage on an interest-only basis and apparently over-stated her income to the lender.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Miss H took the mortgage in 2007; it was for a little over £189,000 (including fees), on 
interest-only, and repayable after 25 years. The complaint is that the interest-only mortgage 
was mis-sold, and applied for on false information. Our investigator didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss H have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If the available evidence is incomplete (not unusual in a case such as this where the sale 
happened so long ago) and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is 
most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases. 
In this decision I have to look at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of regulatory 
requirements and what was regarded as good industry practice at the relevant time) and 
considered generally whether S&L did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In 
doing that, I can give no regard to the regulatory standards as they are today, or to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
The starting point in a complaint of this type is the point-of-sale documentation from 2007. 
The value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what 
was said and agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always 
possible information might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than 
peoples individual recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can 
sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it. Even if anomalies or mistakes are identified, that doesnt 
automatically mean a mis-sale has taken place. We still have to consider whether they might 
or might not have affected the suitability of the advice that was given. 
Miss H says the information is inaccurate; in particular, she says her income was overstated, 
and that the purpose of the mortgage was wrongly stated as debt consolidation when 
actually she was buying out her former joint borrower. Miss H also says a signature 
purporting to be hers on the fact-find has been falsified.
Ive considered all of this very carefully; its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and 
deciding how much weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider 
individual documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion 
on the whole picture.
Ill start with the signature on the fact-find; the relevance of this is that its where Miss Hs 
income was recorded as a sum that she says was inflated. Miss H says she wouldnt have 
positioned her signature in the way it was and believes its been falsified. I cant say one way 
or another if that signature has somehow been manoeuvred into place electronically. What I 
can say is that the fact-find contains two signatures, and Miss H is only disputing one of 
them. On the balance of probabilities, I think it more likely than not that Miss signed the form 
(at least once and possibly twice) so she had the opportunity to check that the information on 
it (which included her income) was accurate.
In any event, the information about Miss Hs income would have been included on the 
application form that was submitted to the lender. Miss H hasnt disputed having signed the 
application form (a copy of which I have seen) and on doing so, she made a declaration that 
all of the information being presented to the lender was accurate. 
As for the purpose of the mortgage, the point of sale documentation shows that Miss H was 
taking the mortgage out to repay the existing joint mortgage and raise extra funds to clear 
some debt. So I dont think theres any misrepresentation there.
On the subject of affordability, the new mortgage created about £33,000 of new debt. The 
rest of the mortgage repaid debt that already existed. Miss H clearly wanted the mortgage 
(arguably she needed it in order to buy out her joint borrower) and must accept a measure of 
responsibility for having taken it. Taking it on interest-only made the monthly cost more 
manageable, but of course, it meant the capital wasnt being repaid.
Miss H has told us that it was never her intention to remain on interest-only for long; S&L 
had told her the lender would be agreeable to changing the mortgage to repayment after two 
years. However, when she approached the lender in 2009 to ask about switching back to 
capital repayment, it refused her.
Thats not something I can consider as part of this complaint, insofar as it happened two 
years later, and involved the lender rather than S&L. Nor can I fairly criticise S&L for not 
predicting in 2007 what the lenders reaction would be when it was approached in 2009. An 
awful lot happened between 2007 and 2009; chiefly the event known as the financial crisis broke. Miss Hs lender was the one at the forefront of the crisis as it unfolded, and the lender 
was undergoing dramatic and enforced changes to every aspect of its business. S&L could 
not possibly know that was going to happen when it recommended the mortgage.
Taking all of the above together, the overall conclusion Ive come to is that the 
recommendation S&L made  to take the mortgage on interest-only initially - wasnt 
unsuitable. Nor am I persuaded the application was made on the basis of false information 
submitted to the lender without Miss Hs knowledge or consent.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman