DRN-4096621
The complaint
Mr B complains about the transfer of John Lewis Financial Services Limiteds (JLP) 
partnership cards to a new provider.
What happened
JLP transferred its cards business to a new card provider (A) in 2022. In June 2022, JLP 
wrote to customers to tell them about the transfer and to say they needed to apply for new 
card in due course. In August 2022, JLP wrote to cardholders inviting them to apply for a 
new card from A. JLP then wrote to all its partnership cards customers to say their existing 
cards would stop working on 31 October 2022.
Mr B complained. He said he expected that the transfer from JLP to A would be seamless, 
but nothing could be further for the truth. He said that A lost his application; and then gave 
him a limit of only £15,000  compared to his old limit of £25,000. He said the service 
provided by A was poor and not as good as JLPs. He said JLP should be made aware of 
what had happened. He closed his account with A.
JLP said the matters that Mr B complained about should be addressed by A.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Mr Bs complaint should, in most  
parts, be addressed to A. It wouldnt be fair to hold JLP responsible for any service issues at 
A. But as far as JLP were concerned, it was a commercial decision for them to change card 
provider - and thats not something that this service can get involved with. So  she said he 
couldnt say that JLP should do anything further.
Mr B asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JLP made a commercial decision to change its card issuing partner to A. And our 
investigator is correct here  thats a commercial decision JLP are entitled to make  and we 
cant challenge that. Nor are we the regulator of JLP (or A)  thats the role of the FCA.
Mr B complains about:
- A losing his card application.
- He says he didnt get the same credit limit from A as he had with JLP.
- Poor service from A.
These are complaints which should reasonably be directed to A  and Ive seen that Mr B 
has done that.
Our role is to see what happened as regards JLP. I can see that they wrote to Mr B three 
times between June 2022 and October 2022  to advise him of the transfer and inviting him 
to apply for a new card from A. A further letter advised him of the closure of his old JLP card. 
Ive reviewed the letters and Im satisfied that these were clear  which is what we wouldve 
expected of JLP.
Ive also seen that there were four other pieces of communication sent to him between May 
2022 and October 2022 about the transfer. So  as far as JLP are concerned, I think its 
reasonable to say that they communicated effectively with Mr B about the transfer. 
I was sorry to see that Mr B was disappointed with the service he got from A  but as Ive 
said, this must be addressed to A for A to deal with.
So, as far as Mr Bs complaint about JLP is concerned, I am not asking them to do anything 
here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman