DRN-1625485
The complaint
Mr C complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited mis-sold him a personal loan 
when he acquired a car.
What happened
In October 2016 Mr C acquired a second-hand car funded by a hire purchase agreement. 
Some three years later Mr C voluntarily terminated his agreement and discovered that in 
addition to the hire purchase finance he had taken out a personal loan. 
At the time of the sale Mr C had said he didnt want to spend more than £300 per month. 
However, he had negative equity on the car he was disposing of and to cover that BMWFS 
sold him a personal loan alongside the hire purchase finance. The two came to juts under 
£300 a month. When Mr C terminated the agreement, he was charged for some damages 
which he complained about to BMWFS, but he since said he doesnt wish to pursue that 
element of his complaint.
BMWFS rejected Mr Cs complaint and so he brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted the 
paperwork for the loan which stated "Is this product suitable for you?" also states that: "This 
loan agreement is to be used to pay off the outstanding balance under your existing 
agreement with us."
He thought this made the arrangement clear and Mr C had signed the document confirming 
he had read and understood the terms and conditions of the agreement. He noted Mr C told 
this service he had been told there would be two agreements but the total would still be 
under £300 a month. 
Mr C had also explained that he is deaf and there was some has advised me that there was 
difficulty in communication with the dealer. Our investigator acknowledged this but 
concluded that he didnt have enough evidence to allow him to conclude that the personal 
loan had been mis-sold.
Mr C didnt agree and said the sales process had been handled badly with a lot of paperwork 
and confusion. He trusted the salesman and had just signed the documents without 
appreciating he had taken out a personal loan. He had been present when a friend had 
bought a car and the process had been much clearer. Overall, he was disappointed at 
BMWFSs attitude. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr C, but I dont consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
It seems that Mr C had set out the criteria for any finance deal he was prepared to accept in 
funding his new car. He didnt want to spend more than £300 per month and I gather he was 
happy to accept a term of four years. 
This is what BMWFS provided him with. He had negative equity on his existing car and his 
finance needed to be paid off. Whichever arrangement he was offered it would need to find 
some form of finance to address this shortfall. BMWFS came up with a personal loan which 
ran concurrently with his hire purchase agreement and met his financial limit of £300 per 
month.
I cannot say what was said at the time of the sale, but the paperwork makes it clear that he 
was taking out a personal loan. I have noted his comments that the process was confusing 
and that is regrettable, but there was some onus on him to clarify what he was signing. It is 
clear he had realised he had taken out two agreements, but not that one was a personal 
loan. It may be that when he voluntarily terminated the agreement he presumed the 
settlement figure covered both agreements and later discovered that wasnt the case.
It would have been better if the deal had been more clearly set out for Mr C, but even if it 
had I am not persuaded that would have caused him to not take out the finance for his new 
car. The arrangement met his criteria and without the loan he would have had to find some 
alternative financing to cover the negative equity on his old car. As I said at the outset, I 
have sympathy with Mr C, but I dont have enough evidence to allow me to uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman