DRN-2433656
The complaint
Mr S has complained that the cost of his home emergency insurance policy with Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva) has increased significantly over recent years.
References to Aviva include its agents and policy administrators.
What happened
Mr S took out a home emergency insurance policy in 2005. This originally covered only his 
water supply pipe.
In a policy renewal letter sent to Mr S on 21 December 2015, Mr S was told that Aviva was 
becoming the insurer of this policy.
 
A decision was subsequently taken that Aviva would no longer issue policies providing only 
a single element of cover eg covering only water supply pipes. In a policy renewal letter sent 
to Mr S on 21 December 2017, he was told that Aviva was no longer offering his current 
cover. Instead, when his policy automatically renewed on 18 January 2018, it was being 
changed to a more comprehensive cover called Plumbing and Drainage Plus. This increased 
his cover to include blocked drains, sinks and toilets, and leaking taps and radiator valves, 
and had an increased claims limit.
The letter told him that his new premium would be £135. It reminded him that his premium 
for the previous year (covering only his water supply pipes) had been £60.12.
The renewal letter also said:
Take a moment to note down your new price, make sure weve got your details right 
and that Plumbing and Drainage Plus is right for you. You have been with us a number 
of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you 
shop around.
Mr S didnt contact Aviva about this increase in cover or the new higher premium. Aviva says 
that indicates that Mr S was happy with the increased cover he was receiving and with the 
increased premium.
In December 2018, Aviva sent a renewal letter advising Mr S that his policy for 2019 would 
be increasing from £135 to £162. However after contacting Aviva he was offered a discount 
of £90, so he only paid £70.
In December 2019 Aviva sent a renewal letter advising Mr S that his premium for 2020 
would be increasing from £70 to £190. Mr S contacted Aviva about this significant increase. 
He was offered a discount either to a premium of £153, or alternatively to a premium of £108 
with a £30 excess.
Mr S wasnt happy with either of these options and complained. Avivas response was that 
its processes are assessed annually and are amended to reflect any changes to business 
costs and increased investments in its service. It said claims history is also considered as 
part of this review. Mr S hadnt made any claims.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Avivas response to his complaint and brought it to this service.
Our investigator contacted Aviva, and Aviva confirmed that Mr S had paid the same renewal 
premiums as other customers on the same policy, claims journey and living in a similar post 
code area. His view was that when Mr Ss policy changed in 2018, and his premium 
increased from £62 to £135, Aviva shouldve done more to ensure that Mr S was offered the 
best price possible given his loyalty. As a discount had been applied to Mr Ss premium in 
2019, his recommendation was that Aviva should retrospectively apply the same discount to 
Mr Ss premium for 2018 and reimburse this sum to Mr S.
Aviva didnt accept our investigators view. It said in response that in 2018 Mr S had received 
a discount on his premium for the new policy compared to what a new customer would pay. 
It also maintained that the option to find an alternative policy and to cancel his existing one 
had been made clear to Mr S. It also said that it offers discounts if its customer gets in touch 
and wants to discuss prices. It reiterated that Mr S didnt have to continue with his insurance 
and had the option of finding the cover he wanted elsewhere.
As Aviva didnt agree with our investigators view, Mr Ss complaint has been referred to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill give my reasons.
From the renewal letter sent to Mr S on 21 December 2017 for the year 2018 I think its 
sufficiently clear that his current cover was being replaced by enhanced cover with a range 
of new benefits.  His new premium of £135 was shown, and it reminded Mr S that his 
premium for the previous year was £62. It also reminded him that he might be able to get the 
insurance cover he wanted at a better price if he shopped around. It doesnt appear that Mr 
S contacted Aviva at that time about either the change to his cover or the increase in 
premium.
Aviva has said that Mr Ss 2018 premium of £135 was a discounted price from the standard 
price to reward his loyalty.
The following year, 2019, Mr Ss renewal letter told him that his premium was increasing 
from £135 to £162. Aviva has said that this premium reflected the standard, no-discounted, 
price.  On this occasion Mr S appears to have contacted Aviva and he was offered a 
discount of £92, so he actually paid £70, a discount of 57%. 
The year after that, 2020, Mr Ss renewal letter told him that his premium was increasing 
from £160 (£70 after discount) to £190, and when he contacted it, he was again offered a 
premium of either £153 or £108 plus a £30 excess. That would represent a potential 
discount of approximately 27%.
Aviva has expressly said that it offers discounts if its customer gets in touch and wants to 
discuss prices. That suggests that if a customer doesnt contact Aviva it wont get the best 
price that Aviva can offer. I dont think thats fair, and it prejudices customers who might 
assume that because theyve remained loyal to their insurer and havent shopped around 
they will automatically be rewarded with preferential rates.As a service we expect businesses to explain the reason behind price increases so we can 
assess whether the customer has been treated fairly compared to other customers with 
similar policies and risk profiles, and to ensure that premium increases are not made simply 
because the customer is unlikely to challenge them.
 
So whilst I accept that because Mr S was receiving enhanced cover from policy year 2018 
and that an increase in premium was therefore justifiable, Im not satisfied that Mr S wouldnt 
have received a better reduction in his premium if hed contacted Aviva in 2018, as he did in 
2019 and 2020. 
Although Aviva says it automatically applied a discount in 2018 so that Mr S paid £135 
instead of its higher standard rate, the fact that that the following year, after hed contacted it, 
Aviva was able to reduce his premium down to £70 suggests to me that there was scope for 
a lower premium to have been applied in 2018 if Mr S had contacted it. 
I dont think its fair that a longstanding customer should be prejudiced by having to pay a 
higher premium simply because they dont question their new premiums. 
My conclusion is that as Mr S didnt renew his insurance with Aviva in 2020, it should make a 
retrospective adjustment to his premium for 2018. I consider that the fairest and most 
transparent way to do this is for Aviva to treat Mr Ss 2018 premium as being £70, that being 
an increase of £8 from his 2017 premium, and the same as his discounted 2019 premium. 
This will result in Aviva refunding £65 to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay him £65.
I also require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay interest on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a 
year from the date Mr S paid his 2018 premium of £135 to the date payment is made to him.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman