DRN-4184060
The complaint
Mr B, through a representative, says AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr B took out a 36-month instalment loan for £3,900 on 6 January 2017. The monthly 
repayments were £118.21 and the total repayable was £6,775.39.
Mr B says AvantCredit ought to have better assessed his creditworthiness to be sure he 
could sustainably repay the loan.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. She said AvantCredits checks showed the loan 
was not affordable for Mr B. Whilst the loan was for debt consolidation the lender took no 
steps to understand which debts would be settled and how this would impact Mr Bs financial 
circumstances.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review. It said its checks 
showed Mr Bs income was higher than declared and based on this and his detailed 
expenses he had £531.82 of disposable income and so could afford the loan. It said 
assuming Mr B consolidated some of his credit card debts, he would then be spending 
around 45% of his income on credit commitments. Mr B was also repaying his two defaulted 
accounts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when AvantCredit lent to Mr B. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged AvantCredit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, AvantCredit was required to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr B could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So AvantCredit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr B, and have considered the following questions:
did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Bs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
AvantCredit asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income and outgoings and his employment and residential status. It checked 
his declared income using data showing Mr Bs current account turnover. It checked his 
credit file to understand his existing credit commitments. It also asked about the purpose
of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined AvantCredit 
concluded Mr B would be able to sustainably repay the loan. 
I think these checks were proportionate but I am not satisfied AvantCredit made a fair 
lending decision based on the information it gathered. 
 
It could see from the credit check that Mr B had £24,297 of active unsecured debt and two 
defaulted accounts with a total unsettled balance of £2,555. Mr Bs credit cards were either 
at or close to their limit and he had opened three new credit accounts in the last three 
months. It also knew from Mr Bs banking data that he had taken out a payday loan just a 
couple of weeks earlier, and had done the same the month before. So I think there were 
indications that Mr Bs finances were under pressure. 
In response to the investigators assessment AvantCredit set out how its checks showed Mr 
B had £531.82 of disposable income and so the loan was affordable. But I think it is focusing 
solely on pounds and pence affordability, without considering the sustainability of the loan 
repayments as it was obliged to. AvantCredit did not ask Mr B which of his existing debts he 
intend to repay, but assuming, for example, he was able to reduce his monthly credit 
commitments by around £200 (he had an outstanding loan with a balance of £3,849 and a 
monthly repayment of £197) he would still be spending around £1,295 on credit each month. 
This is over 45% of his income  and at such a level I think AvantCredit ought to have 
realised there was a high risk Mr B would need to either borrow to repay or suffer some other type of financial harm. There were already signs of financial instability with sequential 
payday loans, credit cards close to their limit and multiple new accounts. 
It follows I think AvantCredit was wrong to lend to Mr B.
I havent found any evidence AvantCredit acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in 
some other way.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the benefit
of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been
given to him. So he has lost out and AvantCredit needs to put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges on the loan  so add up the total Mr B repaid and
deduct the sum from the capital amount.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, 
AvantCredit should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit files in relation to the
Loan once any outstanding capital balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC, must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman