DRN-3425188
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly converted a substantial overseas payment 
into the local currency, even though he had requested that it be made in pounds sterling 
(GBP). 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr R went to his local branch of Lloyds Bank to arrange for the transfer 
of GBP120,000 to an account in Poland. The receiving account was also a sterling account. 
The sum received was however only GBP113,445.13. The payment had been made in the 
local currency (PLN) and then converted back to GBP, resulting in an exchange rate loss. Mr 
R complained that he had not asked for any conversion to be made. 
Lloyds said that it would have asked Mr R to check the details of the transaction before 
completing it, either by showing him the transaction screen or by printing the details for him 
to check. 
Mr R referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She thought that Mr R did have the opportunity to check the payment and that, 
having done so, he confirmed the instructions shown to him. 
Mr R did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no doubt that Mr Rs intention was that GBP120,000 would be paid to the recipients 
account in Poland. I note that he paid the transfer fee  rather than allowing it to be deducted 
from the sum transferred. And I think it most unlikely too that his original instructions were to 
convert the payment to PLN, since the recipient account was held in GBP. I think it more 
likely that he simply asked the bank to transfer GBP120,000. 
I accept however what the bank says its procedures for making overseas (and indeed 
domestic) transfers. That is, I accept that it takes instructions from the customer and then 
asks the customer to check the details before processing the payment. And I think it more 
likely than not that that process was followed in this case.  
Lloyds has provided  in confidence, as it is entitled to do  internal notes of the procedure 
that should be followed for international transfers. It says that staff should clarify the currency 
the payment is to be made in. The default currency is the local currency in the receiving 
destination. If a different currency is to be used, that needs to be selected. The notes also 
say that, if an exchange rate is quoted, that means that a currency other than GBP is to be 
used. 
I think its likely that there was no specific discussion about the currency to be used to make 
the transfer. If there had been, I see no reason why GBP would not have been selected. I 
think it more likely that, since the transfer was being made to an account in Poland, Lloyds 
systems defaulted to PLN. 
However, as I have indicated, I am satisfied that Mr R had the opportunity to check the 
instructions and to correct any errors. He also received a printed confirmation of the 
payment, which explained that it would be made within two to three days. That confirmation 
included:
Recipients bank country 
POLAND
Currency
GBP
Exchange rate
1GBP = 5.2644PLN
Amount 120000.00GBP        
Arguably, that confirmation might have made it clearer that the payment would be converted 
from GBP to PLN. It did however include an exchange rate. That would only have been 
included if the payment was to be converted and is, in my view, evidence that Mr R 
confirmed  perhaps inadvertently  that the payment was to be made in PLN. In the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that Lloyds followed his instructions. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Lloyds Bank PLC to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman