DRN-3761987
The complaint
Mr W complains Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his account and refused transactions adversely 
impacting his business and work. 
 
What happened
Mr W holds a current account with Lloyds. Towards the end of April 2022, Mr W attempted to 
purchase tools for his work from a specialist retailer. The purchase was being completed 
online and Mr W tried to use his Lloyds debit card to make payment. The online 
authorisation was completed successfully but his payment was rejected. 
Mr W called Lloyds to find out why there was a problem. He was told he would need to 
speak to their fraud department, but this could involve a two hour wait due to call volumes at 
the time. Unhappy to wait, Mr W decided to visit his local branch of Lloyds.
The Lloyds branch staff were able to successfully identify Mr W but werent able to access 
his account. Mr W wanted to withdraw cash to enable him to visit the tool supplier and 
complete his order. But the branch werent able to do that. They said they couldnt access 
his account without first speaking with Lloyds fraud department. As a result, Mr W remained 
at the branch for an extended time while they tried to do that. Access to his account was 
finally achieved after the branch staff received authorisation from Lloyds fraud department. 
But this was now early evening and a considerable time after the branchs closure.
Unhappy with his experience, Mr W complained to Lloyds. He said Lloyds fraud checks had 
caused him embarrassment and also set him back with his work as he was unable to 
purchase the necessary tools and materials. He said hed lost time and money because of 
Lloyds actions. Mr W wanted Lloyds to compensate him for his experience and losses.
Initially Mr W was offered compensation of £30. However, Mr W didnt accept that. So, 
Lloyds agreed to complete a full investigation into the circumstances of his complaint. Lloyds 
explained the outcome of their investigation in a call early in May 2022. They didnt agree 
theyd done anything wrong, declined his complaint and felt compensation wasnt 
appropriate. They said theyd confirm this in a letter to Mr W.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. He wanted 
Lloyds to provide specific reasons why his transaction attempts were declined, and his 
account was blocked. He didnt think it was fair that Lloyds could decline payments and 
apply account blocks without contacting him and explaining why. Particularly when hed 
completed all the necessary authentications.
Having considered all the information and explanations available, our investigator didnt 
agree Lloyds had done anything wrong. Our investigator said Lloyds were able to take the 
actions they did, and this was explained within the terms and condition of Mr Ws account.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators findings. He remained very upset that Lloyds were 
able to block his account without providing a detailed and valid explanation. He didnt think 
that any of Lloyds terms and conditions had applied in his circumstances and that they were 
unfair.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks and financial businesses have an implied duty to exercise reasonable care and 
skill when acting on their customers instructions. This includes not completing transactions 
where there are reasonable grounds to believe there may be an attempt to misappropriate 
funds. In recent court cases, it was suggested that this duty arises once a business has 
been put on enquiry that there may be reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) 
for this belief.
Lloyds, like many financial businesses, have systems that enable them to swiftly identify 
potential situations that could put both themselves and their customers at risk of financial 
harm. There are reports that suggest attempts to defraud bank accounts have risen 
significantly since the start of the global pandemic. As a result, banks systems have become 
more complex and rigorous to ensure all parties are protected as far as possible.
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ws account make provision for them to stop a 
transaction or block a bank account in certain circumstances. The current terms and 
conditions are available on their website here: 
https://www.lloydsbank.com/assets/media/pdfs/current-
accounts/personal_banking_terms_and_conditions.pdf.
Specifically, they are covered in section D15. The important point is that Lloyds are able to 
take steps where they reasonably suspect there may be a problem.
In Mr Ws case, it appears Lloyds systems identified that Mr Ws account may have been 
compromised. This can happen in a number of ways. It doesnt necessarily mean Mr W has 
himself done anything wrong. For example, it could result from a data leak experienced by 
another business resulting in his account details being compromised. Whatever the reason, 
Lloydss staff are often not able to provide specific details. These may be business sensitive 
to either Lloyds or organisations who feed information into their security systems. But where 
a potential problem is flagged, Lloyds are obliged to act upon it and investigate swiftly.
Mr W says his problems started when he attempted on online transaction with a tool supplier 
hed used previously. The usual authorisation processes were completed, but the transaction 
was still blocked. Lloyds have explained that the account block was the reason for the 
transaction decline; not the transaction itself.
Where a transaction is the cause of a block, Lloyds have explained they may contact their 
customer to authenticate and verify it. But that wasnt the case here. The compromise was 
identified as being to Mr Ws account itself. So, their follow up checks are more rigorous and 
usually result in their customer having to contact them. This avoids any direct Lloyds contact 
being intercepted by a potential imposter.
I think this also explains why Lloyds branch staff also werent able to immediately help Mr W. 
They wouldnt have had access to the necessary information or have the necessary 
discretion to authorise payments or withdrawals. Only Lloyds fraud department could do 
that. Its unfortunate that it took so long to speak to someone within Lloyds fraud team. As 
with any business, call volumes can vary significantly at any time. 
Ultimately, it appears Lloyds took the steps they did in order to protect Mr Ws account from 
potential unauthorised access and ultimately financial loss. And while I realise this caused 
significant inconvenience to Mr W, I think Lloyds actions appear to have been reasonable 
given the warnings and suspicions that had been flagged to them. And I also think their 
terms and conditions make it clear what steps theyre able to take to protect their customers.Mr W says he didnt receive any written confirmation of Lloyds findings or the outcome to his 
complaint. Lloyds systems clearly show a letter was sent to him dated 5 May 2022. Ive also 
seen a copy of that letter which does provide Lloyds final response and appears to have 
been correctly addressed to Mr W. Lloyds dont track their external post. Neither are they 
required to do so. And as Lloyds use a third party to deliver their letters, in the event they 
arent delivered I cant reasonably hold them responsible. They wouldnt have any control 
over that.
I acknowledge Mr Ws strength of feeling about what happened. I accept his whole 
experience was extremely annoying and frustrating for him. Particular as it also had an 
impact on his work and business. But while I appreciate he will be disappointed; I havent 
found any evidence that suggests Lloyds did anything wrong or treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably here. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman