DRN-3169218
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold an HSBC Plus Account (HPA) in July 2009 by HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that HSBC pressurised him into taking out the HPA and he only used a small part 
of the benefits despite paying for them all.
HSBC says Mr A chose to take out the HPA based on the full information it gave him.
I wasnt present at the time of the sale so I can only base my decision on the evidence 
available today.
Mr A took out a fee free account in 1996 and kept his fee free account for many years before 
the upgrade to the HPA took place in 2009. In 2009, fee free accounts were widely available 
and advertised by other banks and financial institutions. So, in my view, Mr A knew that fee 
free accounts were available from HSBC and other providers.
Mr A says that he was rung regularly by HSBC telling him about the HPA and its benefits. He 
believes he gave in under pressure and took the HPA when he didnt want it.
While I dont doubt Mr As honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that his 
memory is mistaken. I say this because he has acknowledged that the HPA had benefits he 
was interested in and went on to use. And if the pressure of the calls from HSBC were 
affecting him adversely, I think he would have closed his account with HSBC and taken a fee 
free account elsewhere, rather than signing up to monthly fee for something he didnt want.
So, in my view, I think its more likely than not Mr A knew he had a choice whether to take 
out the HPA and he chose to take it out.
Mr A is unsure whether HSBC advised him to have the HPA. HSBC says it didnt advise him 
to take it. Ive not seen any evidence of HSBC having assessed Mr As needs as I might if it 
had been advising him. And this service is aware that HSBC generally sold HPAs on a non-
advised basis.
So, I think its more likely than not that this was a non-advised sale, and so HSBC was only 
required to provide Mr A with enough information for him to make an informed choice.
And I think it did. I say this because HSBC has provided evidence of the information it 
wouldve given Mr A and he went on make significant savings on his overseas cash 
withdrawals and on his overdraft. 
I think its unlikely that if hed had more information about the HPA it would have changed his 
mind about buying it. And Mr A couldve closed the account at any time after the first 12 
months, but he kept if for more than 5 years.
So, I think its more likely than not that HSBC did not do anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman