DRN-3960518
The complaint
Mrs W complains Morses Club PLC (Morses) defaulted her loan without giving notice during 
the COVID- 19 pandemic. Mrs W also says this default is preventing her from switching a 
mortgage to a lower interest rate. 
What happened
The default was recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in connection with a loan she took for £700 
on 18 August 2017. Mrs W was due to make 52 weekly repayments of £24.50. 
I can see from the statement of account provided by Morses that Mrs W had problems 
repaying the loan from at least December 2017. I can also see the debt was sold to a third-
party collection agency in July 2021. Morses later confirmed a County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) has been recorded against Mrs W for the sum of £443.44. 
Mrs W says that she called Morses at the end of February 2021 and it agreed to put a hold 
on her account. Then in June 2021, she found out that her account had been defaulted and 
she hadnt received notification of this. 
Mrs W complained to Morses who wrote to her in a final response letter explaining why it 
wasnt going to uphold her complaint. In this letter, Morses accepted she has spoken to one 
of its representatives on 9 March 2021 who had put a temporary hold on the account until 
26 May 2021. This hold wouldve stopped arrears calls and visits from its agent. 
Morses says that during this account hold, information wouldve still been recorded with the 
credit reference agencies and regulatory letters would still have been sent  it says one such 
letter was sent on 22 March 2021. It also says another letter was sent to Mrs W on 
22 June 2021 letting her know the account had defaulted. Around this time, Morses received 
a call from Mrs W and she agreed to pay £26.50 per month  however, no payments were 
successful.
Unhappy with this response Mrs W referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint, and he partly upheld it because he thought Morses 
ought to have defaulted the account much sooner than it did. The adjudicator explained it 
took almost four years for Morses to default the account and he could see from the 
statement of account that Mrs W had been struggling to repay the loan for some time. In the 
adjudicators view the account ought to have been default in February 2019  around 
18 months after the loan was granted because at this point, Mrs W still owed Morses around 
half the amount she was due to pay. 
In addition, he explained why Mrs W had contacted Morse for further help that she needed 
as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. He could see that a planned call wasnt made after 
the end of the hold period in May 2021. Having thought about the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs W he felt a payment of £100 was fair.  
Following a telephone call with the adjudicator the call notes suggest that Mrs W did accept 
the outcome, but she had some further questions about the CCJ. Later the adjudicator 
emailed Mrs W to explain that the CCJ was a separate matter and not something Morses 
was granted. Therefore, Mrs W would need to complain to the third party who was awarded 
the CCJ. 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators proposed outcome. Ive read in full what it has 
said, and Ive summarised its response below. 
A default wouldnt be recorded until Mrs W went 17 weeks without a payment being 
made. 
Given Mrs Ws payment record a default wasnt appropriate at the time the 
adjudicator suggested.  
Mrs W made a payment to Morses in February 2019 which prevented a default from 
being applied at this time. 
Morses acted fairly and sent Mrs W all the arrears notices that it was required to do. 
Morses was aware of a change in Mrs Ws circumstances when it spoke to her on 
25 February 2021.
A default notice was sent to Mrs W on 14 March 2021  when no further contact was 
received the account was defaulted and then sold to a third party in July 2021.
When Mrs W spoke to Morses on 5 July 2021 the account was already in the process 
of being sold to the third party and so any payment which may have been made 
around this time wouldnt have prevented the sale from going ahead. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by echoing what the adjudicator has said about the CCJ. This decision can 
only deal with the acts or omissions of Morses. As the CCJ was sought and granted to a 
third party this decision cant look at what happened. Mrs W will need to take that up 
separately with the third party. 
As Ive explained above, had Mrs W repaid the loan in line with the credit agreement it 
wouldve been fully repaid by August 2018. This clearly didnt happen, and a default wasnt 
recorded until July 2021. The adjudicator said this should be backdated to February 2019. 
Morses disagreed with this and so Ive thought about whether it is fair and reasonable for the 
default to be backdated, taking account of good industry practice and guidance. 
Ive considered what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says because it is the 
body which has been created and has issued guidance for lenders as to what, how and 
when information should be reported to the credit reference agencies. 
This guidance can be found in its paper called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. I consider this to be good 
industry practice and so it is entirely reasonable to see what the ICO says about when a 
default ought to be reported. 
The ICO sets out a clear expectation that should payments not be made in line with the 
credit agreement than adverse information can and should be reported to the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs)2. Should a payment not be made as expected, information to reflect this will 
be recorded on your credit file
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the 
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported 
to the CRAs as being in arrears.
If this continues over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may 
result in the lender taking some form of action. This could include notification of their 
intention to report the account as defaulted (see Principle 4 below).
Underneath this is a footnote aimed directly at home credit providers  which Morses is one. 
1 Home collected credit includes informal flexibility as standard to help debtors cope 
with unexpected budget pressures. In effect, the home credit agent can - during the 
weekly home visit - agree missed or part payments on the spot (normally at no extra 
cost). These informal variations are not themselves reported. However, when the 
debtor has - in aggregate - missed to the value of 4.33 weekly repayments 
(equivalent to one months arrears), that is reported (as arrears). Only the larger 
home credit companies use the reporting agencies.
The guidance then goes on to say
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised 
terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the 
relationship has broken down. 
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears. 
There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later 
stage, such as secured or long term loans e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates 
in a more flexible way e.g. current accounts, student loans, home credit. 
If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.
So, the ICO is clear, that should payments not be made, then when the account is at least 3 
months in arrears (and thinking about the home credit guidance this would be 12.99 weeks 
in arrears) a default can be recorded.
Mrs W was committed to paying £24.50 per week, so over a four-week period, I would 
expect to see repayments of £98. From the statement of account, I can see there are 
months when Mrs W doesnt make any payments such as in December 2017, March 2018, 
June and July 2018. 
When Mrs W did make payments, these tended to be for different amounts. For example, 
she paid £60 in May 2018 and then £35 in August 2018. Clearly, Mrs W was having longer 
term repayment problems given the infrequent and differing amounts she was paying.  Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that at this time Mrs W was subject to a formal arrangement, rather 
that Morses appeared to have been happy to accepted the variable payments Mrs W was 
making. I accept the guidance says a default ought not to be applied if a repayment plan is agreed 
and stuck too, but I cant fairly conclude that in this case Mrs W was subject to a formal plan 
and was able to stick to it. 
Morses says a default wasnt recorded in February 2019 because Mrs W called in and made 
a payment  and I can see a payment was made by Mrs W on 8 February 2019 for £10. But 
then Mrs W doesnt make any further payments until 8 April 2019 when she pays £100 and 
then another payment on 7 June 2019 for £30. 
So, while I accept the February 2019 payment may have prevented the default, the fact that 
then no further payments were made for two months ought to have further indicated to 
Morses that Mrs W was having financial problems and applying a default at this time would 
be reasonable and in line with the ICO guidance. 
I say this because by February 2019, Mrs W still owed Morses £668, which is just over half 
what Mrs W was contracted to pay. Even though it was now 18 months since the loan was 
granted and around six months after the loan ought to have been fully repaid. I am also 
satisfied that the account was sufficiently in arrears for a default to have been applied at this 
moment in time- as it seems that Mrs W had not made any repayment at all for at least 
seven months and so was at least 28 weeks in arrears.  
Overall, I think proposed redress  that the default ought to have been registered in 
February 2019 is entirely fair and reasonable and consistent with the guidance the ICO 
issued. Especially in light of the number of months where no payments (seven months) were 
made at all and the sporadic nature of any payments Mrs W did make. I am therefore going 
to propose that Morses ought to back-date the default it has recorded about this loan to 
February 2019. 
I appreciate Mrs W wants the default removed from her credit file but in the circumstances, I 
dont think that would be the right thing to do. This is because, unfortunately, she struggled 
to repay the loan from quite early in the loan term and therefore the loan was always likely to 
default given the repayment history. So, I think its fair, in this case a default is recorded, but 
backdated to February 2019 as the adjudicator suggested. The default will remain on her 
credit file for six years from this date and therefore it will be removed around February 2025.
I accept that Mrs W sought help during the COVID-19 pandemic after a change in 
employment and the need to help a vulnerable family member. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (the industry regulator) provided guidance as to the steps lenders ought to take to 
assist someone needing help. 
However, this guidance was really only applicable to people who were having difficulties 
solely because of the pandemic. In Mrs Ws case, it is clear to me that her problems started 
much sooner than that  likely at some point at the end of 2017. And so, I dont think the 
COVID-19 support was appropriate for Mrs W. This would be that Mrs W would be subject to 
the regular guidance that lenders should adhere to which can be found in the Consumer 
Credit sourcebook. 
The adjudicator also recommended a compensation payment of £100 due to the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her by Morses because it didnt carry out the account review at 
the end of May 2021, as agreed. And neither can it explain why it wasnt carried out. He also 
said, due to call recordings not being available because of Morses deletion policy he wasnt 
able to confirm what Mrs W was told in July 2021 about the status of her account.  In his 
view, due to a lack of proactivity by Morses it ought to make a payment of £100. From what Mrs W has told me, this was a difficult time for her and there had been significant 
changes in her employment. She reasonably contacted Morses for advice and guidance and 
it seems, for whatever reasons the account review wasnt carried out. And neither does 
Mrs W appear to have been aware that her account was being sold. The call from July 2021 
isnt available. But Mrs Ws testimony is clear that neither the default nor sale of the account 
was mentioned. Overall, I agree with the adjudicator that a lack of proactivity from Morses 
added to Mrs Ws distress during an already difficult time. 
Therefore, I havent seen anything to make me think this award isnt fair or reasonable, so 
Im also going to recommend Morses makes this payment as well. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs W it should arrange for the following to be done;
Update Mrs Ws credit file in relation to this loan to backdate the default to 
February 2019. 
Liaise with the third party to ensure that any default it is recording about this loan is 
also backdated to February 2019. 
Pay Mrs W directly £100 for the distress and inconvenience that has been caused. 
To reiterate, what Morses needs to do to put things right doesnt have any bearing on the 
CCJ that has been recorded on Mrs Ws credit file as this is a separate issue. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
 
Morses Club PLC trading as Morses Clubs should put things right for Mrs W as directed 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman