DRN-2859370
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) offered her a credit card 
which she couldnt afford.
What happened
Mrs M applied online for a Halifax credit card in May 2019. She declared her annual income 
as £21,500 with monthly commitments of £320. Based on this, Halifax offered her a credit 
card with a limit of £3,200.
Recently, Mrs M complained about Halifaxs decision to offer her a credit card. She said her 
income was significantly less than the £21,500 she had declared and that she already had a 
large amount of debt elsewhere which she was struggling to afford. She thinks Halifax lent 
irresponsibly to her.
Halifax didnt agree that it had lent irresponsibly. It said, based on the information shed 
provided and her credit score, it was reasonable to offer her the amount it did. It did offer to 
refund all of the interest shed paid to date as it recognised she was in financial difficulty. It 
also proposed reducing her credit limit.
Mrs M didnt accept this and referred her complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into things.  He didnt think Halifax had acted incorrectly in offering Mrs M the credit 
limit it had. 
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator. She said the information shed input when applying 
for the credit card wasnt correct and Halifax shouldve realised this. She says her credit file 
wasnt up to date and that she was using credit cards to pay other debt. She asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed again, so its been passed to me to consider and make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a bank is considering providing borrowing facilities to a consumer, it needs to carry 
out checks which are proportionate and reasonable in relation to the amount being lent. In 
this situation, Halifax has confirmed it carried out a credit score using its internal systems. 
And its shown us evidence of this. The credit score, combined with the information Mrs M 
provided about her income and expenditure, suggested to Halifax that Mrs M could afford to 
take out this credit card. I know Mrs M says the amount of income she declared was the total 
household income, not just hers. But Halifax wouldnt have known this. And it was entitled to 
rely on information Mrs M provided when making its decision of whether to lend or not. 
Mrs M says she already had a lot of credit elsewhere and was already struggling to meet her 
payments. Ive seen a recent copy of her credit file. Whilst I can see Mrs M has a lot of credit 
elsewhere, the majority of this was taken after she applied for the Halifax credit card. So, this 
isnt something Halifax couldve taken into consideration when deciding whether to provide 
the credit card. She did have three other credit cards at the time, but the credit file shows 
that all payments were up to date. Based on this, I cant agree that she was already 
struggling financially when she applied for the Halifax credit card.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax fairly considered Mrs Ms credit card application. Its checks 
were proportionate to the amount it was lending, and Im satisfied it was a reasonable 
decision to lend. 
Its clear Mrs M is now struggling due to taking on a significant amount of further credit since 
her application to Halifax. Halifax agreed to refund all interest which had been applied to her 
account to date and reduce her credit limit to a more manageable amount. I think this offer is 
fair in the circumstances. Halifax has said interest will continue to accrue after this point, and 
its entitled to make this decision. So, Mrs M should contact Halifax to discuss an affordable 
way for her to repay the remaining balance on the card. 
My final decision
I understand Mrs M feels very strongly about this matter, but my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman