DRN-1677048
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about St Andrews plcs decision to reject a claim following a burglary 
to his home. St Andrews cancelled his home insurance policy. 
All references to St Andrews as the underwriter of the policy includes its agents.
What happened
Mr W renewed his home insurance policy in October 2016. In July 2017 Mr Ws partner, Ms 
K made a claim to St Andrews for a burglary to their home in June 2017. Ms K said that Mr 
W was working abroad at the time. 
St Andrews made several attempts to contact Mr W and Ms K to arrange an interview to 
discuss the claim, but without success. In May 2019 it discovered that Mr W had been 
convicted of a criminal offence in May 2017 and was in prison.
Mr Ws policy said he needed to tell St Andrews about a criminal conviction as soon as 
possible as it may affect his cover. St Andrews rejected the claim. It cancelled Mr Ws policy 
from May 2017 and refunded his premium from the same date. 
Mr W complained to St Andrews. He said it had caused unreasonable delays in its handling 
of the claim. He said he didnt receive the policy booklet. He said he wasnt involved in the 
burglary and was immediately incarcerated following his conviction and had other things on 
his mind. He didnt remember who his insurer was until his partner contacted him about the 
burglary. 
St Andrews said its decision was correct. So Mr W asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought that it wasnt reasonable for St Andrews to reject the claim because 
Mr W hadnt told it hed been convicted sooner. But she thought Mr W should have disclosed 
it to St Andrews when his partner made a claim on his behalf a month later. So she 
considered what the outcome would have been in these circumstances. 
St Andrews provided underwriting evidence to show that if Mr W had told it about his 
conviction, it would have cancelled his policy and his claim wouldnt have been covered in 
any event. So the investigator thought its decision to reject Mr Ws claim and cancel his 
policy was fair.
Mr W didnt agree. In summary he says his contract wasnt with the underwriter. And he 
hasnt seen the evidence the underwriter relied on to show it reasonably cancelled his policy 
and rejected his claim. He said he still hasnt received a copy of his policy booklet  only an 
extract of the wording. 
Mr W says his conviction is entirely unrelated to the event he claimed for. So he doesnt 
believe St Andrews decision to cancel his policy and reject his claim is fair. From the extract he has, he doesnt believe it was clear enough in the policy as to what would happen if he 
were convicted of a criminal offence. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont intend to uphold it. 
Ill explain why. 
St Andrews highlighted in the policy that Mr W must tell it about certain changes during the 
insurance period. It relied on the following condition of the policy when it decided to cancel 
Mr Ws policy and reject his claim. And this is the wording it provided Mr W with when it 
replied to his complaint.
You must also tell us as soon as possible if:
 You or anyone living with you are convicted of a criminal offence (other than for motoring
offences) during the insurance period
"Because we can change your terms or cover to reflect a change from when it happens, it is 
very important that you tell us about a change before it happens or as soon as you know 
about it. Once you have told us about a change, we will let you know whether we can 
continue your cover and, if we can, the terms on which it will continue.
If any of the above changes happen during the insurance period, we can do one or more of 
the following to take account of the change:
 Treat your policy as ended from the date of the change meaning that you will not be   
covered after that date.
 Apply different terms to your policy from the date of the change to take the change into 
account, for example we may exclude certain cover from the date the change happened.
 Refuse a claim made after the change or reduce the claim payment.
 Increase or decrease your premium.
Mr W said he didnt receive a policy booklet. I think its reasonable for Mr W to have made 
enquiries with St Andrews when he bought his policy if he wasnt in receipt of the policy 
booklet. But I think St Andrews should have provided Mr W with a further copy when 
requested. I can see from the renewal documents sent to Mr W in September 2016 that it 
provided a record of the key questions and Mr Ws answers. It included the question; Do 
you or anyone living with you have any criminal convictions (other than for motoring 
offences)? which Mr W answered no. This would have been correct in September 2016. 
However, it then reads in bold:
"Why is it important to tell us if there is any change to this information?You must also tell us if any of your answers change during the insurance period. If you don't 
let us know your policy may become invalid or claims may be affected. For full details, 
please refer to the section of your policy booklet entitled 'Changes You Must Tell Us About' 
Please contact us if you're unsure about anything
So even if Mr W didnt receive a copy of the policy booklet, Im satisfied that St Andrews 
made Mr W aware of the requirement to tell it as soon as possible about a criminal 
conviction and what might happen if he didnt at renewal in September 2016.
Insurers have their own underwriting criteria which set out the risks they are prepared to 
provide cover for. This information is commercially sensitive and so cant be shared with 
customers. St Andrews has shown us its underwriting guidance and I have seen that it has 
treated Mr W fairly and in line with the policy. For this reason, I dont think St Andrews acted 
unreasonably by not specifying what would happen in Mr Ws particular circumstances. I 
think it was clear about his obligation to inform them of a criminal conviction.
Im satisfied from the evidence provided by St Andrews that it correctly applied its 
underwriting criteria when deciding not to provide cover to Mr W. So even if he had disclosed 
his conviction to St Andrews sooner, I dont think it changes the outcome. I think its decision 
to cancel his policy from May 2017 and provide a refund of his premium was fair and in line 
with the policy. 
I dont think St Andrews is responsible for any delay in dealing with the claim. It made a 
number of attempts to contact both Mr W and Ms K to arrange an interview to discuss the 
claim before it discovered that Mr W was in prison. 
Overall I think St Andrews has acted reasonably. So Im not asking it do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman