DRN-3364146
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave to him in 2014 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Mr C has been helped by professional representatives to bring his complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Cs.
What happened
After receiving a letter from Portal, Mr C contacted it around August 2013 in order to discuss 
his pension and retirement needs. 
Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and 
objectives. Portal also carried out an assessment of his attitude to risk, which it deemed to 
be balanced. Portal conducted a telephone review with Mr C on 12 March 2014. The next 
day (13 March) it sent him a letter explaining that it didnt recommend he transfer his DB 
benefits because the critical yield (the growth rate required to match his DB benefits) was 
too high at 18.7%. But, Portal said it could still help Mr C if he wanted to go ahead and asked 
him to return the enclosed options form. The options form was to let Portal know whether or 
not Mr C wanted to go ahead with accessing your pension fund early even though this goes 
against our recommendation. It gave him two choices:
Income drawdown; after taking tax free cash (TFC) of £50,885 and reinvesting the 
remaining £152,656.
Accept Portals recommendation to leave his funds where they were. 
It said that if Mr C chose the first option, as that was against Portals advice, he should also 
sign the enclosed insistent client form. That form set out that a new plan would need to grow 
at a rate of 18.7% in order to match the benefits from the DB scheme. It also said that Mr C 
would be giving up an annual pension of £10,265. It went on to say that, in comparison Mr C 
could take a tax free sum of £50,885 immediately and might expect to receive an annual 
pension of £7,410 at age 60 by transferring out of the scheme. Mr C returned the insistent 
client form on 17 March 2014 confirming he wanted to go ahead with the transfer. 
Portal sent Mr C a suitability report setting out its advice on 25 March 2014. The report said 
Mr C was 55 years old, employed and earning approximately £2,000 a month. It noted Mr C 
was married, had a mortgage on his home of around £20,000 which he repaid at a cost of 
£309 a month. He had other debts of £40,000 for which he paid total repayments of £841. 
Portal recorded that Mr C was two months behind with one of his repayments, which meant 
he had arrears of around £960. It said he had disposable income of £300 a month and 
another pension with his current employer.
Regarding Mr Cs DB scheme, the report recorded it had a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £203,541 and a scheme retirement age of 60. The DB scheme would pay Mr C a 
pension of £10,265 a year without taking any TFC.
The report said that Mr Cs objective was to release cash from his pension to be able to 
make home improvements and pay off debts. Portal said it had looked into other ways for 
Mr C to generate the money required to meet his objectives, but said he didnt have any 
other assets he could use and didnt want to take out any further borrowing or pay interest.
It said:
Due to the guaranteed benefits that you will be relinquishing with [Mr Cs DB scheme], it is 
against my recommendation to transfer your benefits. You have decided that you still wish to 
proceed with the Pension Release. On this basis, although we can help you release money 
from your pension, we are treating you as an insistent client.
You are aware that by taking this amount now, you will not have a guaranteed pension 
benefit, which you do currently have through your defined benefit (otherwise known as final 
salary) pension scheme. You stated that you are aware of the benefits that you are giving 
up, and that you wish to proceed on this basis, even though I have advised that it is 
extremely unlikely that we will be able to match the required annual return (the critical yield 
of 18.7%).
Later in the report, under a heading of our recommendation Portal repeated that it was 
treating Mr C as an insistent client when it said:
You have decided that you still wish to proceed with Pension Release despite us advising 
you not to. We will assist you with this, and have treated you as an Insistent Client'.
It went on to say that it was recommending that Mr C invest in a SIPP provided by a 
company Ill call L. It said the reason for this was because:
The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the 
benefits available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the 
benefits that would have been available through your existing provider.
It said that by following this recommendation Mr C could:
Meet your stated objectives and make home improvements and reduce your debt.
Crystallise £120,000 of your fund in order to release the Tax Free Cash sum of 
£30,000 from your arrangement.
Leave £83,541 un-crystallised [sic], of which you are entitled to release 25% of the 
fund as a Tax Free Cash lump sum at a later date.
In May 2014 L confirmed the transfer had gone through. It had received £203,541 from 
Mr Cs DB scheme. It had paid Mr C £30,022 in TFC from crystallised funds of £120,089, It 
had also invested an uncrystallised sum of £83,452. It said it had paid Portal £10,177 and 
would continue to pay it 1% of the fund value each year being the fees Mr C had agreed to 
pay.
Mr C complained to Portal in October 2020 about the suitability of the advice it gave to him in 
2014 because he said, amongst other things, that Portal:
Provided negligent advice, which was confusing, contradictory and misleading.
Didnt fully explain what it meant by treating Mr C as an insistent client.
Didnt look into cash raising alternatives to transferring from the DB scheme.
Ignored the regulators guidance.Didnt explore the possibility of Mr C taking funds from his DB scheme early.
Incorrectly said the benefits for the new plan would exceed the benefits from the 
DB scheme.
Didnt make clear what benefits Mr C would be losing, including death benefits.
Didnt explain the advantages and disadvantages of the proposed new scheme 
including its costs and charges.
Portal didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said, amongst other things, that:
It had clearly advised Mr C not to transfer out of his DB scheme outlining the risks of 
doing so. 
It assisted Mr C by processing the transfer on an insistent client basis.
Portal had advised that it was extremely unlikely that the new scheme would match 
the required annual return. 
It had clearly warned Mr C about the guarantees and benefits he would be losing and 
acted in Mr Cs best interest by recommending that he should not transfer out of the 
DB scheme. 
It had explained the new scheme charges in its suitability report.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators upheld the complaint and 
required Portal to pay compensation including a sum of £300 to address Mr Cs distress and 
inconvenience arising from Portals actions. He said that Portal should have given Mr C its 
suitability report before classifying him as an insistent client. The manner in which Portal 
presented its advice seemed to encourage Mr C to transfer out of his DB scheme. Some of 
Portals advice, particularly that Mr C would be better off in retirement by transferring out of 
the DB scheme, was misleading. Mr C didnt fully understand what it meant to be considered 
an insistent client. As a result of Portals advice he lost valuable benefits by transferring into 
a scheme that was likely to provide lower benefits.
Portal disagreed. In summary, it said:
It acted in Mr Cs best interests.
Mr C understood what the figures meant and by how much the new scheme would 
need to grow to match the existing DB scheme.
Portal advised against the transfer from Mr Cs DB scheme and made it very clear to 
him what benefits hed be giving up.
It was entitled to rely on Mr Cs understanding and he was not obliged to sign to 
agree to the insistent client process.
Portal had followed the regulators guidance that was in place at the time.
It disclosed all of the risks of proceeding clearly and Mr C was in a fully informed 
position to make his decision.
Owing to Mr Cs financial position at the time it believed he would have gone ahead 
with the transfer with or without its involvement. 
It was satisfied that Mr C had understood the risks he was taking and that if hed 
shown a clear lack of understanding it wouldnt have gone ahead with the insistent 
client process. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr C and Portal have made many points in bringing the complaint and in replying to it. 
And I've considered carefully everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address 
each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that are at the heart 
of Mr Cs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Our approach 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulators position
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that it was in Mr Cs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Did Portal fairly decide to treat Mr C as an insistent client?
Portals position is that, in line with the regulators guidance, its recommendation was that 
Mr C should not transfer out of his DB scheme. And that it only arranged the transfer for him 
on the basis that he was insistent it did so. As such it said that it followed the appropriate 
process for treating Mr C as an insistent client. So Ive looked very carefully at the process 
Portal went through and the advice it gave to Mr C.
At the time of Portals advice there was no specific regulatory advice or guidance in place in 
respect of insistent clients. But there were COBS rules in the regulators Handbook which 
required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Portal to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. So, Portals recommendation had to be clear and Mr C had to 
have understood the consequences of going against it.
Portals role was to discern what Mr Cs wants and needs were and why he wanted to 
transfer his pension. Its role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr C wanted. And overall, it had 
to act in his best interests.
Portals recommendation, both in its letter of 13 March 2014 and in its later suitability report 
was that Mr C should not transfer out of his DB scheme. But I think that recommendation 
was undermined by the manner in which Portal presented it. Portals 13 March letter clearly 
made the point that Mr Cs DB scheme had a transfer value of £203,541 from which he could 
release £50,885 immediately in a lump sum. The letter only later said that because of the 
high critical yield its recommendation was that he shouldn't transfer. So Portal had already 
dangled the prospect of £50,885 in instant cash in front of Mr C before telling him it didnt 
think he should take that cash. 
Then in the next paragraph Portal told Mr C that if he wanted to go ahead with the transfer 
out of the scheme it could help him to do that, if he completed the enclosed options and 
insistent client forms. Further, the letter encouraged Mr C to return the enclosed forms as 
soon as he could so it could get on with making the transfer. In other words the letter was written in such a way as to presume that transferring was something of a foregone 
conclusion. Otherwise why would there be any need for Mr C to return the forms with haste, 
rather than giving him time to consider what could be a life-changing decision? So I dont 
think Portals approach was appropriate given that it had already determined it wasnt in 
Mr Cs best interests to transfer out of the scheme. 
Portal presented the possibility of transferring out of the scheme on an insistent client basis, 
alongside the recommendation not to make the transfer. I think this made it far too easy for 
Mr C to simply decide that transferring his funds was a suitable alternative to staying in the 
scheme. But Portal was aware that a decision to transfer out of the DB scheme was not in 
Mr Cs best interests. Had it not given Mr C the option and the means to go ahead with the 
transfer at that time then Mr C would have had to instigate that process himself. That is, it 
would have placed the onus on Mr C to contact Portal again to find out what he needed to do 
if he genuinely insisted on transferring out of the scheme. But Portal didnt do that, instead it 
gave him the ways and the means to act in a manner Portal knew wasnt in Mr Cs best 
interests, but would see it earn a significant fee.
Also I dont think Portals letter and the options and insistent client forms gave appropriate 
emphasis to why its recommendation was not to transfer out of the DB scheme. In this 
situation Id expect the emphasis to be the reasons why the transfer was not in Mr Cs best 
interests and consideration of the alternative options available to Mr C. But the information 
on the insistent client form was limited to the loss of guarantees because of the critical yield 
required to match the benefits. So, at that time, Mr C had little information to go off to decide 
if being an insistent client was truly in his best interests at that point. And Portal didnt 
highlight other risks involved in the transfer  for example the risk of funds running out in 
drawdown.
Further, Portal didn't produce its suitability report until after Mr C had signed the form to say 
it should treat him as an insistent client. But its letter of 13 March 2014 told him that by 
transferring out of the scheme he could enjoy a TFC sum of £ £50,885 (and he could 
reinvest the remaining pension pot of £152,656). Similarly, the enclosed insistent client form 
summarised both the benefits he could expect to lose but also what he could possibly gain 
from transferring out of the DB scheme. But it presented that information to him in a raw 
state, that is without the analysis contained within Portals suitability report. I find this 
undermines the process. That's because I don't see how Portal could expect Mr C to make 
an informed decision about going against its recommendation not to transfer when it hadn't 
given him all the information he needed in order to make that decision. That is, it gave him 
some bare-bones information and expected him to make a determination that would start 
him down the road of the insistent client process without giving him enough detail to 
reasonably make that decision.
Also, when Portal did send Mr C its suitability report, I find that it was confusing. I think it 
included mixed messages and some of its advice was misleading. For example the report 
says that its recommendation was that Mr C should not transfer out of his DB scheme. But 
then immediately says that as he is an insistent client Portals recommendation was that he 
should transfer out of his DB scheme. It said that by doing so he could fulfil his objectives of 
making home improvements and paying off debts by releasing TFC in his chosen sum of 
£30,000. So this clearly gives the impression that transferring out of the scheme would be in 
Mr Cs best interests.
Also, under a heading of Ways to Generate Cash, where Portal considered other options 
for raising funds outside of transferring away from the scheme, Portal said this:
Should you decide to continue paying off your debt through monthly contributions rather 
than using the Tax Free Cash lump sum from your pension, you will have a total repayment of £48,854.03 calculated at a market average rate of 10.55% APR on the debt, with a 
pension value of £336,631 based on 5% growth at retirement.
If however, you decide to take your Tax Free Cash lump sum from your pension and use this 
to pay off your debt upfront, while refocusing your debt contributions into your pension; you 
will have total contributions into your pension of £58,624.84 (this has been grossed up due 
to tax relief) and a pension value of £334,933 based on 5% growth at retirement.
As you can see, by taking the Tax Free Cash amount you are entitled to, this will result in 
you receiving a higher pension value at retirement as it allows you to redirect your 
contributions that would have been focused on repaying your debt back into your pension 
whereby you will receive tax relief.
So that is clear advice that by transferring out of his DB scheme and taking his TFC then that 
would result in Mr C being better off in the long run. But that advice was based on the 
assumption that Mr C would take all his TFC and instantly use it to pay off his debts. And 
then use the funds that he was saving by not making debt repayments and investing those 
straight back into an alternative pension fund. But, as far as I'm aware, Mr C hadn't given 
any indication he intended to do either of those things. Mr C had said he wanted to pay off 
some debts, although Portals report doesn't say which debts and what that would cost. But, 
at that time, Mr C had debts (including his mortgage) of around £60,000. But he only wanted 
£30,000 TFC. So that sum wasnt ever going to pay off all his debts, rendering Portals 
advice on this point largely irrelevant. 
Also, Mr C said he wanted to use some of his TFC to make home improvements. But Portal 
didnt examine what those home improvements were or how much they would cost. And as 
the money for those home improvements was coming from the TFC lump sum it certainly 
wouldnt be used for paying off the existing debt, further weakening the strength of Portals 
advice.
Similarly, I can't see anywhere where Mr C indicated that his intention was to divert any 
funds currently used for debt repayments straight back into an alternative pension fund. So it 
seems to me that Portal's comments, that Mr C could be better off in retirement by taking his 
TFC rather than staying in is DB scheme were based on an extremely unlikely scenario, 
unsupported by evidence. As such that advice was of little actual value to Mr C in terms of 
him making an informed and balanced decision about what the likely outcomes of his options 
were. So I don't think it was reasonable for Portal to give Mr C the false impression that by 
taking his TFC his pension would be in a better position. It follows that I think Portals advice 
here was unclear and misleading. 
Portal repeated its assertion that Mr C would be better off in retirement by transferring out of 
his DB scheme later in its suitability report. Under a heading of Our Recommendation 
Portal repeated that it was treating Mr C as an insistent client but then said it was 
recommending he transfer out of his DB scheme, saying:
The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the 
benefits available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the 
benefits that would have been available through your existing provider.
So, in the above Portal said that it did recommend a transfer. And that the reasons for such 
a recommendation was not just that Mr C could achieve his objectives but also that his new 
pension would exceed the pension available from his DB Scheme. But, while that was an 
outside possibility, Portals own analysis showed that to be an extremely unlikely outcome. 
It also entirely contradicts the reason it purportedly wasnt recommending the transfer in the 
first place. I think Portals advice here was misleading. And this approach was a pattern throughout its process. As a result, I think Mr C couldve misunderstood or believed that 
overall, Portal was recommending he should go ahead with the transfer and that it was 
simply paying lip-service to the insistent client process.
In contrast Portals said that Mr C didnt have to sign the insistent client form and didnt give 
it any impression that he didnt understand the process. Mr C doesn't dispute that he did sign 
the form, though hes said he didnt really understand the process and that he thought Portal 
wanted him to go ahead with the transfer. But even if Mr C did fully understand what it meant 
to be an insistent client I dont think Portal did enough to establish his motives for going 
down that route.
Portals suitability report says Mr Cs objectives were to make home improvements and pay 
off debts. But I've seen nothing which shows that Portal found out what home improvements 
Mr C wanted to make or why he considered those so important that it was worth giving up 
the guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme for. Nor have I seen evidence that Portal 
explained to Mr C why that wouldnt be in his best interests. I note Portal recorded that Mr C 
said he didnt want to take on any further borrowing or pay interest. That might be the case, 
but I don't think Portal fully examined Mr Cs options here. While Portal had recorded that 
Mr C told it he was two months  around £960  in arrears with one of his repayments, 
theres no evidence it fully discussed with him ways to manage his debts. For example it 
didnt appear to discuss consolidation or restructuring of his debts to make those more 
affordable. Nor is there evidence it compared the likely costs of doing so against what he 
would be losing by transferring out of the scheme. Instead, Portal painted an entirely 
unrealistic picture, as I've described above, about what would happen if Mr C paid off all his 
debts with his TFC and redirected the saved funds towards a pension pot, when there was 
no prospect of that happening. Instead, it simply accepted that Mr C would like to have a tax 
free lump sum and went ahead and arranged that. 
I think most people would find the prospect of a tax free lump sum enticing. But Portals role 
was to find out what Mr Cs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what 
he wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so with the 
implications of taking those actions with him. But I've seen no evidence of such a challenge 
even though that was in Mr Cs best interests. So, while Portal recommended Mr C shouldnt 
transfer out of his DB scheme, I dont think Portals shown that it met its obligations to 
challenge Mr Cs objectives in light of what he would be giving up. 
Also, Mr Cs DB scheme would have allowed him to take benefits from it at age 55
although that would no doubt be at a reduced income. Portal hasn't retained any transfer 
analysis reports so I dont know if this was something that it ever considered. But theres no 
evidence elsewhere that it looked into what those benefits were and if those could have 
helped to meet Mr Cs objectives at that time. So it appears that Mr C was unlikely to be 
aware of that option. But, had that been something that was in his best interests, that would 
have meant that he would have preserved some of the benefits from his DB scheme, albeit 
at a reduced sum, but still allowed him access to others. One such benefit would have been 
an increasing, risk free, annual income that he would receive from age 55 for the rest of his 
life. But I've seen no evidence that, while saying that Mr C was an insistent client, Portal 
considered or put this alternative position to him. And I think exploring these alternatives was 
an important part of the advice process, which Portal failed to carry out.
Further, as set out above, there were flaws in Portals advice process which meant it didnt 
fully and accurately inform Mr C about his position. On balance, given these failings, I dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the process Portal followed meant that its 
fair to truly regard Mr C as an insistent client. Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr C about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows pension pots like Mr Cs DB 
scheme were paid into over many years with the intention of providing for retirement. But 
Mr Cs chosen path was to give up that income in retirement for a shorter-term solution, 
rather than long-term planning. And I don't think that applying an insistent client label to 
someone when they express that their preference is not to follow advice, is the same as 
applying a fair process of arriving at a reasonable determination of who an insistent client 
really is. 
It follows that I dont think Portal did enough to establish that Mr C was a genuine insistent 
client. So I dont think it treated him fairly. And, if it had done so and provided the level of 
advice that I think it should have, I think its unlikely that Mr C would have transferred out of 
his DB scheme at that time. 
Portal argues that Mr C would have transferred out of the scheme regardless of what it told 
him. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Portals advice in 2014. I say this because Mr C 
was an inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk. He could have found other 
ways to manage his debts by, for example, restructuring or consolidating those. And Portal 
sent him misleading messages that he would be better off by transferring out of the scheme. 
Had it not done so and been clearer about what Mr C stood to lose, clearly explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think hed have heeded Portals advice not to transfer. 
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Further, as Portals 
actions have clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr C, I think its fair 
and reasonable that Portal pay him £300 in redress for that. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal Financial Services LLP to put Mr C, as far 
as possible, into the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider 
Mr C would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, while Mr C has taken his TFC and drawn down funds from his SIPP, as far as Im 
aware he has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. But I understand that he 
would have been entitled to take the benefits from his DB scheme at age 60, and I think 
thats what hes likely to have done. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
scheme retirement age of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman