DRN-3643223
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about delays in the processing of their mortgage with 
Nationwide Building Society in 2021, which meant that they had to pay £10,000 stamp duty 
on the purchase. They are also unhappy with the advice they were given by Nationwide to 
enable them to arrange a household insurance policy, which was needed for the mortgage to 
progress, and that Nationwide didnt respond to their letters of complaint. 
What happened
On 18 March 2021 Mr P started the application process with Nationwide. They wanted to 
port their existing later life mortgage to a new property, and borrow further funds for the 
purchase. A decision in principle was agreed on 22 March 2021 and Mr and Mrs P were 
provided with an illustration for the new mortgage on 1 April 2022. 
The application was assessed and on 13 April 2021 Nationwide commissioned a valuation of 
the property Mr and Mrs P wanted to buy. It passed the application to its solicitors (E) at the 
same time.
On 16 April 2021 E sent Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors a letter and a pack of documents that 
needed completed and returned.  
On the same day, Mr P had a conversation with Nationwide in which it suggested that he 
attempt to get a copy of the lease on the new property, and details of the charges associated 
with it. It said that if this was provided it would speed up the process, as it wouldnt need to 
wait for the land registry to provide the information. Mr and Mrs P have said the information 
was provided three days later, but there is no record of its receipt in the information 
Nationwide has provided. 
On 27 April 2021 the valuation was completed. However, due to an administrative issue, the 
mortgage wasnt approved immediately. The mortgage offer was produced and sent to 
Mr and Mrs P on 12 May 2021 with an expiry date of 23 June 2021.Unfortunately, there was 
then a delay in Nationwide providing E with a copy of the offer. E was given a copy on 
19 May 2021 and E then emailed and faxed a copy to Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors on 27 May 
2021. 
In the meantime, E had chased Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors three times for a copy of the 
contract for the purchase of the new property.
On 1 June 2021 Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors informed Nationwide that the purchase wouldnt 
complete before 23 June 2021. It asked about extending the date on the offer. 
On 15 June 2021 a discussion was had between E and Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors about 
whether it would be possible to complete by the end of June 2021. E set out what it needed 
to do before a completion date could be agreed. It said it still hadnt had the title documents, 
and once they were received, it would then need to carry out a title check, raise any 
enquiries and deal with the replies. Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors were told that it was unlikely 
that completion would be authorised before the end of the month. A further copy of Es letter 
of 16 April 2021 and the associated pack was sent to the solicitors that day and the solicitors 
sent E a copy of the purchase contract. 
The following day a new mortgage offer was produced. It had an expiry date of 28 July 2021. 
On 24 June 2021 Mr and Mrs P complained to Nationwide that, what they described as its 
inefficiency, meant that that their purchase wouldnt happen before the end of June and so 
they would need to find an additional £10,000 for stamp duty. 
By this point, the title documents had been received by E and had been referred to the 
relevant team for the title check to be done. Off the back of the title check, further enquiries 
were sent to Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors on 8 July 2021. A revised mortgage offer was also 
issued to Mr and Mrs P on 9 July 2021.
On 23 July 2021 E identified a problem with one of the forms Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors had 
previously sent it. A revised form was sent to the solicitors for completion. 
It was not until 9 August 2021 that E received the last of the answers to its enquiries of 
8 July 2021. However, there was still outstanding documentation at this time and E chased 
provision of original documents.
On 18 August 2021 Nationwide issued a complaint response regarding the concerns 
Mr and Mrs P had raised about the delay in them receiving the extension to the mortgage 
offer and the service they had received from E. Nationwide confirmed that there had been a 
delay in the offer being produced and checked. However, it pointed out that E was still 
awaiting original documents from Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors. Nationwide confirmed that the 
case was being treated as urgent to ensure completion as soon as possible. In order to 
compensate Mr and Mrs P for the poor service they had received, Nationwide offered them 
£150.
On the same day, E confirmed that the answers to the last of the queries were satisfactory. 
However, it still needed Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors to provide documents for the mortgage to 
progress. These being the signed offer acceptance, the original of letter of undertaking, the 
original of the SHIP certificate, the original of ID verification form and the original certificate 
of buildings insurance. The SHIP certificate was the document E had identified a problem 
with in July 2021 and sent a new one for completion.
Mr and Mrs P raised concerns on 19 August 2021 about being required to provide a 
buildings insurance policy schedule, when the date of exchange and completion were still 
unknown. Nationwide responded the following day and confirmed that E had said it could 
make receipt of the completed insurance certificate a pre-completion requirement, but on the 
understanding that it wouldnt be able to ask Nationwide to draw down the mortgage funds 
until it had received the document. So Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors would need to ensure that 
the certificate was forwarded promptly following exchange and ensure that it was completed 
fully and correctly to make sure that it didnt cause any problems/delays with completion. 
Nationwide then explained that purchasers tended to deal with the need to have an 
insurance policy before exchange by giving their insurers a provisional start date for the 
policy in the future and then correct the start date once the exchange date was confirmed.
Later that day Mr P told Nationwide that his insurer had told him that it would not allow him to 
insure a property he didnt own, and insurance could only be in place from the date of 
exchange. As they didnt have an exchange date, they couldnt arrange insurance. He asked 
that E sign off the mortgage so an exchange date could be arranged. It doesnt appear that 
Nationwide responded.On 20 August 2021 E received the original documentation it required from Mr and Mrs Ps 
solicitors. However, there remained a problem with the SHIP certificate and it needed to be 
replaced. This was not received until 26 August 2021, which meant that completion couldnt 
happen before the mortgage offer expired. 
A further extension to the mortgage offer was needed, which involved Mr and Mrs P having 
to sign a new acceptance form. However, it was not until 1 September 2021 that the 
extension was confirmed. The mortgage completed on 9 September 2021.
On 22 August 2021 Mr and Mrs P complained again. They said that they were again back in 
the same position  needing an extension to the offer and nobody seeming to be able to tell 
them if it had been agreed. They said that Nationwide had missed from the original 
complaint their point about the delay in providing an extension to the offer and that these 
delays had meant that they missed the stamp duty holiday.
Mr and Mrs P wrote to Nationwide about their complaint again on 2 September 2021, 
8 September 2021 and 1 November 2021. Nationwide acknowledged the complaint letters 
on 9 September 2021 and 10 November 2021. However, it was not until 19 November 2021 
it provided a substantive reply. It said that it and E hadnt caused any further delays since 
the previous final response letter in August 2021 as throughout that time it was waiting for 
Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors to provide documentation. Mr and Mrs P wrote to Nationwide 
complaining again in December 2021. They referred their complaint to this service a few 
days later. 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with Nationwides responses, especially as they didnt consider 
it had responded to some key aspects of their complaint. They provided an explanation of 
what had happened with the insurance. They confirmed that they had been told by 
Nationwide that, as the insurance for the new property was not to be with it, its solicitors 
would need to see a copy of the insurance policy that would be in place from exchange. 
They had then spoken to their existing insurer, which had said that the way forward was to 
simply transfer the existing policy to the new property from the date of exchange. 
When Nationwide had said that it needed to see the policy schedule for the new property, 
Mr and Mrs P had reverted to their insurer and asked if they could insure both properties for 
a short period. They had been told they could not insure both properties, one of which they 
didnt own or live in, but the insurer expressed the view that the agreement to transfer the 
existing policy to the new property should be sufficient for Nationwide. Due to Nationwides 
insistence, Mr and Mrs P provided a fictitious date for the exchange date, and the insurer 
issued a new policy document. However, as it turned out the fictitious date was optimistic, 
and they ended up insuring a property they didnt own and had no insurance on their existing 
property. They transferred the policy back to their existing property, but were living in their 
home without insurance for seven days. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and he recommended that it be upheld in 
part. He concluded that Nationwide had delayed the process for six weeks, it should have 
responded to Mr Ps letters that were received after it had issued its final response letter, 
and he recommended that the compensation payment be increased to £300. 
Nationwide accepted the investigators recommendation.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with the investigators conclusions. They said that the £300 
compensation was inadequate for the stress, worry and sleepless nights the problems 
caused and the long-term effect of the loss of £10,000. They remained unhappy about 
having had to make up a date for the exchange of contracts in order to obtain a certificate of 
insurance. Mr and Mrs P said that it was completely unacceptable to be forced to knowingly 
lie to the insurance company.  Mr and Mrs P expressed the view that the investigation into the complaint had been 
inadequate. They said that Nationwide had insisted on an insurance policy schedule being 
provided before it had even issued a mortgage offer and he believed it took the stance it did 
in order to blackmail them into taking a more expensive policy with it. Mr and Mrs P also 
suggested that there hadnt been delays on the part of his solicitors, but rather his solicitors 
hadnt received Es emails, as they had been incorrectly addressed. No evidence of this was 
provided. They asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have asked that they be reimbursed the amount of stamp duty they had to pay 
because the mortgage didnt complete before the end of June 2021. Nationwide has 
accepted that following the valuation being received, it and E caused delays the mortgage 
process. While there was an additional delay at the end of the process caused by E having 
not noticed the problem with the SHIP certificate when it was originally returned in June 
2021, that delay didnt happen until later in the process, and so couldnt have caused Mr and 
Mrs P to miss completing before the end of the stamp duty holiday at the end of June 2021.
The delay caused by Nationwide and E amounted to around three weeks. At that point 
Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors had already been sent the initial pack by E setting out the 
information and forms that needed to be provided/completed. As is normal in conveyancing, 
while copies of the documentation can be used to progress a mortgage, the original signed 
documents have to be provided to a lenders solicitor before completion can be agreed. The 
original of some of the required documents werent received, despite E reminding 
Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors of this requirement during the process, until August 2021. As such, 
even if the delays Nationwide was responsible for in the early stages of the process hadnt 
happened, I am not persuaded that the mortgage would have completed by the end of 
June 2021. As such, I cant reasonably conclude that Nationwide is responsible for the fact 
that Mr and Mrs P had to pay stamp duty on their purchase. 
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that their letters questioning what was happening and raising 
their concerns were not responded to. As our investigator pointed out there were four letters 
sent to Nationwide following the first final response letter, which were not responded to at all 
or only partially in the second final response. That could only be considered to be poor 
service and I will be factoring that in when considering compensation later in this decision. 
In relation to the insurance certificate, I would confirm that it is necessary for a consumer to 
insure a property they are buying from the date of exchange, as Mr and Mrs P have 
confirmed they understood. It is also normal for a purchaser to provide an insurer with a 
hypothetical exchange date when arranging the necessary cover, and for this to be adjusted 
as necessary as matters progress. While I have noted what Mr and Mrs P have told us about 
their conversations with their insurer, I would confirm that insurers are aware that exchange 
dates are often soft dates when a policy is first proposed and that it is not unusual for start 
dates for policies to change, sometimes more than once. While Mr P was clearly 
uncomfortable in giving a date to his insurer that was not definite, I dont consider that 
Nationwide was wrong to explain the general process for such arrangements being made. 
Mr and Mrs P have explained that their insurer suggested to them that they not take out a 
separate buildings insurance policy for the new property, but to simply transfer their existing 
policy to the new one. Theyve told us that this resulted in them insuring the new property 
before exchange and having no insurance on their existing home. As this suggestion was given by a third party, that party would be responsible for any upset or worry that situation 
caused Mr and Mrs P. The same principal applies to any delays during the mortgage 
process caused by parties other than Nationwide or its representatives. 
The delays Nationwide is responsible for clearly caused Mr and Mrs P stress and 
inconvenience. However, as I have said above, the initial delays caused didnt extend the 
time it took for the mortgage to complete. Only the issue relating to E not having obtained 
the correct SHIP certificate from Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors at the end of the process added to 
the time it took to complete the mortgage. In addition, there was also poor communication 
and poor service provided to Mr and Mrs P during the process. I know that Mr and Mrs P 
wont be satisfied with my award, but I would like to assure than that I have thought carefully 
about the amount of compensation that should be awarded, having taken Mr and Mrs Ps 
comments into account. I am satisfied that the total of £300 (including that which Nationwide 
had already offered) is the appropriate amount in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mr and Mrs P a total of £300 (including the sum it previously offered) 
compensation for the delays it was responsible for in the process of their mortgage being 
advanced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman