The complaint
Miss A complains Santander UK plc (Santander) sent her the incorrect Personal 
Identification Numbers (PIN) for her bank card, which meant she was unable to use her bank 
account for over a month.
What happened     
Miss A has a basic account with Santander and says she experienced issues accessing her 
account either online or by using her account cards because she had been sent the wrong 
PIN details. This meant she was unable to use the account and this caused her considerable 
inconvenience. Miss A asked for compensation and was offered £25 as a gesture of 
goodwill, which she felt wasnt sufficient given what she had gone through. 
Santander had said they had sent two sets of cards and PIN to the address confirmed by 
Miss A and had done nothing wrong. It also said, until the complaint was lodged the account 
hadnt seen any transactions, suggesting it wasnt her main account.  Miss A disagreed and 
asked for the case to be referred to this service.
The investigator obtained the information needed to look into the complaint but didnt uphold, 
saying the account opening cards and replacement cards requested by Miss A were sent to 
the address provided by Miss A. The investigator also felt the account hadnt shown it was 
being used for day to day expenses until a month after opening it. The investigator felt that 
Santander had done nothing wrong. Miss A didnt agree and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have come to the same outcome as the investigator but for different reasons and I will 
explain why I have come to my decision.
I can understand it has been stressful for Miss A trying to access her account and not being 
able to do so. So when looking at this case Ive tried to establish whether Santander had 
been at fault when they sent the cards and PIN to Miss A, so she could operate the account. 
It is important to understand the sequence of events during the time the cards and PIN were 
sent to Miss A. 
Miss A opened the account in May 2019 at which time cards and PIN were sent to the 
address on record provided by Miss A, when she initially opened the account. During this 
time Royal Mail had returned post to Santander and as a result a returned mail block was 
put onto the account. 
DRN-1984153In June 2019 Miss A visited a branch of Santander to verify her address to remove the mail 
block and requested new cards, PIN and online banking security details. Later that month 
she deposited funds to the account. Following phone calls to Santander in July Miss A 
confirmed receipt of the PIN for the original cards sent in May and also the new cards 
requested in June.
Santander explained the cards and PIN had been sent to the address on file but as a 
gesture of goodwill offered £25 for any inconvenience and ordered a new set of PIN and 
online bank security to Miss A. In August mail was returned by Royal Mail and this again 
resulted in a returned mail block on the account by Santander. 
It is important to understand that cards and PIN are sent separately by all banks including 
Santander for security purposes. From the information that has been made available to me, 
the cards and PIN were sent to the address provided by Miss A when she opened the 
account. The same address was also verified by Miss A in a phone call to Santander in July 
and in an email to this service when the investigator asked for this to be clarified. 
I have checked the address and postcode and the address has various occupants. Miss A in 
a phone call to this service did say her postcode had changed since she first moved there 
and the letter D was added to the door number to identify her property. She went on to say 
that Royal Mail and the postman were aware of this and it wasnt a problem. 
From my investigation and that of the investigators, I cant see the address given to 
Santander had the letter D added to the address.  I feel that in all likelihood the address 
details are the cause of confusion and not that Santander have sent cards and PIN to the 
incorrect address. It may well be that the vast majority of the time Miss A had no issues with 
her post but, in all probability , the fact she did not receive  the correct cards and PIN  is 
because some of her post had been returned by Royal Mail. I cant see that Santander is at 
fault because of the action taken by Royal Mail. 
Santander , like all banks, protect their customers card and PIN, so blocking the account and 
then releasing the cards to the address verified by the customer is what I would expect to 
see here. On balance, I am satisfied the cards and PIN have been sent out to the address 
provided by Miss A.
I do understand Miss As frustration but there was some confusion with her previous  
address details and the arrangements with Royal Mail, which I am pleased to learn has now 
been resolved since her recent move. I am satisfied the goodwill gesture of £25 was 
sufficient as I cant see that Santander have done anything wrong here.
I understand Miss A will be disappointed with my decision but I wont be asking Santander to 
do anymore.
Neither Miss A or Santander responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I gave both Miss A and Santander until 4th July 2020 to accept or reject to my provisional 
decision, but as I have heard nothing further from either I see no need to change or add to 
this and so my final decision remains the same.My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Barry White
Ombudsman