DRN-2930573
The complaint
Mr H complains about issues with a car supplied under an agreement with LeasePlan UK 
Limited.  
What happened
In January 2019 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with LeasePlan. At the point of supply the car was brand new. The total sum payable under 
the agreement was £82,155.34 over a term of 48 months. 
Mr H experienced repeated issues with the infotainments system. He also experienced 
issues with the heating controls, parking sensors and camera. The internal trim also failed, 
causing a persistent rattle.
Mr H returned the car to the dealership several times for diagnostics and repairs. The 
dealership attempted repirs by updating the software, but the issues werent resolved.
Mr H complained to LeasePlan and asked to reject the car. It declined, but offered a refund 
of 1 months rental as a goodwill gesture.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think the car was of satisfactory 
quality when supplied and said that because attempts at repair had failed, Mr H should be 
allowed to reject the car. the investigator also said  that Mr H should receive a 5% refund of 
rental payments and compensation.
Mr H said he agreed but LeasePlan said it was reviewing the case and didnt accept the view 
so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because LeasePlan supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
I would expect a brand new car  such as that supplied to Mr H  to be of a very high 
standard and to be free from minor defects. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months of the point 
of supply, theres a presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and 
its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity 
to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 
months , the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
LeasePlan has only provided limited information about the repair history and warranty claims 
relating to the car. Despite the limited information, its clear that the car has been returned to 
the dealership several times, and that there have been attempts at repair which havent been 
successful. The job cards supplied show that the car has been repaired several times.
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that there is a fault with the car. I dont think a  
reasonable person would expect to experience repeated faults like this with a  brand new, 
prestige car. Taking everything into account, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply for reasons of durability. Im satisfied that the dealers attempts at repair 
have been unsuccessful . Under the relevant legislation, Mr H should be allowed to reject the 
car.
Putting things right
To put things right, LeasePlan must allow Mr H to reject the car.
I can see that the issues with the car have affected Mr Hs use and enjoyment of it. 
Therefore, I think its reasonable to ask LeasePlan to recognise this loss of enjoyment by 
refunding 5% of the rental payments made by Mr H.
I can also see that Mr H has been inconvenienced by the number of times hes had to take 
the car back to the dealership for diagnostics and repairs. I think LeasePlan should 
compensate Mr H for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. LeasePlan UK Limited must:
- End the agreement with nothing further to pay
- Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr H
- Refund the deposit of £10,000 and pay simple interest of 8% per annum from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
- Refund 5% of the rental payments made by Mr H and pay simple interest of 8% per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement
- Pay compensation of £350 for trouble and upset
- Remove the agreement from Mr Hs credit file  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman