DRN-1697610
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc blocked transactions.
What happened
Mr H says he tried to make a balance transfer but Santander blocked the transactions 
despite him using his security credentials and the One Time Passcode (OTP) he was given. 
He says Santander's fraud detections system is incompetent. And was caused 
inconvenience by what took place, and would like compensation for this. He also says 
Santander didn't contact him about the blocks and didn't take into account similar recent 
transactions that were successful.
Santander says it acted in line with its account terms and conditions by blocking the 
transactions where it had security concerns. It says it doesn't take into account previous 
similar transactions and it doesn't matter if an OTP was used. Santander says it did make 
attempts to speak to Mr H.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander had acted in line with account terms and conditions, and also thought it 
had attempted to speak to Mr H. The investigator asked Santander for more information 
about the exact reason for the account block but Santander was unable to say anymore than 
it had done.
Mr H doesn't accept that view and says he asked that our position was not that all fraud 
detection systems work, even if they produce the wrong result as in this case where there is 
incompetent design. He says the context of the transaction has not been considered and 
would like Santander to be compelled to provide the reason for the transaction blocks. Mr H 
accepts Santander may have tried to contact him but says that is not the key part of his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I appreciate how strongly Mr H feels 
about what took place and confirm I have carefully read his detailed submissions to us.
I have looked at Santander's account terms and conditions which I think Mr H would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that a transaction 
may not be completed if Santander suspect fraud. There is no dispute here that Santander's 
fraud detection system did suspect fraud, and so I don't think it made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by blocking the transactions. I'm satisfied its actions were in line with those account 
terms and conditions.
Mr H will be aware that fraud is a major problem for banks, building societies and customers. And we would expect a business to have in place systems to protect its customers money. 
But I accept on occasions legitimate transactions such as these are flagged up as fraud and 
blocked. I also accept in those circumstances customers are caused inconvenience, but I 
don't think that means as in this case, Santander made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I appreciate Mr H would like to know the reason for the block and if we have the power to 
ask for that exact reason. I'm satisfied that Santander has told us that it can't provide any 
more information than it has already done. So I think there is little point asking it again for 
information it has told us it doesn't have. I can't fairly make an order that it provide that 
information to Mr H as that would be pointless in these circumstances. I also think it likely 
that such information even if it was available would be commercially sensitive.
It is not our role to comment on Santander's fraud and security systems either positively or 
negatively. We are not Santander's regulator and it is not our role to sanction or punish a 
business as Mr H suggests. And I can't fairly tell Santander how it should operate its security 
and fraud measures or ask it to consider previous account activity as Mr H suggests. I'm 
satisfied such matters are for a business to decide upon when exercising its commercial 
judgement.
I'm satisfied having looked at Santander's records that on balance it tried to speak to Mr H. I 
appreciate Mr H says that was possible, but that is not the main part of his complaint in any 
event.
I accept that Mr H will have unanswered questions about the exact reason why his 
transactions were blocked. I'm sorry that we can't answer those questions for him or compel 
Santander to answer them. I'm satisfied this brings an end to what we, in trying to sort out 
this complaint informally, can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman