DRN-1285908
 
The complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax.  
What happened 
In 2000, Halifax sold Mr B a monthly premium PPI policy to protect his mortgage repayments 
if he was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr B disagreed, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available from 2000, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. But, where Mr B says the PPI was sold in a meeting, Halifax has 
provided evidence to show it was sold over the phone. 
Unfortunately, there are no longer any call recordings or scripts that might show how any 
discussions about PPI went. But, without persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise, I cant 
fairly say that Mr B wasnt made aware he was being sold PPI or that he had a choice about 
taking it. On balance, I find it just as likely as anything else that the PPI was only added after 
Mr B agreed to have it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr B. That meant, among other things, Halifax 
needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for him. Regardless of what steps it took, 
I think the PPI it recommended was right for him in any case. 
For example, from the policy terms and from what I know of Mr Bs circumstances at the 
time, it seems he was eligible for the cover. This policy didnt exclude claims for pre-existing 
medical conditions and I cant see that Mr B was significantly affected by any of the other 
main things the policy excluded or limited cover for.
Mr B says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer for a time. But the PPI 
benefits potentially paid out on top of that, and for considerably longer, at up to 24 months 
per claim. It covered him for unemployment too. Considering that Mr B had just entered into 
a long-term financial commitment that was secured against his home, I think it likely hed 
have valued the extra protection the PPI provided. Further, Ive no reason to think the PPI premium wasnt affordable for Mr B. And the PPI was 
flexible in that Mr B could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he felt it was 
no longer suitable for him.
Halifax also needed to give Mr B enough information about the PPI to allow him to decide for 
himself if it was right for him. I think its possible that the information it gave him could have 
been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable 
for him, I dont think that better information would have affected his decision to take it. I think 
hed still have thought it provided useful benefits at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Bs lost out because of how Halifax sold 
the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman