DRN-3364682
The complaint
Mr G complains Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money (Virgin)  wont refund a 
payment he made using his credit card account for a holiday that was cancelled due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr G paid a deposit of £411.16 to book a holiday villa from a 
company Ill call Business A. He paid a further £1,644.64 in March 2020. He used his 
Virgin credit card account to make both payments.
Mr G called Business A on 16 March 2020 and then cancelled the holiday by email 
on 17 March 2020 because of all the restrictions over the present pandemic.
Business A initially refused to refund any money. It told Mr G it had already paid the 
owner of the villa and he or she wasnt required to refund the money.
Mr G contacted Virgin in April 2020. He asked it to refund the money as a 
chargeback by completing the appropriate form.
Virgin wrote to Mr G on 10 July 2020 to say there was no basis for a valid claim 
under the Mastercard chargeback scheme as hed cancelled the booking knowing 
there was a force majeure clause in the terms and conditions at the time of booking. 
It also said it had considered his claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and simply said it couldnt progress a section 75 claim 
without saying why.
Business A subsequently emailed Mr G on 19 July 2020. It offered to refund the total 
amount paid less the deposit of £411.16 as a gesture of goodwill. It said it was its 
full and final offer. Mr G replied by email on the same day. He accepted the offer, 
which he described as very generous, and said he was happy to bring the matter to 
a conclusion after all this time of uncertainty.
Virgin wrote to Mr G again on 30 July 2020 in response to a complaint Mr G had 
made about its handling of his claim. It accepted that it should have explained why it 
had effectively declined a claim under section 75 of the CCA. It went on to explain 
that this sort of claim requires a misrepresentation or breach of contract by 
Business A and there was no evidence of either. Mr G also complained about the 
tone of the letter dated 10 July 2020 and the fact that it was delivered to the wrong 
address. Virgin offered Mr G £100 to apologise for the shortcomings of this letter.
Unhappy with Virgins response regarding his claim, Mr G referred his complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators didnt think Virgins decision not to attempt a chargeback 
claim or refund the money under section 75 of the CCA was unfair in the 
circumstances, and that £100 was fair compensation for any mistakes it had made.
Mr G disagrees with the investigators conclusions and has asked that an 
ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr G first contacted Virgin, it considered both a chargeback claim and a claim under 
section 75 of the CCA.
A chargeback is a way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from the retailers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or service he paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Mastercard  
and a strict criteria and time limits apply.
The card provider isnt required to raise a chargeback claim just because the consumer asks 
it to  although I think its good practice for one to be attempted when theres a reasonable 
prospect of success.
Separately, section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on 
credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the credit provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
As Ive explained above, Virgin chose not to attempt a chargeback claim because Mr G 
cancelled the booking knowing there was a force majeure clause in the terms and 
conditions.
The relevant terms and conditions say:
A deposit of 20% of the total rental cost is required and is non-refundable in the event 
of cancellation.
All cancellations will result in the loss of all monies paid to Business A.
Business A does not accept responsibility for any cancellation caused by any one of 
a number of extraordinary or unavoidable events, or similar events beyond [its] 
control. (This clause is often referred to as force majeure clause.)
Ive carefully considered Mastercards rules. 
Mr G cancelled the contract on 17 March 2020. While I appreciate that holiday rental 
properties were later closed under local law, when Mr G cancelled the contract, the supplier 
was, at that time, able to provide the service. Alongside its detailed rules, Mastercard 
helpfully issued guidance during the pandemic. The guidance it issued at the start of 
April 2020 makes it clear that there is no chargeback right if the cardholder chose not to use 
an available service following precautionary advice or to avoid mandated quarantines upon 
arrival, or the cardholder could not use an available service because of travel restrictions, 
etc. And in reference to force majeure clauses, the same guidance says Mastercard will 
honour merchant terms and conditions properly disclosed to the cardholder. In the 
circumstances, and given the applicable terms and conditions, I dont think it was unfair for 
Virgin not to attempt a chargeback.
Similarly, there doesnt appear to have been a breach of contract by Busines A. On the 
contrary, its now refunded £1,644.64 despite the terms and conditions saying all 
cancellations will result in the loss of all monies paid to Business A. As there was no breach 
of contract, I dont think it was unfair for Virgin to decline Mr Gs claim under section 75 of 
the CCA. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr G. His decision to cancel his holiday when he did was 
eminently sensible and responsible, and hes out of pocket through no fault of his own. 
However, I dont think Virgins decision not to attempt a chargeback claim or refund the 
money under section 75 of the CCA was unfair for the reasons Ive explained.I agree with Mr G that Virgin could have explained its decision better in its letter dated 
10 July 2020. Im pleased to see its apologised and paid Mr G £100 for any inconvenience 
caused. In the circumstances, I think thats fair and I dont think it needs to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman