DRN-3325777
The complaint
X complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) caused him significant distress and inconvenience when they reported inaccurate 
information about him to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint X, but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
BPF agree that they provided inaccurate information to the credit reference agencies and 
theyve offered £500 to compensate X for the distress and inconvenience that error caused.
X doesnt think thats sufficient. Hes explained that he was rejected for a mortgage because 
the credit file was wrong and that he therefore missed out on the property he wanted to buy. 
He also explained that property prices had increased and that hed now have to pay more for 
a similar property. He said hed paid an arrangement fee to the mortgage company that 
would not be returned to him, and that hed missed out on the stamp duty holiday that closed 
shortly after his mortgage offer was rejected. Hes also upset that hell now have to make 
further lengthy trips to find another property and hes explained that hes spent in excess of 
30 hours dealing with the issue that he wanted compensating for.
I can understand Xs frustration here particularly as BPF failed to acknowledge their error 
initially. I accept that its likely the mortgage application wasnt approved because of the 
mistaken information that had been recorded on Xs credit file and I therefore think it would 
be fair for BPF to refund the arrangement fee of £125. 
I dont think it would be fair to suggest the reason X didnt buy the house was because of the 
failed mortgage application. There could have been other reasons why a sale proved 
unsuccessful, for example, if there was adverse information reported in the survey, or if the 
seller pulled out. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell BPF to compensate X for the loss of 
the house. Im also not persuaded to ask BPF to compensate for any increased costs 
associated with the closure of the stamp duty holiday, the buoyant housing market, or 
additional travel costs. Thats because theres no guarantee the house sale would have 
completed, and X may then have been subject to stamp duty and/or inflated prices and 
additional trips, anyway.
I can understand that it would have taken a long time for X to resolve this matter with BPF 
and that in the meantime he would have been concerned about the impact the erroneous 
entry was having on his credit file. I dont think it would be fair to suggest BPF should refund 
X at his hourly work rate, for the hours he spent on calls and writing letters. X wasnt working 
in his professional role when he was making those queries and its only in that professional 
role that I could fairly say he attracts the hourly rate. Its not this services usual practice to 
reimburse based on an hourly rate. Instead we look at the total distress and inconvenience 
that has been caused. Our approach to this is set out on our website and having considered 
the circumstances of Xs complaint Im persuaded that £500 is sufficient compensation here.
Putting things right
Im asking BPF to pay X £500 in addition to the £100 they have already paid him. Theyll 
also need to refund the mortgage arrangement fee and ensure entries to Xs credit file are 
accurate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to:
Ensure any address links to the incorrect address (listed in the investigators view of 
20 January 2022 but omitted here to ensure confidentiality of this published decision) 
are removed from Xs credit file with all credit reference agencies that BPF report to.
Pay a further £500 compensation, on top of the £100 already paid  if the initial £100
cheque wasnt cashed the business should pay £600 in total.
Pay X £125 to cover the arrangement fee that he paid to his mortgage provider.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman