DRN-3878852
The complaint
Miss L has complained about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
have handled a claim she made, under her building and contents insurance policy, for 
damage to her laptop.
What happened
Miss L took out a buildings and contents insurance policy with Lloyds in June 2020, which 
provided cover for accidental damage to her contents. 
At the end of June 2021, Miss L accidentally damaged her laptop, resulting in a cracked 
screen. Her claim for accidental damage was accepted and her laptop was repaired and 
returned to her by November 2021. 
However, Miss L was unhappy with the repairs and returned her laptop for a further warranty 
repair. At that time, the repairers couldnt identify any faults with the laptop that would be 
covered by the policy, including in relation to the microphone. However, on re-running tests 
later in January they found the system was slow so suggested it could be software related. 
Lloyds says that following Miss L giving her permission for the hard drive to be wiped, the 
repairers did that and reinstalled a new copy of the operating system.
In March 2022, Miss L reported a fault with the microphone on her laptop. She provided a 
report which seemed to confirm the fault; however, the repairers could find no record of any 
tests being carried out. Miss L believes the microphone was either broken when the repair 
was carried out, or a faulty microphone was installed on her laptop.
To resolve Miss Ls complaint, Lloyds offered to consider a full report from the manufacturer 
demonstrating that tests had been conducted which located a fault. 
Miss L said that the whole process has affected her mental health and her personal and 
work life as shes been stressed by Lloyds handling of the claim and shes been unable to 
work efficiently and fully participate in a course she was enrolled in. Miss L said she paid for 
a service which hasnt been provided, and after sending her laptop to be fixed, it came back 
with additional faults. Miss L would like to be fully compensated with a new laptop and 
compensation for the distress it has caused her.
After considering her complaint about the way the claim had been handled, Lloyds offered 
Miss L £150 for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered due to the time taken to 
resolve her claim.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued a view partially upholding the 
complaint, in October 2022. She said that she didnt think Lloyds needed to provide Miss L 
with a replacement laptop to fairly settle her claim. However, she concluded, on balance, 
that the issue with the microphone may have happened while repairs were being carried out 
to the screen, or at the time the screen was damaged. Our investigator recommended that a 
fair resolution to Miss Ls complaint would be for Lloyds to cover the reasonable costs of 
repairing the microphone, carried out by a repairer of Miss Ls choice.
Lloyds accepted our investigators view, on the basis that the repairer Miss L chose was a 
manufacturer-approved repairer. However, Miss L didnt accept the view and requested an 
ombudsmans decision on her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for the same reasons. 
I will explain why.
There are two key issues in dispute. The first, is whether Miss L gave her permission for the 
hard drive to be wiped. The second is whether the microphone on Miss Ls laptop was 
damaged during the initial repair.
Where the evidence is inconsistent, or contradictory as it is here, I make my decision based 
on what I think more likely than not happened. Having considered all of the evidence from 
Miss L and Lloyds, I think it likely that Miss L did agree that the hard drive could be wiped, so 
I wont be requiring Lloyds to take any action in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
However, with regard to the microphone, as our investigator explained, the evidence 
provided by Miss L, including the report from the manufacturer, confirms the microphone 
was damaged. And while its not clear whether it was damaged when the accident 
happened, or when the repair was carried out, the damage ought reasonably to be covered 
by the policy. So, on receipt of an invoice from Miss L, for the reasonable costs to repair the 
damaged microphone, by a repairer approved by the manufacturer, Lloyds should reimburse 
those costs to Miss L.
Ive also considered the distress Miss L was caused by the way Lloyds handled her claim. 
And while I can see it was a stressful and difficult time for her, I think the £150 offered by 
Lloyds reasonably compensates Miss L for that distress and upset.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above I uphold this claim in part and require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Miss Ls reasonable costs of having the microphone on her laptop 
repaired by a manufacturer-approved repairer, on receipt of an invoice for those 
costs; and
Pay the £150 it offered to Miss L to compensate her for the distress and upset shes 
been caused by its handling of the claim (if it hasnt already paid that compensation 
to her).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to pay the awards detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman