DRN-1952396
The complaint
Mr B has complained about QEC Europe Ltds decision to reject a claim he made under his 
joint home insurance policy with Miss W.
For the purpose of my decision all reference to the insurer QEC includes its agents.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr B reported damage to his property which was discovered while they 
were having a new bathroom fitted. Based on what Mr B said, QEC said the cause of the 
damage wasnt as a result of an insured event. However, Mr B and Miss W had a separate 
Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) policy. So the broker said Mr B could claim against that 
policy, which Mr B did. He has made a separate complaint about that. It doesnt form part of 
my decision about his claim against his home insurance policy.
Mr B complained about QECs decision to reject his claim. Our investigator initially thought 
QEC had acted reasonably as the cause of the damage appeared to be structural due to 
works carried out by the previous owners. 
In response Mr B said he wasnt sure as to the cause of the damage  it might have been 
subsidence for example  but he felt QEC hadnt fairly considered his claim under this policy 
and rejected his claim too hastily. 
Our investigator listened to a recording of the notification call and thought QEC should have 
instructed a Surveyor to inspect the damage to the property before rejecting the claim. So 
she recommended QEC do this. 
However, in response Mr B told us that hes since had the works repaired at their own cost. 
Theyd had to move out for a year and couldnt continue any longer with their home in the 
condition it was in. So this meant it wasnt possible to view the original damage.  
QEC disagreed with the investigators second view. Based on the description of the damage 
by Mr B, QEC said it wasnt an insured event. So it had acted correctly in not instructing a 
surveyor to visit the property. 
Our investigator issued a third view. She considered what would most likely have happened 
if QEC had instructed a Surveyor. She thought on balance it was unlikely that the claim 
would have been valid as an insured event covered under the policy. 
Mr B didnt agree. He believes QEC should have properly investigated his claim under the 
home insurance policy. He says its still not known if a wall had been removed by the 
previous owners. But the back wall had dropped by three inches which Mr B said could have 
been due to subsidence. He said if QEC had instructed a Surveyor, they would have known 
what the cause of the damage was. 
Our recommendation to have the property inspected was a year and a half after Mr B 
reported the incident to QEC. Mr B said he couldnt reasonably be expected to wait to have 
his house repaired for so long  while paying bills but not living there. So they were forced to 
repair the home at their own expense. 
I asked both parties for a copy of an engineers report if available  as Mr B told QEC he was 
obtaining one in December 2018. 
QEC has provided a copy of the structural engineers report Mr B sent to it, which Ive 
reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies are intended to provide cover for specified perils, rather than for anything 
that might happen to a property. These perils include events such as fire, theft, or 
subsidence. Anything outside of listed perils is an uninsured loss and so wouldnt be covered 
by the policy.
Our role is to look at whether an insurer acted reasonably and in line with the policy. I 
understand Mr Bs strength of feeling as to how long its taken to reach this stage. And I 
know Mr B wants us to deal with both complaints as one. But my decision relates to the 
cover provided under his home insurance policy. As his LEI policy is a separate policy, it 
must be dealt with as a separate complaint and decision. So I cannot make a finding in 
relation to his LEI policy here. 
From the information Mr B gave QEC when he first reported the damage, I dont think its 
likely that the claim would have been covered as an insurable event even if QEC had 
instructed a Surveyor. I understand Mr B doesnt agree, but there are a few key points during 
the call which I think were reasonable for QEC to take into account. 
Mr B said hed stripped the bathroom back and noticed that the floor was slanting and 
sinking toward the middle. There was a plasterboard wall between the bathroom and a 
bedroom. The bedroom floor was also sinking toward the middle. 
Hed discussed the problem with neighbours who told him they believed the previous owners 
had removed a supporting wall. He asked his friend to come over  who was a builder  and 
he said it looked like a supporting wall had been removed without a suitable joist being put in 
place. His friend advised him to contact his insurer and said a professional would need to 
come and look at the property to assess the damage. 
Mr B said he and Miss W had moved into the property two years before. A homebuyers 
report had been completed but there were no concerns raised. 
The agent at QEC relayed Mr Bs circumstances to a manager to check which was the best 
way to deal with his enquiry. She explained that the damage wouldnt be covered under their 
home insurance policy as no insurable peril had occurred. i.e. a one off event. Mr B asked 
why the removal of a structural wall wouldnt be covered. The agent explained this wouldnt 
be covered because it happened before he bought the policy. Mr B was then passed to an 
agent to set up a claim under their LEI policy.Mr B has had the damage repaired. So it isnt possible for the original damage to be 
inspected. I completely understand why Mr B made this decision due to the length of time his 
property was left needing repair. 
Mr B obtained an engineers report to support his claim under the LEI policy following an 
inspection of his property in December 2018. This has been helpful in addition to the 
information Mr B gave when he reported the incident for me to decide if  on balance  his 
claim might have been covered as an insurable event if QEC had instructed a Surveyor at 
the time. 
The engineer concluded that the cause of damage was due to insufficient support created by 
openings in the kitchen and inadequate installation of floor joists.
I understand Mr B will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think QECs 
decision not to instruct a Surveyor for a claim against his home insurance policy was 
unreasonable or made any difference to the outcome. From the information available, Mr Bs 
claim isnt one that was covered under this policy as an insured event. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman