DRN-3222782
The complaint
Miss A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions that she didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Miss A has explained that when she tried to pay for lunch, her card was declined and after 
checking her online banking, she noticed several payments had left her account earlier that 
morning. She didnt recognise the recipient of the payments and notified Lloyds about the 
transactions. Miss A also noticed that shed received a text message from Lloyds earlier that 
morning whilst she was asleep. The text message advised that her phone number had been 
changed and if this was incorrect, she should let Lloyds know.
By the time that Miss A noticed the message, her account had almost been emptied, with the 
majority of the payments using up her available overdraft. Miss A asked Lloyds for a refund 
because she believed her account had been used by someone else without her authority. 
Miss A confirmed that she hadnt given any of her security details to anyone else and that at 
the time of these transactions, she was alone in her flat. She also confirmed that she hadnt 
answered any suspicious messages or allowed anyone else to operate her account.
Lloyds looked into the situation and thought that Miss A was responsible for making the 
payments herself because there was no evidence of any compromise of her security 
information needed to access her online banking. They also looked at the IP address data 
related to the usage of her online and mobile banking which showed a matching address for 
both Miss As legitimate banking activity and the suspect logons to her account.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the services.
Miss A reported the incident to Action Fraud and complained to Lloyds. During the complaint 
process Miss A told Lloyds that she may have given her phone to someone at a party to take 
a picture with. This happened a week or two prior to the disputed transactions. Miss A later 
confirmed that some online banking details were recorded on the phone but in another 
language, although her password and username wasnt recorded.  After Lloyds considered 
the circumstances, they didnt change their position. Miss A then brought her complaint to 
our service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who 
asked for further information from Miss A.
Miss A said that shed first logged on around lunchtime when she noticed her account was 
almost empty and that was when she called the bank. Miss A said that Lloyds didnt want to 
listen to her side of the story, and she confirmed that the details needed to access her online 
banking werent available to anyone but herself. She thought she was alone when the 
disputed transactions happened. Miss A said her laptop and phone were security protected 
and she was genuinely at a loss how someone had managed to get into her account. Miss A 
remembered leaving her laptop open in the library, but this was quite some time ago. Miss A 
was concerned that Lloyds allowed her mobile number to be changed without first getting 
her authority.
Our investigator thought Miss As version of events had changed since she brought the 
complaint to our service and there wasnt a logon to her online or mobile banking for several 
hours after Miss A said shed noticed her account was almost emptied. There wasnt a point 
of compromise identified that could explain how someone other than Miss A could have 
logged on to her banking. Overall, our investigator thought Miss A was responsible for the 
transactions and didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss A, through her representative, disagreed and continued to raise the issue that Miss As 
phone number could be changed without her specific authority. It was speculated that her 
account was hacked or that Lloyds employees could have been involved. Miss A wanted to 
know why Lloyds hadnt pursued the recipient of the funds.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Lloyds can hold Miss A liable for 
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made 
them or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Lloyds have supplied evidence that 
shows the new payee was set up and the payments authorised using Lloyds online banking. 
Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Lloyds and Miss A agreed to operate the account to allow 
Lloyds to make payments on Miss As behalf. For example, Lloyds terms and conditions set 
out that if a payment is arranged through mobile/internet banking and the account holder 
uses their security details to confirm the payment, then Lloyds accept that the instruction to 
make the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because Miss As online banking 
was correctly logged into using her security information and the payments confirmed - Im 
satisfied that consent was given and the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there 
are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Lloyds to hold Miss A responsible, for 
example if her online banking was used without her permission.
Miss A told our investigator that she first noticed a problem when her debit card was 
declined around lunch time, which prompted her to check her online banking. Miss A went 
on to explain that she then called Lloyds about the problem. Lloyds audit records show when 
Miss As online and mobile banking were used and theres no record of any check of the 
systems until several hours later that day. Lloyds records show that Miss A first called them 
that evening, which was a few hours after logging in to her banking app, rather than around 
lunch time.
The audit from Lloyds also lists the IP address data linked to the users activity. What this 
means in practice is that the addresses can show a location where the user was operating 
their device from or another location linked to the supplier of the online based activity. So, it 
doesnt necessarily relate to where the person is. Whats relevant here is that the same IP 
address is used by whoever logged on to the account early in the morning and sent the 
disputed payments as that used by Miss A when she checked her mobile banking app later 
that afternoon.The conclusion Id draw from this information is that the same location was used on both 
occasions when Miss As online and mobile banking were accessed. It seems unlikely that 
an unauthorised third party would be able to access the same IP address as Miss A. When 
Miss A spoke with our investigator she confirmed the security surrounding her login details 
and that no one else had access to her phone or laptop. Ive also thought about what Miss A 
said to Lloyds during her complaint, that shed given her phone to someone to take a picture 
with. Miss A had some banking information on her phone which was recorded in a different 
language, although I dont think its plausible that whoever took the picture could obtain 
these details from within the phone and then access her online banking. I say that because 
Miss A confirmed some of the necessary detail needed to login wasnt recorded on her 
phone.
Whilst I appreciate Miss A has said shes genuinely unaware how this happened, an 
objective assessment of the evidence shows it was unlikely to be anyone else who had 
access to her information and could use the same IP addresses to access her account and 
then check it later that same day.
Miss As representative speculated that it could be the result of a hack or that Lloyds staff 
were involved in her losses. I havent seen any evidence that would indicate this and the 
data that Lloyds have provided shows a consistent use of the same IP address. It was also 
suggested that spoofing of the IP address was responsible for the matching data.
Spoofing is changing information to make it appear as something else, often seen in scam 
cases where the account holder believes theyre talking to their bank because its the banks 
phone number that appears on their screen  when its been deliberately altered by the 
scammers. Whats been suggested here is that the IP address was spoofed to make it look 
like Miss As usual IP address was being used to make these transfers. Whilst Ive no doubt 
its technically possible to do that, Id question why someone would go to those lengths if 
theyd already gained access to Miss As account. It seems an unnecessary step for a 
fraudster to change the IP address to match Miss As. If the fraudster wanted to mask their 
own IP address, it would be a simple matter to do that. But, to first identify Miss As correct 
address and then manipulate the records to make it match Miss As seems unlikely.  
I also considered if the security information could have been taken from her laptop when she 
left it in the library, but as it was quite some time ago (approx. 2 years), I dont think this is 
the likely reason for the loss of the funds. A fraudster would be unlikely to wait for such a 
long time to use this information and Miss A hadnt recorded the password anywhere, so I 
dont think this is a realistic possibility for the losses.
Miss As representative suggested that she might have clicked on a link that led to someone 
being able to access her account. Miss A confirmed that she hadnt done this, and it wouldnt 
explain how someone would be able to get all the necessary detail required to log in to her 
account. Theres no evidence to support this as the explanation for how the transfers were 
made.  
Miss A repeatedly raised the issue of the text she received early in the morning when she 
said she was asleep. I understand the point being raised here  that the information 
shouldnt be able to be changed without confirmation from the account holder. But, in order 
for a phone number to be changed, the online account has first got to be logged into, which 
requires various pieces of security information which should only be known to the account 
holder. So, its not simply an issue of the receipt of a text before the number is changed, its 
after a series of security information is entered before this option can be used. Because the 
necessary security information wasnt available to anyone else, I dont think the text was as 
a result of an unauthorised third party accessing her account.Miss As representative wanted to understand why Lloyds hadnt conducted any enquiries 
with the receiving bank and having looked at the notes Lloyds sent to our service; they did 
follow up with the receiving bank about the transfers. The receiving bank notified Lloyds that 
the funds had been moved so Lloyds were unable to do anything further.
Lloyds accepted that theyd let Miss A down when shed reported the disputed transactions 
to them because they logged the complaint incorrectly which caused some delays. Miss A 
was also unhappy with how Lloyds dealt with her. Lloyds complaint notes record 
conversations with Miss A and there isnt any complaint made about how Miss A was dealt 
with  just that she didnt believe she was responsible for the disputed transactions. The 
calls werent available for me to listen to so I cant say what happened during them. Lloyds 
told Miss A that theyd make a payment of £50 to compensate her for the service she 
received. I think this was a reasonable way for them to deal with the situation and I wont be 
asking Lloyds to do anything further.
In summary Miss As account was used to make transfers to another account which she 
denies authorising. The evidence Ive examined shows that theres no plausible or likely 
explanation for the compromise of Miss As online banking details, her version of events isnt 
supported by Lloyds audit information and the IP address data indicates the disputed 
transactions occurred from the same location that Miss A also used to check her online 
account. So, taking everything into account, I think that Miss A was more likely than not 
responsible for making these transactions or allowing someone else to do them. I think it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to hold Miss A liable for the transactions and I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman