DRN-4340062
The complaint
Mrs P and Mrs P complain about AWP P&C SAs (AWP) handling of their claim under their 
home emergency insurance policy. 
For ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions taken, or comments made, by either of the 
policyholders as Mrs P. 
What happened
Mrs P says she noticed a leak coming from her bath, so she contacted AWP. Mrs P says a 
contractor came out and said the problem related to the overflow, but they werent able to 
carry out any repairs. Over the next few days Mrs P called AWP several times to find out 
what was happening, and she says she was given conflicting information. She says a claims 
handler told her theyd authorised a contractor to order the parts required but other claims 
handlers told her they couldnt send a contractor until she had arranged for her bath to be 
removed. The problem was then resolved by a contractor attending and resealing the bath. 
Mrs P complained as she felt things took too long to resolve and also about being given 
conflicting information. AWP responded and apologised for the delays experienced by Mrs 
P. They acknowledged Mrs P hadnt received the level of communication or speed of 
resolution she was entitled to expect. They said they could see the claim was now settled 
and offered Mrs P £50 compensation.   
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to   
Mrs P and Mrs P and AWP on 10 August 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:   
   
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs P. My role requires me to say how a 
complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The 
key facts about the complaint arent in dispute. AWP accept they got things wrong as 
Mrs P hadnt received the level of communication or speed of resolution she was 
entitled to expect. The only issue I have to decide is whether their offer of £50 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that AWP should compensate Mrs P for the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation should be, Ive looked at the errors by AWP and the impact it has had. 
AWP dont dispute theres been delay in settling the claim. Ive listened to call 
recordings between Mrs P and AWP which took place throughout the claim process. 
The incident which relates to this claim occurred on 23 January 2023. 
Mrs P calls AWP the following day to report the problem and the issue isnt resolved 
until 29 January. While this is five days after the report, I think there have been a 
number of errors here beyond just the delay acknowledged by AWP. 
I can see a contractor visited Mrs Ps home to deal with the leak. They removed the 
bath panel but werent able to resolve the issue. Mrs P calls on 25 January and 
explains the contractor told her the overflow appears to be causing the leak, but the 
bath will need to be removed to get to it. AWP explain theyll need to wait for the 
report to decide the next steps. The following day Mrs P calls for an update and also 
explains she has a young child and theyre unable to use the bath so she needs the 
issue to be resolved urgently. The call handler agrees to arrange for a manager to 
call Mrs P back within an hour. 
Having not heard back, Mrs P calls again a few hours later, and the call handler 
explains they still havent received the report. Mrs P calls again and the call handler 
discusses what the policy covers. They explain it only covers an emergency and they 
cant take any action until they know whether the issue is something thats covered 
by the policy. During this call Mrs P explains the bath panel had been removed by the 
contractor. The call handler agrees to contact their agent to chase the report. AWP 
then call Mrs P the same day, and explain theyve now spoken with the contractor 
company and the contractor has recommended trace and access work is required. 
The call handler explains theyve authorised them to get the parts and arrange a 
return visit. AWPs claim notes show a record later in the day which says the report 
has now come in and theyve authorised further works. 
On 27 January, AWP leave a message on Mrs Ps voicemail. The call handler 
explains theyve received the report, and this notes a faulty or leaking overflow or a 
bath reseal. They say if the overflow needs replacing or resealing, then the bath will 
need to come out. They say, because they dont know what the precise fault is, it will 
need trace and access work. They explain removal of the bath isnt covered under 
the home emergency policy so Mrs P will need to contact her home insurer for this. 
Mrs P calls AWP following the voicemail message. The call handler explains Mrs P 
needs to call her home insurer and ask them to remove her bath and to explain her 
home emergency insurer cant fix the problem until the bath is removed. Mrs P 
queries why AWP cant remove the bath as it should all be covered under her policy. 
The call handler explains they will just fix the problem if its a constant issue, but they 
wont remove the bath. Mrs P explains she has been given conflicting information 
and was previously told AWP had instructed a contractor to get the parts and arrange 
a visit. Mrs P makes three further calls the same day. 
During the first call, the call handler again explains trace and access work isnt 
covered by the policy and Mrs P again points out the bath panel has been removed. 
Its at this point the call handler raises queries and its established that access has 
already been gained to the overflow as a result of the contractor removing the bath 
panel. The call handler then agrees to contact their agent to explain the overflow is 
accessible. 
There are then two further phone conversations between Mrs P and AWP later the 
same day. During these calls, the call handlers still refer to previous details, even 
though the matter had since progressed. For example, a call handler explains Mrs P 
needs to arrange trace and access work even though it was established in a call 
earlier that day that access could be gained to the overflow.  
  
On 28 January, AWP make arrangements for another contractor to attend. A 
contractor then attends on 29 January and claim notes provided by AWP show the 
outcome of the contractors visit - the note says Bath seal was leaking, resealed. Job 
complete. A further claim note says, The works were never carried out as it went 
back and forth being approved then declined at both our end and [AWPs agent] 
end. The note also says AWP then referred the matter to another agent for a second 
opinion, and they managed to take 30 mins to fix the issue. The note says Mrs P would like to be reimbursed for the bath panel, which is now broken, particularly as 
the issue was not behind the bath panel and involved the sealant around the tap. 
Looking at the service provided to Mrs P, I think theres a number of errors here 
which have had an impact on Mrs P. Firstly, its clear Mrs P was upset about her bath 
being unusable and was anxious about getting the issue resolved urgently  so it was 
agreed a manager would return her call to see what could be done. A manager then 
didnt return Mrs Ps call, which led to Mrs P having to phone back to chase. Mrs P 
was also given conflicting information. Mrs P was told a contractor had been 
instructed to order parts and arrange a return visit. This, understandably, led Mrs P to 
believe repairs would be carried out to fix the leak. But the following day, Mrs P is 
informed AWP havent been able to establish the precise fault so she needs to 
arrange for the bath to be removed, and for trace and access work to be carried out, 
before their contractor can attend. Its clear from the conversations which followed, 
Mrs P was very upset and frustrated at being told repairs couldnt yet be carried out.  
I also believe AWP missed an opportunity to resolve the issue sooner. Mrs P makes 
it clear during the call on 26 January that the bath panel had been removed. I 
acknowledge AWP hadnt received the contractors report at this stage but, when Mrs 
P mentions the bath panel had been removed during the conversation on 27 
January, that led the call handler to ask questions and then establish that access 
could be gained to the overflow pipe. I cant see the circumstances changed in any 
significant way between these two phone calls, so I wouldve expected the call 
handler on 26 January to have followed the same line of questioning. And had they 
done so, I believe its reasonable to conclude they - just like the later call handler did 
 wouldve established that the overflow was accessible. I believe this wouldve 
avoided the need for Mrs P to make the further calls she did between these two calls. 
I also think Mrs P was caused frustration when call handlers werent taking into 
account any progress made in the claim. For example, the call handler still explaining 
trace and access work was required even though it had been established access 
could be gained to the overflow. 
 
I think there has been a further missed opportunity here  and this relates to the 
repair carried out. The first contractor removed the bath panel but then didnt carry 
out any repair work. In their report, the contractor notes a faulty or leaking overflow or 
a bath reseal  and they recommend trace and access to establish this. But, the 
contractor who then attended on 29 January, established the bath seal was leaking 
and resolved the issue by resealing it. 
The contractor is the expert here so, given that the second contractor identified the 
source of the problem and resolved it in 30 minutes, I think its reasonable to expect 
the first contractor should also have resolved the issue at the first visit. Im 
particularly persuaded by this on the basis that I havent been provided with any 
explanation for why it wasnt possible for the first contractor to have reached the 
same assessment as the second contractor  both were experts in the same field. 
Had this been done, this wouldve avoided the upset, frustration and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs P in having to make further calls to chase progress. 
Taking into account all the impact Ive identified, I dont think the £50 offered by AWP 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The next point Ive considered is Mrs Ps complaint involving her bath panel. This 
was removed by the first contractor, and I note Mrs P is upset this was left on her 
bathroom floor as AWP refused to refit this. The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps 
policy define Emergency repair and says it covers work carried out to resolve the 
immediate emergency, and this may involve a temporary repair or permanent repair. The definition goes further to describe what action AWP will take following a repair 
and says, but we will not be responsible for reinstating it to its original condition. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AWP to refuse to refit the bath panel. 
In relation to Mrs Ps concern about the bath panel being broken, I think AWP have 
made an error here. I cant see theres any dispute this was damaged while the first 
contractor removed it  and from a contemporaneous point of view, I can see this 
was mentioned by Mrs P in her early calls with AWP. I note AWP say the policy 
doesnt cover trace and access work which would include removing a bath panel. 
I agree trace and access work is excluded under the policy but, in this case, the 
contractor has carried out trace and access work by removing the bath panel  and in 
doing so, has damaged it. I dont think its fair in the circumstances for AWP to carry 
out work, even though its excluded under the policy, and then rely on this as an 
exclusion in order to decline Mrs Ps claim for the damage caused. 
Mrs P has provided a receipt and information showing she paid £34 for a 
replacement bath panel and £13.47 for a primed skirt  bringing the total to £47.47. 
Mrs P confirms a member of her family fixed this so this didnt incur any repair costs. 
So, AWP should reimburse this amount to Mrs P. Given that this has been an 
expense incurred by Mrs P as a result of AWPs error, and she has been without this 
amount from the point it was paid, AWP should also include 8% interest on this 
amount. Ive also thought carefully about the combined impact on Mrs P of AWPs 
errors, and taking into account the impact Ive referred to above, I think AWP should 
pay total compensation of £250 to Mrs P.   
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs P and Mrs P or AWP, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint and require AWP to reimburse costs paid by 
Mrs P and pay compensation.   
Following my provisional decision, Mrs P has responded and raised concerns about AWPs 
complaints handling. She says she had to raise a complaint multiple times before it was 
registered and addressed. Mrs P also says her partner was pregnant and they had a small 
child, and the whole claim process was causing unnecessary stress. AWP havent 
responded with any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
I acknowledge Mrs Ps concerns about the complaints handling. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the 
complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. 
Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into 
account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this case, I 
cant say the issues which Mrs P raises about the complaints handling are an extension of 
the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint handling part 
of the complaint.      
Ive seen from the claim notes provided by AWP that Mrs P did make them aware she was 
pregnant and has a small child, and the impact this was having on them. I wish to reassure 
Mrs P that I have taken this into consideration when assessing a reasonable level of compensation. And I think the £250 compensation here takes into account the overall impact 
of the service provided by AWP. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AWP have made errors in their handling of Mrs P and Mrs Ps claim. 
So, in addition to the £50 already offered, they should increase their offer by £200 and pay 
Mrs P and Mrs P a total amount of compensation of £250. In addition to this, AWP should 
also reimburse Mrs P and Mrs P the £47.47 they paid together with 8% simple interest from 
the date it was paid to the date of settlement. AWP should provide Mrs P and Mrs P with a 
certificate showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AWP P&C SA must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman