DRN-1001777
 
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) handled her 
motor insurance claim.
All references to AIC include any agents it has appointed to handle claims and/or complaints 
on its behalf
What happened
In late-December 2018 Miss D was involved in a car accident. She made a claim the same 
day and AIC appointed a third party to manage the collection and repair of the car.
In early-January 2019 the third party contacted Miss D to tell her the car was uneconomical 
to repair and would be sent for salvage  this is also known as a total loss or a write-off. 
The third party sent its report and recommendation to AIC the same day for approval. 
Miss D spoke with AIC later that day about her claim. AIC then emailed her to confirm a 
number of things, including that:
The third partys engineers believed the car was a total loss.
The salvage agents would be in touch to arrange collection of the car.
A claims handler would be in touch within seven days to discuss the next steps.
A number of deductions could be made from the cars valuation.
Her policy could be switched to a different car within 30 days.
The courtesy car was no longer available.
Two days later a claims handler got in touch with Miss D to start the settlement process. 
Less than a month after the accident, settlement for the car was raised and the policy was 
amended to cover a new car, to take effect a couple of days later.
Miss D made a complaint about the way her claim had been handled  she said, in 
summary, that:
The insurer hadnt been in contact with her enough and shed had to sort out things 
that were AICs responsibility. 
Shed been given false information, been lied to constantly and that it shouldve been 
AIC that told her the car was a total loss. 
The courtesy car was taken away prematurely.
She wasnt given sufficient warning her car would be salvaged. This resulted in her 
having to arrange for her personal items to be collected at great inconvenience to 
her.
AIC ultimately felt the claim had been handled in line with its usual procedures but accepted 
it had provided some conflicting information about the courtesy car and it couldve been 
clearer about the salvage process. It offered £50 compensation in recognition of this. Miss D wasnt happy with AICs response or the compensation amount offered. But our 
investigator didnt feel AIC should increase its offer of compensation as she felt the claim 
had been dealt with reasonably overall
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont doubt this situation was very stressful for Miss D. But being involved in a car accident 
where the car is subsequently damaged and deemed to be a total loss will inevitably cause a 
some inconvenience and stress. My role is to consider if AIC (and its agents) handled the 
claim appropriately and if any part of the inconvenience and stress Miss D suffered was 
caused by AIC failing to meet its obligations. 
I note, in particular, that:
AICs notes indicate it took steps  on the same day the claim was reported  to have 
the car moved to an appropriate repairer and appoint the third party to manage the 
claim. It also sent Miss D a text confirming what was happening.
A courtesy car wasnt going to be available immediately, seemingly because of the 
holidays surrounding New Year. But when Miss D explained that she needed a car 
straightaway, steps were taken to arrange for one to be obtained via a different 
supplier.
Once the collection, repair and courtesy car had been arranged for Miss D, theres 
little more AIC could or wouldve reasonably needed to communicate to her. Once a 
car is with a garage for repair, its a matter of waiting for it to be assessed and I 
wouldnt expect AIC to interfere with that process, unless it was taking longer than it 
reasonably should  which Ive seen no evidence of.
Part of Miss Ds complaint is that someone other than AIC told her the car was a total 
loss, but that doesnt seem unreasonable in this case. The third party obtained 
evidence from the repairing garage about what work needing doing and, after 
assessing the pre-accident value of the car, that it was likely to be a total loss. While 
it was, ultimately, for the insurer to decide whether to authorise repairs or send the 
car for salvage, the third party had a good idea of what the insurer would decide. I 
can see no harm in telling Miss D, at the earliest opportunity, about the likely 
outcome of her claim. . 
Miss D appears to have contacted AIC after being told about the likelihood the car 
was a total loss. As Ive already mentioned, AIC then confirmed by email what this 
meant for her claim and her policy going forward and this included that a claims 
handler would be in touch within the next seven working days. That seems 
reasonable to me. And I note it only actually took two days for the claim to be 
allocated and the claim handler to contact Miss D.
Miss D has said some of the people she spoke with in relation to her claim were 
rude, lied to her and gave her conflicting information. Weve asked Miss D for more 
detail around when specific incidents occurred and how they impacted her but she 
hasnt provided any more information about this. And, from what Ive seen all of the 
information AIC (or its agents) gave to Miss D was in line with her policy terms. 
Miss D feels she was given conflicting information about her right to a courtesy car 
and that this was withdrawn prematurely. With that in mind, the policy terms say A 
courtesy car is not available if your car is stolen or is considered to be a total loss So 
Miss D was no longer entitled to a courtesy car from the date the total loss was 
confirmed and I dont agree AIC withdrew this too soon. Miss D has said shes been 
given conflicting information about this but Ive seen little which supports that  as Ive already said the email Miss D was sent about the total loss also confirmed the 
courtesy car was no longer available.
AIC has already accepted it could have been clearer about what would happen to 
Miss Ds belongings when the car was salvaged. AIC has said it typically instructs the 
salvage company to sweep the car for personal effects and I have no reason to 
doubt that wouldve happened. Miss D didnt know that and thought she needed to 
arrange collection herself which was difficult because  as shes pointed out  the 
garage was a considerable distance from Miss Ds home, was only open when she 
was at work and she no longer had use of a courtesy car.  But Ive also kept in mind 
that Miss D couldve called AIC to query what would happen to her belongings before 
taking steps to collect them.  In the circumstances, I think the £50 compensation AIC 
has already paid is fair.
Miss D has said she suffers with a disability and various conditions that were 
exacerbated by AICs handling of her claim. Shes said she missed appointments and 
shed needed to take several days of unpaid leave from her job due to the stress 
shes experienced. Weve asked Miss D for more information and evidence 
supporting this, but she hasnt provided any further comments, so Ive based my 
decision on the information available to me. 
Miss D seems to have expected more from AIC throughout her claim. But Im satisfied, 
overall, that the claim was handled within the terms of her insurance contract, within a 
reasonable time frame and she was kept sufficiently update.  So it wouldnt be fair of me to 
award further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman