DRN-2699137
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the level of compensation offered by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) following an error it made in relation to his mortgage payment. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I do not intend to repeat 
everything again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Ive considered the service Mr D received from RBS with regards to his payment of 
£18,223.45 being applied to the incorrect element of his mortgage, and its clear he has 
been left upset and inconvenienced by its errors. I understand it would have been stressful 
and frustrating having to intervene to alert the bank to its error (for the second time) and 
being left with the feeling that it was incapable of dealing with his requests. But I have to 
consider whether, in the circumstances, the £150 compensation offered by RBS is 
proportionate to the trouble and upset suffered.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to
award further compensation to Mr D, I would have to be satisfied that RBSs error has had a 
greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im not persuaded it has in 
these circumstances.
I acknowledge that the experience would have been frustrating for Mr D, and I also 
appreciate that the compensation offered by RBS the second time round was £100 lower for 
what was essentially a similar error it had made before. However, the fact that RBS had 
offered a higher amount for a similar error in the past does not mean it is obliged to pay the 
same amount for subsequent errors. 
While I agree it is poor for the same error to essentially happen twice, Im not persuaded that 
the actions of RBS warrant any further compensation at a higher level. I can see that the 
matter was rectified soon after Mr D got in contact with the bank, and that it has sought to 
make things right by offering compensation and explaining that it will be providing feedback 
to those responsible for the error. So, for the instance where its service fell below an 
acceptable standard for the second time, I consider RBSs offer of £150 to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc have offered to pay a total of £150.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
RBS should pay Mr D (if it has not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision. 
Mr D should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although Mr Ds legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr D and RBS as to whether the £150 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman