DRN-3052251
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like a refund or a new car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
The engine problem with Mrs Bs car happened in July 2020 nearly three years after 
she took out her agreement. When issues arise more than six months after an 
agreement has started, as is the case here, we usually say its the customers 
responsivity to show if there were any issues at the point of sale. Mrs B has given us 
an invoice for work needed, but she hasnt evidenced the problem was present or 
developing at the points of sale by, for example, an independent report. 
I do appreciate Mrs B has had several issues since she had the car  the brake and 
disc pads needed replacing as did a coil pack. These are items that might need 
replacing over time and not ones that indicate a potential point of sale issue. Other 
issues such as the brakes not working and a concern with the gearbox were 
investigated and no faults were found. Its unfortunate that Mrs B has had some 
problems with the car and as a result incurred some costs. But her agreement was 
for a used car, so she might reasonably expect more wear and tear than for example 
with a new car.  But with no evidence of a point of sale issue for which Vauxhall is 
responsible I cant reasonably ask Vauxhall to refund the payments Mrs B has made 
or to give her a new car as she would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
