DRN-3638018
The complaint
Mr F complains that Sterling Wealth Ltd (SWL) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his 
pension into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He also complains that the underlying 
investments selected by the Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) didnt meet his Attitude To 
Risk (ATR).
Mr F is represented in his complaint. But Ill only refer to him in my decision.
What happened
Mr F said he was contacted by an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) regarding a pension 
review. The IFA was from an appointed representative of SWL. 
Mr F said that at the time of the advice, he worked as an engineer and was aged 48. He said 
he wasnt an experienced investor. And that he had a medium capacity for loss and ATR.
Mr F said he was advised in September 2017 to transfer his Executive Pension Plan (EPP) 
held with a provider Ill refer to as provider A, into a SIPP with a provider Ill refer to as 
provider B. And then invest through a DFM Ill refer to as manager C. I understand that the 
pension Mr F was advised to transfer was valued at £39,763.56. Mr F said he was told the 
pension transfer would be beneficial to him.
Mr F said that he was unhappy with the advice. He felt it was unsuitable for him. And that it 
had caused him a financial loss. He felt the IFA had been negligent in the advice hed given 
him. And wanted to be put back into the position he wouldve been in but for the unsuitable 
advice. In August 2021 he complained to SWL through his representative.
SWL issued its final response to the complaint on 17 December 2021. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It said that the IFA had been a restricted adviser at the time, so he 
could only choose from risk-rated portfolios managed by manager C. It said this had been 
disclosed to Mr F. It said manager C was enjoying excellent performance at the time.
SWL also said that its IFA had been told by manager C and provider B that as there was a 
Corporate Bond Fund element in the portfolio, clients could benefit from strong fixed rate 
returns with solid asset backing. It said it had been told that provider B had carried out the 
necessary due diligence to allow the product on the panel. It said that manager C had 
selected this bond for 30% of Mr Fs overall fund. And that its IFA had been assured of the 
liquidity of the bond by both provider B and manager C.
Then in July 2018, SWL said that it was identified that its portfolios were performing better 
and at a lower cost than those of manager C. So it was decided to move all clients currently 
invested with manager C into SWL portfolios. It said that as SWLs appointed representative 
didnt have discretionary permissions, they first had to advise all clients individually again. 
SWL said that it sent Mr F the relevant paperwork in August 2018. But that, although it said it 
chased him for the paperwork, he didnt return the signed and completed form until 
December 2018. 
SWL said it then asked provider B to sell down Mr Fs investment, but it wouldnt accept the 
instruction as the portfolios were managed by manager C. SWL said that at this point, 
manager C said the bond element of the portfolio was illiquid. And that the bond then 
collapsed in June 2019. 
SWL said it made every effort to move the bond. And that if it had received the 
documentation earlier, it couldve moved Mr Fs investment out of the bond before it became 
illiquid.  SWL also said that it felt the advice it had given Mr F was correct and in line with his 
ATR.
Mr F was unhappy with SWLs response. So he brought his complaint to this service. He 
said he was told that the returns hed get would be higher than if he left the money where it 
was. And that hed now lost approximately 30% of his pension fund as a result of the 
collapse of the Corporate Finance Bond held within his pension. Mr F felt that the risks of 
transferring his pension fund from provider A into the SIPP with provider B werent fully 
explained and didnt meet his ATR.
Our investigator requested SWLs file on several occasions. But SWL has had limited 
engagement with this service regarding this complaint. It has sent a copy of the final 
response letter. But despite several requests and chasers, it hasnt submitted its file or any 
further information for this service to consider. So, as our investigator has previously outlined 
to SWL, she had to base her view on this complaint on the only information available to her. 
She issued her view on 28 July 2022.
SWL wrote to our investigator on 9 August 2022. It said it hadnt seen the chaser emails 
shed sent. Our investigator couldnt find anything wrong with the method shed used to send 
the chasers, but re-sent all of the information that had been sent to SWL. She also asked it 
to provide its file and further comments if it wanted to. But SWL didnt send any further 
information. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that SWL had focused its 
final response to the complaint on the DFM and the illiquidity of the bond. And that it hadnt 
addressed the crux of this complaint, which she felt was whether the advice to transfer Mr 
Fs pension into a SIPP with a DFM service was suitable. Based on the limited information 
available to her, she didnt consider that the advice to transfer his pension into the SIPP was 
suitable. This was because she wasnt clear why Mr F specifically needed a SIPP. 
This service also called SWL on 5 January 2023 as this service had still not received any 
response.  We wanted to ensure that SWL had received the emails wed been sending. We 
sent copies of all the emails wed sent again at this time. And asked SWL to review them 
and let us know if it wanted to provide any additional information or comments over the 
following week. But weve had no reply.
Neither Mr F nor SWL replied to our investigators view. So the complaint has come to me 
for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that SWL is responsible for the initial advice to 
transfer into the SIPP with provider B. And then to invest through a DFM. I say this because in its final response letter, SWL said that it felt this advice was appropriate advice and in line 
with Mr Fs ATR. 
I agree with our investigator that SWLs final response letter didnt fully cover Mr Fs 
complaint about the suitability of the advice he was given to transfer from his EPP with 
provider A, to a SIPP with provider B. 
Ive been provided with very little information on this complaint. I havent seen the fact find or 
the suitability report that I wouldve expected to have been produced. Ive had to base my 
decision on this complaint on the final response letter and on what Mr F has told this service 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time. 
Mr F told us that he didnt seek advice about his pensions. So I conclude that he was 
comfortable with his existing pension arrangement with provider A. He also told us that he 
wasnt an experienced investor. And that both his capacity for loss and ATR were medium.  
Ive no reason to believe that Mr Fs existing pension arrangement couldnt and didnt 
provide Mr F with the type of investments that would meet his medium ATR and capacity for 
loss. And even if Mr F wasnt currently invested with provider A in line with his ATR and 
capacity for loss, Ive no evidence that he couldnt have carried out an internal fund switch 
with provider A. 
Ive not seen any evidence that staying with his current provider was considered, regardless 
of whether or not Mr F was deemed to have been happy with his investments at the time. As 
Ive been provided with very little information, I dont know why the IFA felt that the SIPP with 
provider B was needed so that Mr F could meet his objective of medium risk investments. 
And I dont know which  if any  of Mr Fs other objectives couldnt have been met by 
staying with his existing provider. 
I also note from Mr Fs testimony that his pension with provider A was an EPP. These are 
pensions set up by an employer for company directors and key personnel. They typically 
take the form of an insurance policy into which premiums are invested and benefits are 
payable as a tax-free cash sum and pension.
Before April 2006, because EPPs are Occupational Pension Schemes, Mr Fs existing plan 
wouldve brought different, and often greater, tax advantages. But EPPs now operate under 
the same rules as personal pensions. However, EPPs sometimes entitled a member to more 
than the standard 25% tax-free cash lump sum. This is sometimes called protected tax-free 
cash. And sometimes offered other guaranteed benefits like Guaranteed Annuity Rates.  
I dont have any information about Mr Fs existing plan with provider A, but its possible that 
by transferring out, he wouldve lost any guaranteed benefits and associated tax advantages 
of the scheme. I consider that this in itself would be a reason to conclude that the transfer 
out was unsuitable. 
I have also considered the possibility that Mr F no longer got any additional benefit from the 
EPP, and that it couldve been more expensive than other alternative arrangements. But as 
SWL hasnt suggested this as a reason the advice was suitable, and as Mr F wasnt actively 
looking for pensions advice, Im more persuaded that the EPP still provided Mr F with what 
he needed. 
As our investigator noted, IFAs are required to consider the benefits offered by an existing 
pension arrangement before advising a consumer to switch to another arrangement. Ive 
seen no evidence that this was considered. And Ive also seen no evidence that switching 
out of the EPP was suitable. Nor have I been given any reason for the SIPP with provider B being recommended rather than a cheaper alternative, like a stakeholder plan. 
Given I have so little information to work with, Im not sure whether or not the recommended 
SIPP was more expensive than the EPP. But Im satisfied that the recommended SIPP did 
have a number of fees and ongoing adviser charges. And the DFM service also had 
charges. I also note that SWL didnt state in its final response letter that the charges 
connected to the SIPP it had recommended were lower than those in the EPP. I wouldve 
expected it to do so if this were the case.
Ive also considered Mr Fs age at the time of the advice. He was 48, and wouldnt be able to 
access his pension funds until he reached age 55. Given his age at the time of the advice, 
Im not persuaded that there was any pressing need to transfer away from the EPP. I 
consider that the IFA couldve told Mr F that he could review his pensions when he was 
closer to retirement and had a better idea of what he would need then. Without a positive 
reason and need to move away from the EPP, Im not persuaded that the transfer to the 
SIPP with provider B was needed at the time of the advice. SWL didnt give any explanation 
of this in their final response letter. 
Ive also considered SWLs recommendation to use a DFM. Mr F complained that the 
underlying investments selected by the DFM didnt meet his ATR.
DFM is where the consumer delegates authority to a portfolio manager to make decisions on 
their behalf about what investments to make. As our investigator noted, DFMs are typically 
used by individuals who have an established history of investing, wish to further diversify into 
potentially atypical or alternative investments, and require constant management of their 
funds without their personal oversight. Based on what he told this service, Mr F didnt match 
this investor type. 
Mr F had a fund value of just under £40,000 with provider A. I would consider this a relatively 
modest fund size, which means that Mr F is more likely to have benefited from a basic 
arrangement or one with access to a range of mixed asset funds which his adviser reviewed 
occasionally. I also consider it more likely than not that the SIPP/DFM combination wouldve 
cost more overall than the EPP. 
Mr F also said that he had a medium ATR. But Ive no information about whether the adviser 
ensured that the way it had measured Mr Fs ATR mapped across to the DFMs risk scale. 
Or if the adviser agreed appropriate restrictions on what the DFM could invest in on Mr Fs 
behalf. 
Ive not seen anything which suggests why Mr F wouldve needed to use a DFM. I cant see 
that he specifically asked for one. And Ive seen no reason that he needed to use one to 
meet his objectives. Without those reasons, I cant say it would be fair to consider that the 
use of a DFM was suitable for Mr F.
I acknowledge that SWL said that the investment strategy couldve worked, had it not been 
for what it considered were the wrongdoings of the DFM. But I consider that without the 
unnecessary and unsuitable recommendation given to Mr F to switch into the SIPP and 
invest through the DFM, he wouldnt have been exposed to the possibility of financial losses 
beyond those he mightve incurred through the day-to-day market movements within the 
fairly mainstream existing pension funds in his EPP.
And I dont think the resulting financial losses from the switch are so far removed from the 
initial advice as to consider any actions of the DFM to be sufficiently intervening. I think 
losses within the SIPP, and through the actions of an additional third party which didnt 
previously exist - the DFM - beyond those which mightve been incurred in the EPP would fall within a range of reasonably foreseeable outcomes when the advice was given. That 
these mayve been in large part a result of, according to SWL, inappropriate investment 
activity on behalf of the DFM, wouldnt in my view mean that SWL wasnt primarily 
responsible for Mr Fs losses by effectively placing him in harms way in the first place.
Therefore Im satisfied that the losses Mr F faced because he used the DFM couldve been 
entirely avoided if the adviser hadnt recommended the transfer from the EPP with provider 
A to the SIPP with provider B.
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr F needed to replace his EPP with a SIPP in 
order to meet his objectives. From the information Ive seen, Ive no reason to consider that 
Mr F couldnt achieve his retirement objectives through the EPP. Ive also seen no evidence 
that Mr F was the type of investor who would likely benefit from using a DFM service. 
Therefore Im satisfied that if the adviser had recommended that Mr F kept his EPP, he 
wouldve done so. 
As Ive concluded that the advice to transfer into the SIPP was unsuitable, I dont need to 
consider what happened within the DFM. I say this because if SWL hadnt given Mr F the 
unsuitable advice, he wouldnt have been in the SIPP, or used the DFM service. So although 
Mr F has complained that the underlying investments selected by the DFM didnt meet his 
ATR, I dont have enough evidence to investigate that complaint fully. But in any event, Ive 
already decided that the advice to transfer was unsuitable, and Im satisfied that Mr F has 
lost out financially due to SWLs unsuitable advice. 
I uphold the complaint. I also agree with our investigator that £300 compensation should be 
paid to Mr F for the distress and inconvenience, and the disruption to his retirement 
planning, the unsuitable advice caused. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr F wouldve remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be 
certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy wouldve been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must SWL do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, SWL must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
SWL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
SWL should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If SWL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr F's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr F 
wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr F £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused and the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SWL deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. SWL should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SIPP with 
provider BSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
transferDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. SWL 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount SWL pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If SWL is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. SWL may require that Mr F provides an undertaking 
to pay SWL any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. SWL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr F's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. SWL should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP with provider B should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if SWL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, SWL will need to determine a 
fair value for Mr F's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The SIPP with provider B only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP with 
provider B to be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need 
to be removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by SWL taking over the illiquid 
assets, or this is something that Mr F can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know 
how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If SWL is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr F an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP with provider B to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr F's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sterling Wealth Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.Sterling Wealth Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman