DRN-3354354
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Jarvis Investment Management Limited (Jarvis), his Self-Investment 
Personal Pension (SIPP) provider, applied unfair investment charges when he wanted to 
transfer his SIPP to another provider.
What happened
Jarvis said that Mr Y opened an execution-only SIPP with it in May 2016. 
In 2021, Mr Y wanted to transfer his SIPP to another provider. I understand that he had 104 
holdings within the SIPP at this time.
Mr Y said he expected to be charged a £50 plus VAT closure fee for moving his SIPP. But 
Jarvis confirmed in September 2021 that its fees were £10 per line of stock plus VAT, as well 
as the closure fee. Given the number of holdings Mr Y had, his total investment charges 
would be £1,248. And his closure fee would be £60. Jarvis also noted that due to the number 
of unit trust funds held the transfer would most likely take a little while to complete. 
Mr Y felt that the investment charges were too high. He questioned why they were being 
charged. 
Jarvis acknowledged that Mr Y felt that the charges were too high. But said that the total 
charge was simply down to the amount of lines of stock that he held and wanted to transfer 
out. It said it would charge him £10 plus VAT for each holding in line with its terms and 
conditions. It also said that it felt its fees were clear and transparent. And noted that they 
were always accessible on its website.
Mr Y didnt think it was fair for Jarvis to simply fall back on its terms and conditions without 
considering whether those terms were fair to the customer. He also expressed surprise that 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Jarviss regulator  allowed it to charge so much. 
He asked it to confirm that the total charge would simply cover its costs. He also felt that the 
FCA required firms to not put barriers in place when customers wished to transfer.
Jarvis confirmed that its fees would stand if Mr Y wanted to transfer. On 1 October 2021, Mr 
Y complained to Jarvis about what he felt were the unfair fees it would charge him to transfer 
his funds. 
Jarvis issued its final response to the complaint on 1 October 2021. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said that most of Mr Ys holdings were in funds that required completed 
stock transfer forms in line with each Fund Administrators specifications. So it felt that its 
charges were fair and proportionate to the administration it had to carry out to process such 
transfers. It also said that Mr Y had agreed to the charges  which it felt were clear, concise, 
and readily available on its website - when he opened his account. 
Unhappy with Jarviss response, Mr Y brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the fees 
that Jarvis had charged had been in line with its terms and conditions. And that these were 
what Mr Y had agreed to when he opened his SIPP account. She also considered that -
given the work Jarvis had to carry out  the fees were fair. 
Mr Y didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt think it had really cost Jarvis well over a 
thousand pounds to transfer his holdings. He also didnt think it was fair to rely on terms and 
conditions which he felt were unfair. Mr Y also said that other pension providers charged 
nothing to transfer. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I consider that Jarvis fairly applied its standard 
charges to Mr Ys transfer. I know this will be disappointing to Mr Y. Ill explain the reasons 
for my decision.
Although I understand that Mr Y wants this service to consider the fairness of the terms and 
conditions, as well as whether or not theyve been correctly followed, I first considered 
whether Jarvis had clearly outlined its fees. And whether it had applied its stated charging 
structure correctly. 
I understand that Mr Y wouldve been provided with the SIPP terms and conditions when he 
first opened his SIPP account. He would also have been provided with the fee schedule for 
his investment holdings and for the SIPP. 
The SIPP key features document explains that it aims: 
to make our fees open and transparent so most administration activities that we are likely to 
carry out on your behalf are detailed in our fee schedule.
It also states: 
Our charges are in addition to costs involved in the purchase or sale of assets levied by the 
investment providers.
The investment fee schedule stated that the share dealing fees was £10 per line of stock 
plus VAT. And that Transfers out would cost £50 plus VAT.
The SIPP terms and conditions also stated the following about transfers and transferring out:
7. Transfers
7.4 Where you request the Administration Company to apply for a cash transfer from an 
existing SIPP you take responsibility for arranging dis-investment of any assets held within 
the SIPP. We will not give dis-investment instructions to the existing SIPP provider and 
accept no liability for delays in concluding the transfer as a result of dis-investment 
instructions not having been received or actioned by the transferring SIPP provider.
14. Transferring out
14.5 Where you instruct us to transfer your SIPP in the form of cash, you are responsible for 
placing dis-investment instructions with your investment manager(s). The Administration Company does not accept any liability in respect of delays in the completion of your transfer 
arising as a result of delays in the dis-investment process.
From what Ive seen, the terms and conditions and the fee schedules are clearly written. So I 
consider that the charges are clear. And that the documents explain that there will be both a 
transfer out fee and charges associated with each stock holding. Im also satisfied that this 
information was easily available to Mr Y. And that it had been since he first opened his 
account. I also note that it hadnt changed from when he first opened the account. 
As the fee charged was in line with the clearly written documentation Mr Y had available to 
him, I cant fairly say that Jarvis acted outside the terms and conditions.
I also need to consider whether the fees Jarvis charged were fair. 
Mr Y didnt think it had really cost Jarvis well over a thousand pounds to transfer his 
holdings. And he felt that other pension providers exist which charge nothing to transfer. 
Jarvis felt that it had fairly charged for the work it had carried out. 
From what Ive seen, Jarvis had to carry out a considerable amount of administration in 
order to process the transfer. This was because of the number of holdings in Mr Ys SIPP. 
And because he had different holdings with different fund administrators. Therefore, 
although I know Mr Y doesnt agree, Im satisfied that Jarvis fairly charged the £10 per line of 
stock plus VAT its investment fee schedule had clearly outlined.
I also note that the fundamental reason for the relatively high charge is the number of stocks 
Mr Y held in his account. For example, if hed only had five holdings, the investment charge 
would only have been £60 in total. I cant fairly hold Jarvis responsible for the number of 
stocks he held within his SIPP.
Im unable to fairly compare the charges other providers would make for similar transfers. 
This is because I can only consider whether Jarvis has fairly applied its own terms here. 
From what Ive seen, it has.  Therefore I dont consider that Jarvis has unfairly put a barrier 
in place for Mr Ys transfer. And I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman