DRN-2796247
The complaint
Mr D complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC decision to restrict his account.
What happened
In August 2020 Barclays restricted Mr Ds account as part of a review. During this time Mr D 
couldnt access his account which he said caused him financial difficulty.
Mr D complained that Barclays had repeatedly misinformed him about how long the review 
would take and he had to rely on using credit cards for daily expenses.
In September 2020, Mr D received a credit into the account and Barclays allowed Mr D to 
withdraw money from his salary. In November 2020 Mr D withdrew £500 from his account.
On 1 December 2020, when Barclays completed their review, they gave Mr D full access to 
his account. 
Our investigator who reviewed the complaint didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. 
He thought Barclays were entitled to review the account in line with their terms and 
conditions and didnt think theyd caused any unnecessary delays.
Mr D didnt agree. He said while he understands Barclays may be able to freeze accounts, 
their communication about it wasnt acceptable. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything differently. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr D, but Ive explained my reasons below.
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing and blocking Mr Ds account.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr D to realise he couldnt use his account. 
And I appreciate this would have put him in a financially challenging position because he 
didnt have access to their funds. But a bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account 
will be readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with which they have to 
comply. Im pleased to see Barclays allowed Mr D to withdraw money from his salary. Ive 
considered that Mr D chose to withdraw less than half of his available salary so I consider it 
to be more likely than not he didnt need to withdraw the whole amount.
Barclays havent told Mr D why his account was blocked or reviewed. But Barclays arent 
obliged to share the reasons with Mr D. This service wont generally intervene in a banks 
commercial discretion when reviewing and subsequently blocking accounts, but Id like to 
reassure Mr D that, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays actions were 
appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont doubt the length of the delay would have made things more difficult for Mr D  a total 
of around four months. But I havent seen any evidence of Barclays causing unnecessary 
delays, and Im satisfied Mr D had access to withdraw money from his salary so I cant fairly 
uphold the complaint on this part.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays were entitled to take the actions they did, so Im not going to 
ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman