DRN-2328327
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs D. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1997 to cover a store card 
account. Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different view of the case, and so I sent out a provisional decision, and 
asked for comments. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. But Ive currently reached a 
different view and think there isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
The adjudicator said Mrs D was working less than 16 hours a week in 1997 when 
the PPI started, and so the terms of the policy meant she wasnt able to benefit 
from the main features. The adjudicator based this on an answer Mrs D gave on 
our questionnaire.
However, AXA sent us a copy of a different questionnaire that had been sent by, 
or on behalf of, Mrs D during its investigation of the complaint. On that AXA had 
been told Mrs D worked 18-20 hours a week at the time.
I dont have any other evidence to resolve this conflict, and I think its unlikely strong-
enough evidence would be available so many years later. Without stronger evidence, 
it wouldnt be, fair to conclude that AXA mis-sold the PPI in this way.
As it was about 23 years ago, its not surprising AXA hasnt got many records, and it 
also wouldnt be surprising if memories of what happened have faded.
Mrs P says she wouldnt have agreed to the policy if shed been asked. AXA says the 
PPI was sold to Mrs D by phone, after the store card had been set up. Mrs D says it 
was sold the same time as she applied to take the store card. But whatever the 
timing and method of the sale, I dont have enough evidence to fairly uphold the 
complaint. It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude AXA acted wrongly in this way, 
unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it.
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove 
they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. And 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Ds 
knowledge or consent.
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case:
Ive seen nothing to show that AXA recommended the PPI as being 
particularly suitable for Mrs Ds individual needs. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Mrs D to 
decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mrs D clear and fair information, so she could 
make an informed choice. And I cant be sure that it did do this properly. So 
Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. But in Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, even if shed been given 
all the necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference 
to whether she took PPI. (This is assuming she was given a choice  which I 
accept she says didnt happen.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI 
could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it 
would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. 
Also it appears she didnt have significant other means to help pay her living 
expenses and credit account for long, if she lost her income; and even if she 
did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. So the PPI is likely still to 
have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA and Mrs Ds representatives both said they had nothing further to submit. 
Ive decided to confirm my decision and, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman