DRN-3974961
The complaint
Mrs L complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a store card. 
I know Mrs L bought PPI in a store, but AXA has accepted responsibility for the sale of PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the optional nature of the PPI had been clear to Mrs L when she 
bought the policy. She thought the complaint should be upheld. 
AXA didnt respond to our adjudicators view, so the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Ive upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mrs L told us that the PPI was sold to her at the same time as she applied for her store card 
in 1987. She applied for the card by filling in a leaflet that was given to her in the store. I 
havent seen a copy of that leaflet, which isnt unusual given the PPI was sold over 35 years 
ago. I wouldnt expect either party to keep documentation for such a long time.
That said, I am familiar with the way in which PPI was sold alongside the store cards Mrs L 
applied for. I understand that PPI was automatically included when the application was made 
unless Mrs L specifically opted out of buying the cover. 
When selling the PPI policy, AXA should have made it clear to Mrs L that she didnt have to 
take it out if she didnt want it. If Mrs L had to deselect the cover, then I cant reasonably say 
it would have been clear to her that the policy was optional. 
For those reasons, I agree with our adjudicator that PPI was mis-sold and AXA will need to 
take action to put that right. 
Putting things right
AXA will need to put Mrs L back into the position shed be in if PPI hadnt been sold. 
According to her PPI questionnaire, the store card account has now been closed. So, AXA 
must: 
a) find out how much Mrs L would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI 
premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should 
also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI, as well as 
any interest added to those charges;
b) AXA must then refund the difference between what Mrs L owed when she closed 
the account and what she would have owed if the policy hadnt been added to it;
c) if Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her;
d) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs L would 
have owed when she closed the account from when she closed it until she gets 
the refund. The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on.
e) If - when AXA works out what Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI  
she paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra she paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs L would have owed something on the store card. The interest 
rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on;
f) AXA must tell Mrs L what its done to work out the compensation set out above. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA France IARD to put things right as I have set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman