DRN-2600703
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited unfairly 
allowed their reviewable whole of life policy to lapse without value.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a unit-linked reviewable whole of life policy in March 1986. The policy 
provided £25,000 of cover for an initial monthly premium of £20.   
Mr and Mrs W stopped paying premiums towards the policy in August 2001. Since that point 
the life cover charges were paid for from the accrued unit value. 
Mr and Mrs W received annual statements from Sun Life. In January 2019 they received a 
statement showing the unit balance and cash-in value, approximately £450. Mr and Mrs W 
believed this indicated the policy could be maintained for several more years. They were 
surprised when they received a letter in September 2019 advising them the policy had 
lapsed with no value. 
Mr and Mrs W complained Sun Life had given them no warning the policy was at risk of 
lapsing soon. They say had they been warned that their cover might end theyd have 
resumed paying premiums to maintain their cover. They also considered the fund value 
(£450) had been misappropriated. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. The policy terms required Sun Life to review the plan 
every five years, but no reviews had taken place since 2001. Our investigator was of the 
view that those reviews should have taken place regardless of whether the premiums were 
being paid. Had those reviews taken place Mr and Mrs W wouldve had notice that they 
needed to either restart paying premiums or reduce the sum assured to maintain cover. 
Mr and Mrs W say that, had they been given the option, theyd have agreed to pay an 
increased premium (£62.14) from 2016 to maintain the full sum assured. 
Sun Life explained that if the policy was reinstated now it would be due another review. In 
order to maintain the sum assured for another five years the premium would now have to 
increase to £103.06 a month. 
Our investigator recommended that Sun Life reinstate the policy, without the need for further 
underwriting, subject to Mr and Mrs W paying the new premium going forward. He also 
recommended Sun Life pay Mr and Mrs W £150 compensation for the upset they felt when 
the policy lapsed. 
Sun Life accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr and Mrs W did not. They asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision. They said that the offer to reinstate the policy was unfair. 
They noted that they could now obtain £50,000 of life cover for £60 a month, so they felt 
Sun Lifes offer to reinstate cover didnt represent good value for money. They felt that they 
should therefore be offered a cash settlement instead. 
I considered the complaint and explained to Mr and Mrs W why I wasnt minded to uphold it. 
I explained that I considered Sun Lifes decision not to carry out policy reviews after 
premiums had stopped being paid was reasonable. I also explained that I wasnt persuaded 
that, had the review taken place, Mr and Mrs W would have restarted paying the higher 
premiums needed to maintain cover. This was because Mr and Mrs W had told us they could 
obtain cheaper cover elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with my provisional decision. They feel that Sun Life had a duty of 
care to inform them that the policy was about to lapse to give them time to consider what 
they wanted to do with the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for much the same reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision. I know Mr and Mrs W feel theyve been let down by Sun Life, and so my 
decision will come as a disappointment to them. But as Ill go on to explain, I dont think 
Sun Life has acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
The policy terms and conditions set out that regular payments should be made towards
the policy. While the terms and conditions allow for premiums to be decreased, it states that
they cant be reduced below a minimum level. The terms and conditions set out that if the
regular premium is not paid within the 31-day grace period, the Guarantee Benefit will 
cease to apply. 
Sun Life said that once regular premiums stopped being paid it was under no obligation to 
carry out further policy reviews. It explained the purpose of the policy review was to establish 
if the regular premium was enough to maintain the policy benefits for the next five years. It 
said there was no benefit in carrying out the reviews, to determine whether the premium was 
enough to sustain those benefits, if premiums werent being paid at all. I dont think this was 
an unreasonable position for Sun Life to take. So, I dont agree it was obliged to carry out 
policy reviews in the years after Mr and Mrs W stopped paying premiums.
Mr and Mrs W have also said that Sun Life had a duty of care to inform them the policy was 
about to lapse. I agree it wouldve been helpful if Sun Life had notified Mr and Mrs W their 
policy was at risk of lapsing, but I dont agree this went as far as being a duty they must 
carry out. 
Sun Life sent Mr and Mrs W annual statements that set out the number of units held and the 
policy value. These statements showed that their units had been gradually reducing since 
they stopped paying premiums in 2001, they also showed that the policy value had been 
reducing since 2011, and particularly rapidly in recent years. It was inevitable that the policy 
would eventually lapse without value as no premiums had been paid for nearly 20 years. 
And I think the annual statements gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient notice that they may need to 
review their policy. I dont agree that it was incumbent on Sun Life to carry out this review, 
particularly as Mr and Mrs W had decided to stop paying premiums without receiving any 
advice from Sun Life.  
But even if I was persuaded that reviews should have taken place, Im not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs W have actually lost out as a result of them not taking place. A review in 2016 
wouldve shown that the premium needed to increase to £62.14, a significant increase from 
the £20 premium Mr and Mrs W had originally been paying. Mr and Mrs W told our 
investigator theyd have paid this additional premium. But they also told us they could obtain 
£50,000 of cover, double what the policy offered, for a similar premium. Mr and Mrs W have suggested the policy doesnt represent good value for money. I think its likely theyd have 
reached a similar conclusion had they been presented with this option in 2016. As such, Im 
not persuaded theyd have opted to pay the increased premium had they been told thats 
what was needed.
It's not my role to consider whether a policy offers good value for money or not. Nor can I tell 
a business to reduce the cost of cover. I understand Mr and Mrs W believe they should
be able to retain their cover for £20 a month, but Sun Life has told us that cover is now
considerably more expensive than this. I've no reason to doubt what Sun Life has told us 
and in fact the premium increase appears to be broadly in line with increases we've seen 
across the industry.
Mr and Mrs W have also suggested they should be offered a cash settlement, but I dont 
think that would be reasonable in the circumstances. The unit value that built up in the policy 
in the early years has been used to cover the costs of the life protection over the last 18 
years. The annual statement from January 2019 showed that the policy value was £452.62. 
In its final response Sun Life explained that the cost of life cover had gradually increased, 
and by January 2019 the monthly cost of life cover was £49.87. This increase in protection 
costs led to the policy lapsing at the end of September 2019 when the unit value had been 
exhausted. So Im satisfied theres no value left in the policy, and all premiums paid into the 
policy in the first 15 years have gone towards paying for Mr and Mrs Ws life cover for the 
last 33 years. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to expect Sun Life to pay them a 
cash settlement as theyve benefited from having life cover while the policy was in force.
In summary, while I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about this complaint, Im 
not persuaded Sun Life has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman