DRN-2040019
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim for storm damage under her 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P contacted Aviva to make an insurance claim when a retaining wall at the rear of her 
garden collapsed following a storm. Aviva sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The 
surveyor didnt think the damage was storm-related. He thought it was more likely to be a 
gradual issue related to a build up of hydrostatic pressure or poor design. Aviva turned down 
the claim.
Mrs P complained to Aviva. Aviva maintained that it was correct to turn down the claim. So, 
Mrs P complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said there were 
storm conditions at the time of the damage. She said that although Aviva had said that the 
damage was caused primarily because of gradual damage and poor design, that there was 
no exclusion for poor design in the storm part of the policy and that even if there was a build-
up of pressure, which was a gradual event, Mrs P shouldnt reasonably have been aware of 
this. On that basis, our investigator said that Aviva should pay the claim.
As Aviva didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at the weather data for the relevant period, there were strong winds and a volume of 
rain that would fall within the definition of storm conditions around the time of the wall 
collapsing. Aviva also seems to have accepted that there were storm conditions. So, I think 
the answer to the first question is yes.
Thinking about the second question, I think that in broad terms, the answer is yes. Strong 
winds can cause a wall to move and collapse.
So, I have looked at what Aviva found when it inspected the damage, part of which it 
summarised as follows:
A retaining wall at the rear of the property has collapsed into the neighbouring field. A large 
amount of ground from behind the wall has also collapsed, leaving a void beneath the paved 
patio area. The collapse of the wall has also caused sections of the post and panel fencing 
to collapse.
Aviva also provided photos that it said showed various construction issues and a lack of 
mortar adhesion in the wall, which it said had happened gradually over a period of time.  It 
also said that there was a build up of hydrostatic pressure. Aviva said the damage was the 
result of gradual deterioration and faulty workmanship.
Looking at the policy, although some parts of the policy exclude damage caused by faulty 
workmanship, this isnt the case for storms, so I dont think that it is fair for Aviva to rely on 
that as a reason for it to turn down the claim. This means that the majority of the issues that 
Avivas surveyor raised as contributing to the collapse of the wall are irrelevant to whether 
the claim should be accepted. 
However, the policy does have an exclusion under the storms section for gradual damage. 
Ive thought about whether it was fair for Aviva to rely on this exclusion. So, whether Mrs P 
should reasonably have been aware of the gradual damage, which relates to the mortar 
adhesion and build-up of pressure. 
Looking at the photos, I cant see that Mrs P would have been able to see the specific 
section of the wall that had the mortar issues from within her own garden. I think the only 
way this might have been visible would have been for her to go into the overgrown field 
behind her property. I also havent seen anything to indicate that there was anything that 
would have caused Mrs P to look at whether there were issues with the wall, including from 
a build-up of pressure. The photos of the remaining wall, from within Mrs Ps garden, 
suggest that it was in good condition. So, I cant see that she would have any particular 
reason to think that there was an issue with the wall caused by gradual deterioration, as I 
cant see that there was any indication that it was in a poor state of repair. On that basis, I 
dont think that it is fair for Aviva to rely on this exclusion.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think that the wall collapsed during a storm and that 
Aviva cant rely on a faulty workmanship exclusion because the policy doesnt apply to storm 
incidents. I also dont think that Aviva can rely on the gradual damage clause and that it 
should treat Mrs P as if she hadnt been aware of gradual damage. It therefore follows that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva to pay the claim, less any excess that needs to be deducted. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Aviva Insurance Ltd to:
Pay the claim, less any excess.
If Mrs P has already paid for the work to be carried out, subject to her providing suitable 
evidence of this, Aviva must pay 8% simple interest on the amount paid from the date 
that she settled the repair bill.
If Aviva Insurance Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman