DRN-3936858
The complaint
Miss F complains that Monzo Bank Limited wont make any form of refund for a payment 
made on her debit card account for a holiday.
What happened
In June 2022 Miss F used her Monzo debit card account to pay £1669.19 to a holiday 
company for a holiday in July 2022. On arrival at the hotel she said it was lacking in basic 
amenities and smelled bad and had mould. So she spoke to the holiday company and she 
was moved rooms. Once she completed the holiday she complained to the holiday 
company, but it didnt refund her. So she took her complaint to Monzo.
Monzo looked into the matter and says it asked Miss F for further evidence. Once it 
considered everything it didnt take her Chargeback any further. So it didnt think it could do 
any more for Miss F. Miss F didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, she thought Monzo had acted fairly 
by declining Miss Fs request for a refund. Miss F didnt agree. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the holiday company or the hotel, 
which arent within my remit.  I can see from Miss Fs representations to the Investigator that 
Miss F is (understandably) focusing on the actions of the Holiday company and hotel. 
However whatever the issues there maybe with the Holiday company and just because Miss 
F feels shes lost out, it doesnt necessarily follow that Monzo has treated Miss F unfairly. 
Monzos role in the matter is to be considered only under the Chargeback rules in place as 
this transaction was on Miss Fs Monzo account which is a debit card account. The 
Chargeback rules are a voluntary scheme and consumers do not have a right to a 
chargeback being raised. It is the case however that this Service considers raising a 
chargeback to be good practice. Monzo can only be held responsible if it has failed in some 
way. And the question of whether or not Monzo has treated Miss F fairly is the only question 
I can decide upon in this decision. This is an important distinction which I hope Ive made 
sufficiently clear.
Miss F accepts she made this transaction for the holiday with the holiday company in 
question and doesnt dispute the amount, date, or other aspects of the transaction itself. 
Having looked into the matter Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Miss F 
and correctly applied to her account with Monzo. 
could Monzo challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss F 
does here, Monzo (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Monzo couldve challenged the payment on the basis Miss F didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out. 
Monzo is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And if Monzo takes the chargeback as far as it can then 
the scheme provider (not Monzo) will then make an independent determination on the 
matter. So Monzo isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when 
going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if 
it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. I can see Miss F raised the matter 
with Monzo and it explained it needed more evidence from her about the state of the hotel. I 
can see two photographs Miss F provided however they do not really demonstrate anything 
with regard to the rooms state bearing in mind they are in extreme close up of 
indistinguishable walling or flooring. Miss F has also provided screenshots of her discussions 
with the holiday company. But all this demonstrates is that she wasnt happy with the room. 
The evidence Miss F has provided is unpersuasive as to the state of the room and or hotel.
Monzo says, in essence, that it decided it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success 
without proper evidence and as Miss F didnt supply it, it didnt take the matter further. Ive 
considered this and Im not persuaded Monzo treated Miss F unfairly here. It asked her for 
help with her dispute and she didnt supply what it needed to take the matter further. And its 
clear she stayed for the full length of the booking and used the amenities she paid for.
In summary this is a decision about what Monzo is responsible for regarding this transaction 
for this holiday. The test here is did Monzo consider the Chargeback situation here properly. 
I think that Miss F hasnt lost out here as I think Monzo made a fair decision in not pursuing 
the chargeback any further. So I dont think I can fairly require Monzo to refund Miss F for 
the holiday. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Monzo Bank Limited. It 
has nothing further to do in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman