DRN-3650631
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC was responsible for delays in 
processing their mortgage application which resulted in a financial loss to them. To resolve 
the complaint, Mr and Mrs H would  like to be compensated for their financial losses, which 
include: Stamp Duty deadline missed costing them £2,500, additional legal fees of £300, 
additional rent and expenses of £3,000, and undue stress and pressure and time chasing for 
responses.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage on a property they intended buying to Barclays via their 
broker, in early 2021. Barclays assessed the application and issued a mortgage offer dated 
22 March 2021 which was valid until 3 September 2021.
Unfortunately, the property Mr and Mrs H were purchasing fell through in June 2021. In July 
2021, Mr and Mrs H found another property and contacted their broker on 4 August 2021, to 
get a mortgage for this property. On 5 August 2021, their broker completed a Mortgage 
Application Change Form (PCV) and sent it to Barclays noting a change in the property and 
purchase price. This was reviewed on 6 August 2021 but there were some details missing 
about the new property, including type, year built, etc. Mr and Mrs Hs broker contacted 
Barclays on 16 August 2021 for an update and they were advised the PCV team were to 
make changes. Barclays PCV team reviewed and updated the form on 17 August 2021 and 
instructed a valuation of the property.
The valuation was completed on 2 September 2021 and a revised mortgage offer was 
issued on 3 September 2021, but the expiry date of the mortgage offer was also dated 3 
September 2021. On 7 September 2021, Mr and Mrs H received the mortgage offer and the 
broker queried the expiry date with Barclays. Following this, Mr and Mrs H contacted the 
broker for updates on 9 and 10 September 2021 and on 13 September 2021 Mr and Mrs H 
told their broker they hoped to complete in the next few weeks.
Barclays said the expiry date of 3 September 2021 was because of the time since the first
application was made and a new application would need to be made so that an offer could 
be issued that would be valid into the future, as no completion date had been set for the new
property.
The broker submitted a new application on 17 September 2021. Barclays reviewed the 
application on several occasions and there was various contact with the broker as income 
documents were needed and clarity around credit commitments showing on their credit files.
On 25 October 2021, Barclays confirmed a maximum loan amount of £692,778 and the 
broker confirmed this was acceptable to Mr and Mrs H. Barclays initially requested a new 
valuation, but then it agreed to proceed based on the valuation on 2 September
2021 and a mortgage offer was issued on 26 October 2021.
On 1 November 2021 there was an issue with the fax machine and the broker was told 
Barclays couldnt guarantee they could complete within 48 hours and Mr and Mrs H needed 
the funds by 5 November 2021. This was resolved and the funds were released on 3 
November 2021.Mr and Mrs H say that during this time they missed the Stamp Duty 
deadline on 30 September 2021 and were put under immense pressure from the seller who 
was threatening to pull out of the transaction.
Barclays says that a new mortgage application was keyed on 17 September and an offer 
made on 26 October 2021 within its time scales for a mortgage offer to issue. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that Barclays 
had progressed the application within a reasonable timeframe. Mr and Mrs H disagreed 
saying in summary that they queried why Barclays would issue an offer that expired on the 
same day and that it should have flagged up prior to the valuation taking place that a new 
application would be necessary given the time that passed since the March approval.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H applied to a broker for a mortgage with Barclays. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy 
with the time that Barclays took to issue a mortgage offer causing them financial loss. My 
role is to see whether Barclays are at fault and if so, what compensation should be payable.
I note that Barclays didnt agree to process this application within any agreed timescale, but 
we would expect Barclays to process it within a reasonable period. There were a number of 
applications. There is no issue about the original application. The issue relates to the second 
and third applications. These commenced at the beginning of August as a PCV rather than a 
new mortgage application. That resulted in a mortgage offer dated 3 September for 
£742,999.00 with a fixed rate mortgage product of 1.65% until November 2023. But as it was 
a PCV the mortgage lapsed on the date the original mortgage offer lapsed on 3 September 
which was the same date the amended mortgage issued. 
I would have thought thats fairly unusual but not unique. I assume that in an urgent situation 
a property could complete on the day the mortgage offer issues if all parties are prepared for 
it. If Mr and Mrs H were prepared to complete on 3 September, they might have been glad of 
the offer. But it wasnt in Barclays hands to determine the date of completion of the 
purchase. Barclays was only doing what it was asked to do on a PCV which was to transfer 
the original mortgage offer from one property to another but that mortgage offer was only 
valid until 3 September  the date on the original mortgage offer. In doing so, I cant fairly 
say that Barclays did anything wrong.
As Mr and Mrs H couldnt complete on 3 September and the offer had lapsed and there was 
no settled completion date - as I understand contracts hadnt yet exchanged - a new 
mortgage application was required. Mr and Mrs H were able to obtain a more favourable 
fixed rate of interest - I see its  at 1.45%  whereas the original mortgage product was 1.99% 
and the PCV rate was 1.65%  - but by the time an offer issued they had missed a stamp duty 
advantage and feel that there was unreasonable delay by Barclays. I see the new mortgage 
application was submitted on 17 September and an offer issued on 26 October. Thats not 
an unreasonable period to process the application. But I also see from the file that this was 
an active application in the sense that several queries were raised and answered about the 
customers credit commitments throughout the period indicating the active involvement of 
Barclays throughout. This wasnt a case of a file lying on someones desk. The queries 
Barclays raised all seem relevant to a risk and affordability assessment of the application 
and I cant fairly criticise a lender for conducting a thorough assessment of quite a sizeable 
loan.Happily, this resulted in a further mortgage offer for Mr and Mrs H although not within the 
time period that they hoped for. But I cant fairly say that there was any unreasonable delay 
by Barclays in processing the application. I do see there was an issue about a valuation that 
Barclays required  but then didnt  as the bank already held a recent valuation. But this 
doesnt seem to have delayed the process. So, for the reasons set out above I dont accept 
that Barclays did anything wrong and so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman