DRN-4166638
The complaint
Mr G complains British Gas Insurance Limited hasnt backdated cancellation of his home 
emergency insurance policy fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr G held a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas for many years to 
cover his property in the UK. In 2013, he moved abroad. He kept his UK property 
unoccupied. He continued to pay for the policy.
 In late 2021, he told British Gas he wanted to cancel the policy. He thought the 
cancellation should be backdated to 2013 and all premiums paid since then refunded 
to him. He said hed overlooked cancelling the policy earlier. As the property had 
been unoccupied, hed made no call outs, claims or otherwise engaged with British 
Gas during the intervening years, so, he didnt think he should pay for the policy.
 British Gas agreed to cancel the policy from the August 2021 renewal and refund the 
premiums paid since then. But it didnt think it should backdate the cancellation any 
further. It said it had sent all policy contact and renewal information to the property as 
that was the only address it had been given. It hadnt been given a telephone number 
or email address for Mr G  and it hadnt been told hed moved out. Because the 
policy had been setup to renew automatically and Mr G had continued to pay the 
direct debit for the premium throughout the relevant time, the policy continued.
 Our investigator thought British Gas had acted fairly. She said Mr G was responsible 
for updating his contact details and cancelling the policy if he no longer wanted it. As 
hed continued to pay for the policy, it was reasonable for British Gas to assume he 
wanted it to continue. British Gas had no way of contacting him other than by post, 
which they did, so there was nothing more it could have done.
 Its not in dispute that British Gas contacted Mr G by the only method it could  post 
to his UK property  to offer annual services, provide renewal information and any 
other relevant policy documents. As he didnt make it aware of any other contact 
details, Im satisfied this was reasonable.
 Its also not in dispute that Mr G continued to pay for the policy during the relevant 
time. Paying the premium would reasonably have given British Gas the impression 
Mr G wanted the policy. So, whilst British Gas could have interpreted Mr Gs lack of 
engagement as a sign he no longer wanted the policy, I dont think it would have 
been right for it to make that assumption without hearing from him.
 Mr Gs policy provides HomeCareTwo cover. That includes an annual service and 
insurance cover for the boiler, controls and central heating. During the relevant period 
of time, British Gas would have carried out an annual service if hed asked it to and it 
would also have provided cover for these parts of the property in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
 Whilst Mr G didnt take advantage of any of these benefits, Im satisfied he was 
entitled to and would have been able to if hed chosen to. For example, if hed asked 
someone in the UK to facilitate that for him. That means he received what he paid for 
 insurance cover and an optional annual service. In these circumstances, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for British Gas to keep the premiums he paid.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman