DRN-3360551
The complaint
Mr R complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr R was given a loan by UK Credit. He applied for the loan in May 2019, for £7500 and 
agreed to repay £250.77 a month over 60 months. The total repayable if the loan went to full 
term would be £15,046.20. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr R before it agreed to the loan. It asked him 
for details of his income and his expenditure. It says it then checked Mr Rs credit file to 
determine how much he was paying to other lenders. And it asked Mr R to provide a payslip 
so it could verify his income.
UK Credit made an assessment of Mr Rs disposable income and the likelihood that he 
would be able to repay the loan. It used verified income and then expenditure that Mr R 
declared to it. It calculated that Mr R had monthly income of £1450 and expenditure of £712.
I can see why UK Credit would think the loan repayment would be affordable based on what 
it had calculated. But I dont think its checks were proportionate and I think it should have 
gathered more information than it did. I agree with our investigator, that UK Credit didnt ask 
enough questions about Mr Rs finances in this instance. This was a relatively large loan for 
Mr R to take out and was over a 5-year term. Mr R also had a substantial secured loan on 
his credit file, and although he gave UK Credit an explanation as to this and that a family 
member was making the repayments, I think seeing this ought to have alerted it to want to 
find out more. 
I would have expected UK Credit to conduct a complete review of Mr Rs finances to 
ascertain whether he would be able to sustainably make the repayments. So, I think, as well 
as verifying his income, UK Credit should have also looked to verify Mr Rs expenditure 
rather than relying on declared information. This is so it could assure itself of Mr Rs true 
financial position and that he could make the repayments in a sustainable way.
As I cant see that it did this, I would need to consider what it would have seen if it had 
carried out further checks. Mr R has provided our service with his personal bank statements 
from a period of time of 3 months leading up to the loan application. So, I have been able to 
review them and look through Mr Rs expenditure. In doing this I can see that there was no 
credit impairment on the statements such as returned or unpaid direct debits and no other 
loans or credit other than what UK Credit was already aware of. I can also see Mr Rs living 
expenses and essential expenditure and can see that when this is deducted from his income 
that he would have been able to afford the repayments for the loan. And I havent seen 
anything else within the bank statements provided by Mr R that would suggest to me that 
further checks and further verification of his expenditure would make the loan unaffordable 
either. So, I dont think UK Credit irresponsibly agreed to this loan.
So, I currently dont think UK Credit was wrong to give the loan to Mr R based on the 
circumstances of his complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. UK Credit responded and said it had no further comments. 
Mr R responded and submitted some additional documentation about the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked through the documentation that Mr R has submitted and can see that it is 
documentation relating to the loan that UK Credit has produced from the time. Reading 
these documents has not changed my findings or decision in Mr Rs complaint. And UK 
Credit has not made any new points for me to respond to. So, as neither party has anything 
further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will change the outcome of this 
complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. 
With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman