DRN-1674187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the default Firstplus Financial Group Plc has recorded on their 
credit file. The default is affecting their ability to get credit, and they believe this should have 
been recorded earlier or not at all. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took a loan out with Firstplus in 2008 for £35,000 over 300 months. The 
contractual monthly repayment was £311.59. Payments were made when due until February 
2013 when a payment was missed. Mr and Mrs H had discussions with Firstplus about their 
circumstances and a payment arrangement for £120 a month was agreed, initially for three 
months. 
Mr and Mrs H made this payment until December 2013 when contractual payments were 
again made. And between May and October 2014 slightly higher payments were made 
which started to reduce the arrears outstanding. From October Mr and Mrs H agreed a new 
payment arrangement of £78 a month. 
In March 2015, Firstplus sent a default notice and the account was subsequently 
defaulted. Mr and Mrs H say they only discovered this recently and made a complaint. Their 
complaint wasn't upheld as the default had been recorded correctly. 
Our investigator was also satisfied the default had been recorded correctly and so she didn't 
ask Firstplus to remove or amend it. Mr and Mrs H have asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman. In summary, they say that in 2013 and 2014 they agreed a reduced a 
payment arrangement, so the situation was no different. They continue to believe the default 
should be backdated to 2013, six months after they first went into arrears. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs H feel strongly about their complaint, not least because their ability 
to get credit has been impaired by the default. But I would only ask a lender to remove or 
amend a default if it wasn't an accurate reflection of the account, or it hadn't followed the 
correct process to record it. 
Mr and Mrs H first went into arrears in February 2013 due to a change in circumstances. 
Lenders are required to treat those in financial difficulty with due consideration and 
forbearance. I can see from the notes that Mr and Mrs H went through income and 
expenditure details and Firstplus agreed to accept a reduced monthly repayment of £120 for 
an initial period of three months. This payment arrangement continued until December 2013 
when they started to make contractual payments again. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has guidance for lenders called 'Principles for 
the reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies'. I have taken this into account when reaching my decision. That guidance does suggest that 
defaults are usually recorded by the time an account is six months in arrears. However, the 
guidance sets out there are exceptions to this, including for longer term loans and secured 
loans, including mortgages, and flexible credit such as student loans. 
Mr and Mrs H had entered into a payment arrangement with Firstplus and we wouldn't 
usually expect a lender to register a default when an arrangement is agreed - although that 
is dependent on the arrangement made (and an arrangement doesn't actually prevent a 
default from being registered). Mr and Mrs H kept to their arrangement and were 
subsequently able to revert to their contractual payment and more to start to reducing the 
arrears. I'm not persuaded Firstplus was wrong not to record a default in 2013 given this was 
their first period of arrears, they kept to the arrangement and this was a long term secured 
loan. 
It appears Mr and Mrs H  got into financial difficulties again towards the end of 2014 as a 
new payment arrangement was made for a much lower amount of £78.  This was at a time 
when Mr and Mrs H were still in arrears from the previous period of difficulty. As a result of 
their lower monthly repayment, their arrears were now increasing at a much higher rate. So 
although they were in an arrangement, this was a second period of difficulty and meant their 
contractual obligation to Firstplus had been broken for a second time. And at the time the 
default notice was issued, in March 2015, Mr and Mrs H's arrears were over £3,300 and over 
£1,000 (or more) higher than they had been during their previous arrangement; they were 
falling further behind.
So although Mr and Mrs H had agreed a payment arrangement during both periods of 
difficulty, the status of their account was very different during 2013 to that at the end of 2014 
and when the default notice was issued in March 2015. Mr and Mrs H's arrears were far 
higher and the monthly repayment much lower than before. In the circumstances, I'm not 
persuaded it was wrong to record a default and I find no basis on which to find Firstplus were 
required to register it sooner than it did. It follows that I don't require Firstplus to make any 
amendments to the default. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman