DRN-4196880
The complaint
Mr P has complained Santander UK plc wont refund him £300 that was withdrawn from a 
cash machine but he never made the transaction.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr P went to a cash machine to get out some money to buy a mobile phone. 
He was unable to withdraw £60 as he was told hed reached his cash machine withdrawal 
limit. He withdrew £60 from his other Santander account. 
He noticed £300 had been withdrawn and he told Santander hed never made the 
withdrawal. Santander refunded Mr P £60 as a gesture of goodwill. However they believed 
he must have made the £300 cash machine withdrawal himself and wouldnt refund him.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr P brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our 
investigator noted Santanders evidence that £300 had been dispensed after a cash 
machine withdrawal using Mr Ps card just 30 minutes or so before his successful withdrawal 
of £60. He wasnt going to ask Santander to do anything further.
Mr P remained dissatisfied and has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander and Mr P have told us. This includes the details Santander holds about 
the deposit of £700 Mr P made at a machine, followed by a £300 withdrawal, a cancelled 
transaction, an attempted withdrawal of £60 and then later a successful withdrawal of £60 
using a different card. 
I appreciate what Mr P has told us that he didnt make the withdrawal of £300 but the 
evidence does not reflect this.
Specifically:
This evidence shows the debit card for Mr Ps account ending 7310 was used to 
deposit £700 cash at 12:35pm. Theres then a small debit card transaction at a local 
shop. Mr P accepts these transactions were him.
At 12:49pm, £300 was withdrawn using the same debit card. This withdrawal 
contained 12 £20 notes and six £10 notes.
At 12:51pm at another adjacent Santander cash machine, Mr P inserted his debit 
card and then cancelled the transaction.
At 12:53pm Mr P went to a third Santander cash machine and tried to withdraw £60. 
This was rejected by Santander as the earlier withdrawal of £300 had taken Mr P to 
his daily withdrawal limit for that account.
At 1:37pm Mr P withdrew £60 using the debit card for his other Santander account at 
the third cash machine.
Mr P agrees he continued to retain his debit cards throughout these transactions.
Mr P has subsequently implied that he didnt receive money when he made the disputed 
withdrawal. And Ive considered whether this could be the case as well. However 
Santanders evidence shows money was dispensed and theres no evidence of money being 
retained by the cash machine. 
I note Santander seemed to get confused by the transactions and what Mr P was claiming. 
They provided him with a £60 refund as a gesture of goodwill despite Mr P being happy to 
admit he withdrew £60 using his other account. Nor was he debited £60 for his account 
ending 7310 in error.
Despite this, the audit trail clearly shows the different transactions as noted above, that the 
genuine debit cards were used and cash was dispensed as instructed. 
I am sorry to tell Mr P that I can see no other scenario other than him successfully 
withdrawing £300 from the cash machine using his own debit card.
Im not going to ask Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman