DRN-3363269
The complaint
Mr N complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly applied a default to his credit file.
What happened
In 2021, Mr N says that he applied for car finance as he needed a car for his work. It was at 
this point he realised that TSB had applied a default to his account. He says this shouldnt 
have happened as his account didnt have an overdraft facility and so he couldnt have had a 
debt on it. He says that he didnt receive the letters about the issues with his account and 
that another person in his property may have thrown these away. He said that he wasnt 
called about the issues and had he been aware of the situation he would have settled the 
debt.
Mr N has explained that he has physical and mental health conditions and that this issue is 
causing him a lot of stress. He says the default could affect his job.
TSB issued a final response letter in October 2021. It says that Mr Ns account had a small 
credit balance in early June 2019 and then he made payment for around £75 for petrol on 5 
June 2019 which resulted in his account going into an unarranged overdrawn. It explained 
that it had to make the payment and that it had acted in line with the terms of Mr Ns 
account. 
TSB says it wrote to Mr N several times about the overdrawn amount and what would 
happen if this wasnt repaid including notifying the credit reference agencies. It also says that 
Mr N was sent statements in this time and text alerts. As Mr N didnt get in contact TSB 
arranged to close the account and apply a default. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted Mr Ns comments about not 
receiving post but said this wasnt something that TSB would have been aware of. She also 
noted that Mr N would have received text alerts about his account being overdrawn. 
Overall, our investigator didnt think that TSB had done anything wrong and so she didnt 
require it to remove the default.  
Mr N didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated his mental and physical health 
issues and said that these affected his spending and his ability to deal with finances. He said 
that exceptions should be made given his situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has provided information about the physical and mental health conditions he has, and I 
would like to thank him for being so open. I am very sorry to hear of the struggles he has 
faced, and I can understand why this current issue is causing him so much distress. Mr N 
has explained that he discovered the default when he applied for car finance and that he 
needed the car for his work. I realise this must be very distressing as he has explained how 
important it is to him that he is able to keep this job.
However, in order for me to be able to uphold this complaint and require TSB to remove the 
default I would need to be able to say that it had done something wrong or that Mr N had 
been treated unfairly. In this case I do not find I can say this. I will explain why.
Mr N has physical and mental health conditions and has explained how these make him 
vulnerable and that he can struggle in dealing with his finances. I have taken this into 
account and do not doubt how difficult Mr N has found things over the past years. However, I 
do not have anything to suggest that Mr N had made TSB aware of these issues when he 
opened his account and TSB has said it only became aware of Mr Ns health issues after his 
complaint was raised. Given this I do not find I can say that TSB should have been 
reasonably aware that Mr N was vulnerable or treated him differently.
Mr N had a current account with TSB which didnt have an overdraft. Therefore, I can 
understand why he didnt think that the account should have been allowed to go into debt. 
However, the terms of the account say that:
If you go overdrawn unexpectedly or over your Planned Overdraft limit, we may agree to 
cover your payments with an Unplanned Overdraft.
If we agree to give you an Unplanned Overdraft, well charge you Unplanned Overdraft fees 
and interest on the amount you borrow. 
TSB has also explained that given the nature of the transaction that resulted in the 
unplanned overdraft (payment for petrol) it was required to make the payment. Therefore, I 
do not find I can say that TSB did anything wrong by allowing the transaction to be made 
which resulted in Mr Ns account going into unplanned overdraft.
Once this had happened, TSB wrote to Mr N. It didnt receive a response and sent further 
letters. Mr N was also being sent account statements at this time which showed the status of 
his account. Mr N has explained that he was sharing his property with another person at the 
time who threw his post away. He has also said that he had moved. However, as TSB was 
sending the letters and statements to the address it had on file and there is nothing to show 
if and when Mr N advised TSB of a new address, I find it did do what was required of it to 
inform Mr N of the need to make a payment and the consequences of not doing this.
While Mr N may not have received the letters that were sent, TSB has said he was also 
signed up to receive text alerts. The mobile number TSB has on file is the same as the one 
provided with this complaint and so on balance I think it more likely than not Mr P would 
have received messages making him aware of the situation on his account.
As Mr N didnt make the required payment or contact TSB about this issue a default was 
applied. While I appreciate Mr Ns comments about the impact this is now having, I cannot 
say that TSB did anything wrong by applying the default. The information it provides to the 
credit reference agencies needs to give an accurate reflection of the account at the time and 
in this case this is what happened.
In conclusion, while I am very sorry to hear of the upset this issue has caused to Mr N, I 
cannot say that I have evidence showing TSB did anything wrong or treated Mr N unfairly. 
Therefore, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman