DRN-2430836
The complaint
Z, a limited company complains Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd 
(Berkshire) cancelled its medical malpractice insurance policy without good reason. 
Mr S, a director of Z, brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary here. Ill then go on to focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Zs medical malpractice insurance policy was due for renewal. Before the policy could be 
renewed Z was required to answer a series of questions so the insurer could determine if it 
still wished to provide ongoing cover to Z. One of the questions concerned any known action 
against a medical practitioner covered under the policy.  
Z provided some information to Berkshire which led it to review its decision and ultimately 
withdraw cover. Berkshire gave Z three months notice to find alternative cover. 
Z complained about Berkshires decision to withdraw insurance cover and brought its 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Insurers are able to decide the terms under which they wish to provide insurance 
cover. It isnt for this service to interfere in those terms. However, where an insurer 
has decided to withdraw cover based on those terms, this service can consider 
whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. 
Berkshire has provided confidential information to this service from its underwriters. 
That information confirms it would have not have offered cover to Z given the 
information that was provided to it prior to renewal. As such, I cant say Berkshire has 
done anything wrong or acted unreasonably in withdrawing cover. 
Given the information was provided so close to the renewal of the policy I think 
Berkshire acted reasonably by allowing the policy to renew in the short term while it 
reviewed its decision. This ensured the medical practitioner(s) covered under the 
policy were able to continue treating patients at pre booked clinics. And it provided 
sufficient time following its decision to allow Z to obtain alternative cover.
However, Berkshire didnt warn Z that a consequence of its review could be that 
cover was withdrawn.  Had it of done so, Z could have made the decision itself to 
cancel the policy and seek cover elsewhere. This would have meant there would be 
no adverse information recorded about the cancellation of the policy and Z wouldnt 
have to declare this fact to future insurers. 
As it stands Z has had to seek insurance elsewhere at higher cost, potentially due to 
Berkshires error. 
To put things right, Berkshire has now offered to provide Mr S with a letter he can 
present to Zs current insurer to ensure it isnt disadvantaged by the cancellation of 
the policy. It has also agreed to remove any cancellation markers from its internal 
system. I think this is a fair and reasonable settlement, so I wont be asking for 
Berkshire to do anything more here.
Mr S has pointed out the withdrawal of cover caused inconvenience and stress as he 
had to go through the long and complex process of arranging alternative insurance 
for Z. While I accept this was the case, as Ive found Berkshire didnt act 
unreasonably in withdrawing cover, he would have needed to do this in any event. I 
dont think any award of compensation is due here.
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Berkshire should do the following:
Berkshire has already issued a letter to Z which it can present to its new insurer. 
However, if for whatever reason Z needs this re-dated or a further copy sent 
Berkshire should do this. 
Ensure any internal markers relating to the cancellation of Zs policy are removed 
from its internal system. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Zs complaint against Berkshire Hathaway International 
Insurance Ltd. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman