DRN-3765371
The complaint
Miss B complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it granted loans to her. Had it done so, Morses wouldve 
discovered she couldnt afford to repay these loans.
 
What happened
A summary of Miss Bs borrowing based on the information Morses is able to supply is found 
below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
24 £500.00 13/12/2013 19/12/2014 50 £17.50
25 £700.00 19/12/2014 01/07/2016 50 £24.50
Morses says, that it believes that there were a further 23 loans before the first loan in the 
table above. Morses has said information about those loans isnt available this is either 
because the information is no longer available due to its data retention policy. Or, the earlier 
loans were approved by a different lender  a lender who Morses later acquired and only 
became responsible for any loans that were still outstanding.  
Whatever the reason, neither Morses nor Miss Bs representative has been able to provide 
any information about these loans, as this is the case, this decision can only deal with the 
two loans in the above table. 
Morses considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this response, 
Miss Bs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He said he wasnt able to make a full 
finding about loan 24 due to their being no information about what Miss B may have 
declared about her income and expenditure. For loan 25, he could see the loan was 
affordable based on the income and expenditure information Miss B provided. The complaint 
wasnt upheld. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss Bs representative didnt agree and explained: 
I am afraid that we do not agree with the decision made and therefore request the 
case be transferred for a Final Decision by an Ombudsman.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss B could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss 
Bs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
Miss B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss B.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss B was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Bs complaint.
Loan 24
Before the loan was approved, Morses likely took details of Miss Bs income and 
expenditure. However, the information cant be provided by Morses, and there could be a 
number of reasons for this. It could be due to the fact that the information is no longer 
available due to the passage of time. Or, the earlier loans were the responsibility of another 
lender who approved them. I cant say for sure. 
It is also possible, that before this loan was approved a credit check may have been carried 
out. However, Morses hasnt been able to supply the results of any search. Which would 
suggest either one wasnt carried out or due to data retention policies the check has been 
deleted. But Miss Bs representative also hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with either bank 
statements or a credit file. So, I dont know what Miss Bs living costs were likely to be at the 
time. 
Due to the lack of information that I have, I cant fairly conclude that Morses was wrong to 
have approved this loan. 
Loans 25 
Loan 25, was taken on the same day that loan 24 was repaid and Miss B returned to Morses 
for a larger sum. And when this loan was approved, similar checks were likely carried out as 
they were before loan 24. However, Morses, for this loan has been able to provide a copy of 
the paper application as well as a summary of the information declared by Miss B. 
Miss B declared a weekly income of £320. Her outgoings were declared as being £200 
which left a disposable weekly income of £120. The loan repayments looked affordable to 
Morses, given a weekly repayment of £24.50. 
There wasnt anything else in the checks that Morses carried out before this loan which 
indicated the loan was unaffordable or that Miss B was having wider financial difficulties. It 
also, in my view hadnt yet reached the stage where I think Morses needed to have verified 
the information Miss B had provided it. 
I also, dont have sufficient information to be able to conclude whether this loan was 
unsustainable for Miss B in some other way. 
This loan looked affordable, and I consider proportionate checks were carried out and so Im 
therefore not upholding the complaint about either one of Miss Bs loans. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman