DRN-3436224
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed his loan account and recorded a
default on his credit file. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my 
provisional decision. I said: 
Mr H took out a loan with Lloyds in March 2018. In April 2020 Lloyds approved a 
payment break under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Payment Deferral Guidance. 
The payment break was extended and ran until October 2020.
At the end of the payment break, Mr H spoke with Lloyds and explained he was still unable 
to make his loan payment. Lloyds took information about Mr Hs income and outgoings and 
agreed to suspend interest on his loan for three months and that no payments were 
required during that time. Lloyds sent Mr H confirmation in a letter. Lloyds letter confirmed 
the payment plan ended on 4 February 2021. Mr H has told us he thought the payment 
plan ended in March 2021.
On 12 March 2021 Mr H made a payment of £1,250 towards the arrears on his account. 
Mr H has told us he made the payment over the phone and was told he had remaining 
arrears of around £920. Mr H also says he was told to start his normal monthly payment 
from April 2021.
On 13 March 2021 Lloyds sent Mr H a formal demand. Mr H called Lloyds on 14 March 
2020 and it confirmed his payment had been received and credited to his account. Mr H 
also wanted to make sure a payment hed made towards his credit card balance had been 
received by Lloyds as well. Lloyds call handler confirmed receipt of Mr Hs payment and 
explained it could take a couple of days to show on his account.
Mr H made his contractual monthly payment on 7 April 2021. On 15 April 2021 Lloyds 
terminated Mr Hs loan and recorded a default on his credit file.
Mr H went on to raise a complaint and said Lloyds had unfairly closed his loan and 
reported a default. Lloyds didnt agree it had made a mistake and didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Mr H went on to refer his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Th y
thought Lloyds had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else.
Mr H asked to appeal and explained he hadnt received any post from Lloyds at all 
regarding his loan account. Mr H also confirmed that the letters Lloyds claims to have sent 
werent made available via his online banking facility. As Mr H has asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning how to fairly resolve Mr Hs 
complaint. Im not persuaded that it was fair for Lloyds to close Mr Hs loan account and 
record a default in April 2021.
Mr H has told us he thought the payment plan agreed with Lloyds in November 2020 was 
due to end in March 2021. But Lloyds says the payment plan was for three months, not 
four, and ended on 4 February 2021. Lloyds letter to Mr H confirms the end date of the 
plan was February 2021, not March 2021. I know Mr H has explained he didnt receive 
Lloyds letter, but I think its more likely than not that the call handler confirmed a payment 
plan of three months, in line with the letter they sent.
Mr H has told us he hasnt received any of the correspondence Lloyds has sent him 
regarding payment holidays and plans or its decision to close and default his loan. I cant 
say why that is. But Lloyds has provided copies of all the letters it sent and I can see 
theyre addressed in line with the details we hold for Mr H. Im satisfied Lloyds did write to 
Mr H as it claims.
Whilst Im satisfied Lloyds did write to Mr H about the end of his plan, arrears and decision 
to close his account, I think its fair to look at the timing of his payments in March and April 
2021. Mr H paid £1,250 to his loan over the phone on 12 March 2021. Lloyds says theres 
no record of that call, but Ive listened to a follow up call Mr H had with Lloyds. And Mr H 
has also provided a detailed recollection of the call and information he was given. On 
balance, I accept Mr H did call Lloyds on 12 March 2021 and paid £1,250 to his loan. Whilst 
the payment wasnt sufficient to cover the total arrears, it did reduce the figure by over half.
Lloyds then moved to send Mr H a formal demand the following day, on 13 March 2021. 
But that formal demand incorrectly says the outstanding arrears were £2,3286.66. That 
figure failed to take into account the payment Mr H had made of £1,250 the day before. I 
appreciate it takes time to update a payment on Lloyds systems. But I dont think its fair 
for Lloyds to rely on a formal demand that contains the wrong information.
In addition, I note the formal demand encouraged Mr H to call Lloyds to discuss his loan 
and options for clearing the arrears. Mr H called Lloyds on 14 March 2021 to check his 
payment made on 12 March 2021 had been received. That call recording has been 
provided. I understand Mr H said he would make a follow up payment within a couple of 
days, but its not clear whether he was referring to his loan or credit card and the call 
handler didnt check. Nor did the call handler bring up the fact that Mr Hs £1,250 payment 
was insufficient to clear the full arrears balance. Given the situation, Id have expected 
Lloyds to make sure Mr H was fully aware of what he needed to pay to stop his account 
closing. I think the call handler shouldve done more to help Mr H.
Mr H made his next contractual payment on 7 April 2021 and has explained he was going to 
clear the remaining arrears of around £920 a short time later. But despite Lloyds receiving a 
substantial payment towards the arrears and Mr Hs April 2021 payment, it still took the step 
of closing and defaulting his loan. Im not persuaded that was fair in the circumstances of
Mr Hs complaint. In my view, had the call handler on 14 March 2021 explained exactly 
what Mr H needed to pay to avoid his loan account closing he wouldve made 
arrangements to do so.
Whilst close, I think the decision to close Mr Hs loan and record a default on his credit file as 
premature and unfair. As a result, I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint.Mr H has told us hes had difficulty obtaining other credit, including a mortgage, as a result of 
Lloyds actions. Whilst I agree the decision to record a default was unfair, there would 
always have been arrears on Mr Hs credit file and a payment plan from November 2020.
The arrears wouldve continued to be reported until cleared. So there would always 
have been a degree of adverse information on Mr Hs credit file as a result of the 
payment plan and arrears.
I can see the situation has been stressful for Mr H and, as Ive said above, I think Lloyds 
couldve done more to support him at an already difficult time. As a result, I intend to tell 
Lloyds to pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. In my view, that figure 
fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr H.
Mr H has told us he wants the loan to be reinstated and for payments to resume. I think 
thats fair in the circumstances. But Mr H should be aware that Lloyds will likely have to 
extend the term to ensure the missed payments from April 2020 onwards are made if hes 
unable to clear them in a lump sum. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to 
tell Lloyds to settle as follows:
-Remove the default and adverse information from Mr Hs credit file from the date 
of default onwards
-Contact Mr H to discuss reinstating his loan account and extending the term 
(as required)
-If the debt has been sold to a third party, Lloyds should take steps to retrieve 
it
-Pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to respond with additional information they 
wanted me to consider before I reached my final decision. Mr H responded and confirmed 
the loan had been repaid. Mr H also explained the default recorded on his credit file had 
caused problems obtaining credit and a mortgage. Lloyds responded and said it felt the 
payments Mr H made to his account showed his was in financial difficulties and the 
decision to apply a default to his loan was reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all the information available again and considered both parties responses to 
my provisional decision. Id like to thank both parties for their responses and patience 
whilst the case has been with us. 
Mr H has confirmed the loan balance was repaid. That means theres no need for Lloyds 
to take further action to reinstate it or retrieve it from a third party. Mr H has also told us 
about problems he has experienced obtaining credit. But, as I said in the provisional 
decision, whilst I agree the decision to default the loan was unfair, there were genuine 
arrears recorded on Mr Hs credit file because of the payments made. So whilst I agree the 
default is unfairly reported, I havent found it was the only issue that couldve impacted Mr 
Hs applications. 
Ive considered the level of compensation awarded and remain of the view that £200 is 
fair, for the same reasons. 
Lloyds responded to say the payments Mr H made to his account showed its decision to 
close and default it was reasonable. But Ive already explained why I think it was unfair for Lloyds to record a default on Mr Hs credit file. The information Lloyds has provided hasnt 
changed my view. 
As I havent been persuaded to change my view, Im going to proceed and uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to settle as follows: 
- Remove the default and adverse information from Mr Hs credit file from the date of 
default onwards
- Pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman