DRN-3880866
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from esure Insurance Limited (esure) 
following renewal of his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out home insurance with esure. In August 2022, when his policy was up for 
renewal, esure provided Mr B with his renewal documents online. 
Mr B renewed his policy but said that esure then removed some of the documents from its 
online library so that he was no longer able to access them. He said that this had happened 
in previous years as well. The documents were Your Agreement with esure Services 
Limited and the Renewal Update.
Mr B complained to esure. He said that there was a regulatory requirement for these 
documents to be provided to him and that they should remain available in the online library 
after renewal had taken place. 
Esure said that the documents were provided with the renewal invitation but once renewal 
had taken place, the documents were replaced by the renewal acceptance documents. 
Esure provided Mr B with a copy of the Agreement document.
Mr B wasnt happy with esures response and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
that the documents should remain in the online library after renewal. Our investigator didnt 
think esure had done anything wrong. She said that the required documentation had been 
provided to Mr B at renewal and as we are not the regulator it is not for this service to tell an 
insurer how to run its business.
Mr B said that the issue was that two documents were not available in the online document 
library following renewal and that this had not been properly addressed. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint is about the removal of online documents from his library after renewal. In 
particular, Mr B refers to the Your Agreement document. This contains details of esures 
charges should Mr B wish to make changes to his policy mid-term. Mr B also refers to the 
Renewal Update document  but I note that this didnt form part of his renewal documents in 
2022 as there had been no changes to his policy. 
Mr B says that provision of the documents is a regulatory requirement and that the 
documents should remain available to customers throughout the term of the policy. Whether 
a business is in breach of the regulations is a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), not this service. Mr B can refer this matter to the FCA if he wishes. My role is to 
decide whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of each 
individual complaint.
Ive seen copies of the documents which were available to Mr B at renewal  and I dont 
think theres any suggestion that esure didnt provide Mr B with the renewal documents that 
its required to provide. 
Esure accept that the same documents were not available online after renewal as it says 
they were replaced by the policy documents which were generated when Mr B accepted and 
paid for the policy.
Ive looked at the Agreement document and can see that, amongst other things, it contains 
details of the costs of amending the policy mid-term. I think that its fair for this information to 
be available to Mr B. However, the information was made available to Mr B when he raised 
the issue with esure as it sent a copy of the Agreement to him. Im satisfied therefore that the 
document was still available  albeit not in the online library. I think it likely that esure would 
also have provided Mr B with a copy of the Renewal Update document in the same way had 
one been issued.
Its not for me to tell an insurer how to run its business  so how it chooses to make 
documents available to its customers is a matter for them. Whilst I appreciate that it might be 
more convenient for documents to be readily available in the online library, Im satisfied that 
esure made the Agreement document available to Mr B and I think this was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Mr B is able to refer to this document should he need to. 
I dont therefore think that esure has done anything wrong and Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman