DRN-1488527
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited settled a claim a third party 
made on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S was involved in an incident with another driver where the other driver 
collided with a coach. The other driver said that the accident was caused by Mr S because 
he says that Mr S pulled into his lane and caused him to swerve to avoid the incident, 
inadvertently hitting a coach. Mr S disputes that he caused the incident and says he was the 
victim of a road rage incident.
Tradewise chose to settle the other driver's claim. It said that he'd provided dashcam footage 
which it said showed that Mr S had pulled into the other driver's lane. It said the other driver 
was correctly proceeding and Mr S had a duty to ensure it was safe to pull into the other 
driver's lane. And it thought the dashcam footage showed that he didn't do so.
Mr S didn't agree with Tradewise's decision and he provided a statement from an 
independent witness which he says showed that the other driver was at fault for the 
accident. Tradewise still thought the dashcam footage showed that Mr S was at fault for the 
incident.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He said he wasn't able to say who was at fault 
for the incident, but needed to assess whether Tradewise had acted fairly in its handling of 
the claim. He thought Tradewise had considered everything and come to a fair conclusion.
Mr S didn't agree with the investigator as he thought the investigator hadn't taken his version 
of events into account. He maintains that he didn't cause the incident. And he thinks the 
dashcam footage might have been edited. He's unhappy that Tradewise didn't get the full 
length of the dashcam footage.
As Mr S didn't agree with the investigator, the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to not uphold this complaint and I'll now explain why.
Mr S says that he didn't cause the accident and is unhappy Tradewise has found him at fault 
for it. I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an 
accident, as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Tradewise 
has carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a 
reasonable decision.
Mr S's policy, like all other motor insurance policies, allows Tradewise to take over and deal 
with the defence or settlement of any claim in respect of any liability covered by this Insurance. So it was entitled to settle the claim on the best terms it thinks fit. And it had the 
ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it needed to exercise this right fairly and 
reasonably.
I've taken all of Mr S's comments into account  in particular that he says an independent 
witness said he wasn't at fault for the accident. But I'm satisfied that Tradewise has taken 
this into account. It's said that, while it agreed the witness said the other driver was at fault, it 
thought "as per the footage the Third Party was proceeding correctly in their lane when you 
[Mr S] pulled into their path and it was your [Mr S's] responsibility to ensure the way was 
safe before carrying out the manoeuvre." I can't say it was unfair for Tradewise to conclude 
this.
I acknowledge Mr S doesn't agree that Tradewise should have settled the other driver's 
claim. But, as I said, it was entitled to make the decision to do so. And I'm satisfied that 
Tradewise has taken everything into account before it reached the decision it did. So I don't 
think it's acted unfairly in the way that it's handled this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman