DRN-3859945
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that NRAM Limited has applied and continues to apply an interest
rate premium of 8% to their Together loan since 2008. They say this has led to unfairly high
monthly repayments and that their loan balance has not reduced as it should have.
Mr and Mrs V would like the loans interest rate to track NRAMs standard variable rate
(SVR) going forward and theyd like the additional interest theyve paid over the years to be
refunded to them.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs V took out a mortgage with Northern Rock. Mr and Mrs V borrowed 
around £146,000 on an interest only basis over 25 years to buy a property for around 
£154,000. The mortgage was on a two-year fixed rate of 5.99% until 1 September 2008.
At the same time as arranging the mortgage, Mr and Mrs V also took out an unsecured
Together loan for £30,000 to be repaid over 25 years. The Together loan was stapled to the
main mortgage, and the total borrowing was therefore around £176,000. The mortgage and
Together loan had the same interest rate while Mr and Mrs V kept their mortgage with
Northern Rock.
In February 2008 Northern Rock collapsed and was subsequently nationalised. Mr and Mrs
Vs mortgage was later transferred to NRAM Limited. NRAM Limited has responded to this
complaint. I shall refer to Mr and Mrs Vs lender as Northern Rock during the period Northern
Rock was still the loan owner, and NRAM thereafter.
Mr and Mrs V say that in late 2008, once their fixed rate had expired, they wanted to move 
to a larger property to accommodate a growing family. They needed a bigger mortgage to 
finance the new property. Mr and Mrs V say they looked into remortgaging with Northern 
Rock. However, they couldnt get any further borrowing with Northern Rock because  due 
to the fact that it had been nationalised - it was not able to offer any new lending after early 
February 2008. Mr and Mrs V say they had to remortgage with another lender as Northern 
Rock couldnt help them. They blame Northern Rock for this, saying it was nationalised 
following its own mismanagement.
Mr and Mrs V took out a new mortgage with a different high street lender and moved 
house in December 2008. They repaid the mortgage theyd had with Northern Rock. But, 
Mr and Mrs V say they couldnt raise enough money to also repay the outstanding 
balance of their Together loan, which was still around £30,000. So, when Mr and Mrs V 
repaid their mortgage in December, Northern Rock delinked their Together loan. This 
triggered an 8% increase to the interest rate on the Together loan, as there was a term in 
the contract that enabled Northern Rock to do this if the mortgage and Together loan 
were delinked. This meant the interest rate that applied to the Together loan from that 
point became Northern Rocks SVR plus 8%, which equated to 13.84% at the time.
Mr and Mrs V say they had no choice but to leave this loan with Northern Rock at that time, 
and with NRAM since it took over the borrowing. They complain that its unfair that it has 
cost them more each month since they repaid their mortgage- and that it will continue to do 
so going forward. Mr and Mrs V say theyve struggled with the loan payments in recent 
years and the Together Loan has now fallen into arrears.
Mr and Mrs V made their complaint in 2017. They say they complained at that time 
because theyd asked for a redemption figure and were surprised and disappointed to learn 
how much they still had to repay on the loan. This led them to question the fairness of the 
interest rate being applied and why the balance hadnt reduced as they had hoped.
NRAM gave its final response to Mr and Mrs Vs complaint on 31 July 2017. It said 
Northern Rock had never guaranteed that it would provide further interest rates or new 
lending to Mr and Mrs V when they took out the mortgage. NRAM said section 12a of the 
mortgage offer said new applications for borrowing will be subject to you satisfying our 
lending policy criteria at the time of application. It said it gave no guarantees that we will 
provide a new Mortgage or unsecured loan in the future.
It also said it was clear in the terms and conditions of the mortgage and Together loan that 
if the first charge mortgage was ever repaid, and the Together loan left in place, Mr and 
Mrs V would pay an additional 8% above its Standard Variable Rate (SVR) on their loan. 
That is the rate that NRAM has been applying to this loan and it didnt think there had 
been a mistake.
NRAM said if that wasnt clear to Mr and Mrs V when the mortgage was sold they should 
complain to their mortgage broker about this. NRAM also said that the outstanding 
balance of the loan was correct. It said as the loan was still in its relatively early stages, 
more interest was being paid than capital each month and this was why the balance 
wasnt reducing very quickly.
Mr and Mrs V disagreed with NRAMs response and brought their complaint to us. NRAM 
wouldnt give its consent for us to look at all parts of Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. It would 
only agree to us looking at events that have happened in the six years before the complaint 
was made, in 2017. I issued a jurisdiction decision setting out why we could look at this 
complaint from December 2009 onwards. This was because there was an earlier record of 
Mr V complaining about this matter in 2015. 
Mr and Mrs V have fallen behind with payments for the Together loan since early 2018. To 
the best of my knowledge, the Together loan remains in arrears.
NRAM has told us that during the course of our investigation this loan has been transferred 
to a new loan owner on 11 November 2019. In June 2020 NRAM said it would complete its 
investigation into this complaint but that any new complaints will be dealt with by the new 
loan owner.
Our investigator looked at the merits of this complaint. His view was that this complaint 
should be upheld. In summary, he thought that Northern Rock and later NRAM had acted 
unfairly by continuing to apply interest of SVR plus an 8% premium on Mr and Mrs Vs 
Together Loan.
He was persuaded that Mr and Mrs V had found themselves with no choice but to 
remortgage with another lender as Northern Rock couldnt offer new interest rate products 
or new lending. He thought it could be argued that an unfair relationship had arisen due to 
an imbalance in the debtor and creditor relationship in 2008, and that Northern Rock and 
then NRAM hadnt treated Mr and Mrs V fairly or reasonably in all the circumstances. The 
investigator thought it fair that NRAM should reimburse Mr and Mrs V with the additional 
interest that had been paid, and to not apply the additional 8% interest rate premium going
forward.Mr and Mrs V accepted the investigators view of this complaint, but NRAM didnt. NRAM 
asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint and reach a final decision on the matter.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 May 2022. I set out why I thought this complaint should 
be upheld, and what I considered NRAM should do now to put things right. 
In summary, I thought that there was a reasonable basis upon which to think that a court 
may find that Mr and Mrs V had ended up in an unfair relationship as defined by Section 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act because of the way Northern Rock and NRAM exercised 
the rights under the agreement (specifically, adding the 8% premium). I set out why, based 
upon my understanding of the facts, I considered Mr and Mrs V had been trapped in an 
invidious position because NRAM was unable to offer new interest rate products or further 
lending following the collapse and nationalisation of Northern Rock. 
That meant that, if they wanted a new mortgage product (for example, to access a fixed rate 
rather than remain on the Northern Rock/NRAM SVR), they would have to delink the 
Together loan from the Together mortgage, which triggered the additional 8% interest rate 
premium. They would only be able to avoid having to pay that premium on an ongoing basis 
if they could also refinance the Together loan. 
I was persuaded that Mr and Mrs V had been unable to refinance the Together loan over the 
period that we could look at this complaint and that they found themselves paying more 
interest every month on this following their decision to move their first charge mortgage loan 
to another active lender in 2008. I thought the complaint should be upheld on this basis.
However, I was not satisfied that the term that allowed Northern Rock to add a premium to 
the Together loan was itself unfair. And I did acknowledge that NRAM had made compelling 
arguments regarding the legitimate additional costs to it, as the creditor, when Mr and Mrs 
Vs Together loan became delinked from the Together mortgage. I thought it reasonable that 
NRAM should apply some additional interest premium in recognition of the additional risks of 
default presented to the lender when the loan became delinked.
I thought the delinking premium seemed unfairly high when compared to other unsecured 
lending rates, and when compared to what Northern Rock had historically applied to such 
delinked borrowing. I thought an additional 3% interest premium seemed fair; in addition to 
the underlying interest applied at NRAMs SVR. 
Mr and Mrs V replied to say they accepted my first provisional decision. 
NRAM said it disagreed with my provisional decision for a number of reasons. NRAM set out 
in detail why it didnt think that it could reasonably be argued that an unfair relationship had 
occurred, and why it didnt believe a court would consider that this was the case. 
NRAM also queried the background to the complaint and Mr and Mrs Vs wider financial 
circumstances as set out in the provisional decision. More specifically, NRAM questioned 
whether Mr and Mrs V had in fact had further options available to them when they repaid 
their NRAM mortgage in 2008 than I had mentioned in my first provisional decision. It also 
argued that Mr and Mrs V have made the choice not to repay or refinance their Together 
loan in the years that have followed.  
In summary, NRAM said Mr and Mrs V had chosen to move to a larger property in 2008. And 
that if Mr and Mrs V had wanted to, they could have borrowed more to refinance their Together loan, rather than choosing to purchase a larger property and keep the Together 
loan in place.  
NRAM also queried whether Mr and Mrs V had acquired a second property in addition to the 
mortgaged property and whether their financial position was stronger both in 2008 and in the 
years since, with more options at Mr and Mrs Vs disposal than had been understood by the 
ombudsman in the provisional decision.
NRAM disagreed with the proposed redress to put things right in the provisional decision and 
gave reasons for this. In summary, it did not consider an interest rate term of SVR plus 8% 
to be disproportionately high or unreasonable.  
My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on 10 November 2022. In it I said:
Mr and Mrs Vs exact recollection of the sequence of events since they first took out the 
Northern Rock Together mortgage and loan in 2006 is unclear at points in time. Our 
investigator has worked with Mr and Mrs V to try to establish as much contemporaneous 
evidence as possible to build a clear picture of their options in 2008 and in the years that 
have followed. Where theres confusion or a lack of documentary evidence about what 
happened at a certain point in time, Ive based my assessment on what I think is most likely 
to have occurred based upon the balance of probabilities. 
Mr V has said that the property that was previously secured by the Northern Rock mortgage 
(which I shall refer to as Property A) was sold in 2008. And that, at that time, he and Mrs V 
purchased a larger property (Property B) which required additional borrowing. That was one 
of the key reasons Mr and Mrs V felt they had to remortgage away from their current lender. 
They wanted to get access to a lower rate of interest on their mortgage and to borrow more 
money to buy a larger home. 
In 2008, following their decision to move to another active lender, Mr and Mrs V repaid the 
Together mortgage and left the Together loan with NRAM. 
Mr and Mrs V have consistently said that they felt they had no choice but to do this. And that 
theyve been trapped within this arrangement ever since despite considering that the 
Together loan no longer offered value for money due to the increase in interest rate when 
the loan was delinked. 
As I explained in my first provisional decision, a key part of my assessment as to whether Mr 
and Mrs V had been treated unfairly was based on the very limited options available to Mr 
and Mrs V at the time the loan was delinked, and in the years that followed. In essence, I 
concluded in that decision that the options open to them were so limited that, in 
circumstances where they couldnt access further Together products with Northern 
Rock/NRAM, the decision to apply the additional 8% to the Together loan was not fair or 
reasonable.
We now have more information about Mr and Mrs Vs options at the time they sold Property 
A, bought Property B, and delinked the Together loan. Weve sought to find out whether Mr 
and Mrs Vs new lender could have offered them more funds in 2008 when they bought 
Property B. However, we havent been able to obtain a copy of the mortgage offered by 
another high street lender at that time (showing the loan to value ratio and other details). 
And we dont have documentary evidence that shows what level of additional funds were 
available to Mr and Mrs V at that time. Overall, I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs V could have borrowed enough additional funds 
when they moved house in 2008 to refinance the entire balance of their Together loan and to 
upsize to a larger, more expensive property. It isnt clear how much Mr and Mrs V borrowed 
from another lender when they purchased Property B. As Ive said, we havent been able to 
get a copy of the mortgage offer from that time. We also dont have a record of any financial 
advice given by the new lender or a broker, which may have explained options open to Mr 
and Mrs V in 2008. 
Mr and Mrs V have said their financing objective was not solely to get a new interest rate 
product in 2008. They wanted to move to a larger property that cost more money. They say 
they explored further borrowing from their current lender but were told this wasnt available 
following its collapse. I still consider the collapse and subsequent nationalisation of Mr and 
Mrs Vs lender led to the potential for unfairness for Mr and Mrs V. They faced a significantly 
reduced range of options in 2008 which couldnt have been envisaged by any party involved 
in this complaint when the mortgage and Together loan were taken out. But Im aware that 
they didnt have a guarantee that they could access further products when their fixed rate 
expired, or that Northern Rock/NRAM would continue to offer Together products into the 
future.
Ive then gone on to consider whether Mr and Mrs V have continued to be trapped with this 
unsecured borrowing over the period of time since the loan was delinked (since 2008). Ive 
thought carefully about whether Mr and Mrs V may have had the option to repay or refinance 
this unsecured borrowing in the years that followed the repayment of the mortgage, 
especially in light of them considering that the interest rate plus the additional premium did 
not provide value for money. And whether, by doing so, they could reasonably have 
mitigated their financial loss, and reduced their interest payments that have been made on 
the Together unsecured loan.  
Mr and Mrs V have told us theyve rented out Property B since 2010. They decided to do this 
as Mr V was offered a new job in another part of the country and the family needed to 
relocate at short notice. In the years that have followed, Mr and Mrs V have continued to rent 
out Property B. We havent been able to evaluate the details of the mortgage that has 
supported Property B since 2010. I think its fair to say that the value of this property has 
increased over the period that it has been rented out. I say this because Land Registry 
records indicate Mr and Mrs V have sold Property B more recently. Other evidence suggests 
this was for a higher value than they paid for the property, although that hasnt been 
confirmed by Mr and Mrs V.  
This additional information about Mr and Mrs Vs background sheds further light on their 
wider economic position, which is important when considering whether a potentially unfair 
relationship has been created. 
It now appears that Mr and Mrs V may have had the opportunity to sell Property B at an 
earlier date to repay the Together loan. Similarly, it seems they could have released further 
equity from Property B by borrowing additional funds (at a potentially lower buy-to-let 
mortgage interest rate) and repaid the unsecured Together loan sooner.
If it is confirmed that Mr and Mrs V have sold Property B since bringing this complaint, and 
yet they have chosen not to repay their Together loan, again that is a further choice they 
have decided to make. These choices are for Mr and Mrs V to make- but they have led me 
to re-evaluate the wider circumstances faced by Mr and Mrs V and the inter-relationship 
between the creditor and the debtor in this case. It now appears unlikely that Mr and Mrs V 
have faced such an invidious position since 2008 (in which they were trapped with the 
Together loan and an increasing rate of interest) that a court would have a reasonable basis 
to conclude that the relationship was unfair as a matter of law because of Northern Rock/NRAM exercising the right in the contract to add the additional 8% premium. 
I consider that  even taking Northern Rocks collapse into account - a court would only be 
likely to conclude that the relationship was unfair for the purposes of s.140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act if Mr and Mrs Vs choices were more limited than this. I dont think a 
court would conclude that it wouldnt be fair for Northern Rock/NRAM to exercise its right to 
a commercially legitimate interest premium provided for in the contract simply to allow Mr 
and Mrs V to buy a larger property. My conclusion might be different if the circumstances 
were such that Mr and Mrs V genuinely had no other option but to take out a further 
mortgage on a larger, more expensive property.
Mr and Mrs Vs submissions make it clear they consider that the Together loan no longer 
offered value for money and was not on terms that they find attractive. I have reconsidered 
Mr and Mrs Vs options both at the time the mortgage was repaid, and in the period since the 
Together loan was delinked. And I now consider that it may have been possible that Mr and 
Mrs V could have refinanced or repaid this loan sooner if they were unhappy with its terms. 
But I am satisfied that the term allowing for the 8% increase is not unfair as a matter of law 
and does not of itself create an unfair relationship.
I have some sympathy for why they think that the Together loan at the increased rate does 
not offer good value for money. I can also understand why they are unhappy that the 
additional 8% was triggered when  upon Northern Rock being nationalised - they were left 
with fewer options than they would originally have anticipated would be open to them at the 
end of their fixed term. But I dont think that is enough to say that Northern Rock/NRAM have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in adding the additional 8% in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  
As such my provisional decision is that a court would be unlikely to consider that an unfair 
relationship exists for the purposes of the Consumer Credit Act. Im no longer persuaded 
that there has been such a significant ongoing imbalance between the parties that this has 
led to the relationship between Mr and Mrs V and NRAM becoming unfair over the course of 
this complaint.
In the specific circumstances of this complaint, I consider that Mr and Mrs V have had 
options to mitigate their position regarding the Together loan in light of their lenders collapse 
but choose not to do so. For this reason, I dont consider that this complaint should be 
upheld.
Responses to my second provisional decision
NRAM has not responded to my second provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs V replied to say they were disappointed with the outcome proposed in my 
second provisional decision. They were happy with my findings in the first provisional 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs V say they dont believe they would have been able to borrow more at the time 
they remortgaged with another lender in 2008. They say lending at this time was very 
restricted and the mortgage they took would have been at the maximum amount available. 
Mr V recalls this would have been at around an 80% loan to value level, and that while there 
would have been some equity in their property, they wouldnt have been able to borrow 
anymore, or release any more equity to repay the loan at the time.Mr and Mrs V say the remortgage in 2008 enabled them to have a bigger house and lower 
interest rate which kept their mortgage payment affordable. Mr V says they reconfigured our 
finances to fit our family situation.
  
Mr and Mrs V have also said theyre worried about this loan going forward. The new loan 
owner has contacted them to say the interest rate on the Together loan has now increased 
above 14%, and that this loan is a huge financial black cloud over them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reconsidered this complaint having taken into account the further comments 
made by Mr and Mrs V. These arguments have previously shared with our service, and no 
further information has been shared about the recent sale of the mortgaged property or Mr 
and Mrs Vs changing financial position in the years since delinking the Together loan. 
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs V are disappointed that I no longer consider this complaint 
should be upheld. I am still of the opinion that Mr and Mrs V may have faced more limited 
options in 2008, in the aftermath of the collapse of their mortgage lender. But I think that a 
court would be unlikely to consider that an unfair relationship exists for the purposes of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Im no longer persuaded that there has been such a significant 
ongoing imbalance between the parties that this has led to the relationship between Mr and 
Mrs V and NRAM becoming unfair over the course of this complaint.
In Mr and Mrs Vs own words, they reconfigured their finances in 2008 to fit their family 
situation. I consider that there may have been ways in which they could have mitigated the 
cost and nature of their borrowing with NRAM in the years that followed. I think that Mr and 
Mrs V have had options to mitigate their position regarding the Together loan in the years 
that have followed their lenders collapse, but they have chosen not to do so. For this 
reason, I dont consider that this complaint should be upheld.
If Mr and Mrs V are now struggling with rising interest costs on the Together loan, they may 
wish to take advantage of debt advice to explore their options now and ways that they can 
restructure their borrowing going forward to reflect the changing economic outlook. Our 
investigator can provide details of such services if that would be useful for Mr and Mrs V.  
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given, is that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman