DRN-2299858
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont pay his home 
emergency claim for repair of a leaking pipe.
What happened
Mr W made a claim on his home emergency insurance as he had a leaking pipe. RSA 
agreed to send out its engineer and took a £50 excess from Mr W. When the engineer 
arrived he said the pipe was most likely lead, given the age of the property. As the repair 
would mean a complete replacement of the pipe system, it couldnt proceed. RSA confirmed 
to Mr W that under the terms of its policy there was an exclusion for work required to bring 
the system up to current standards. In particular it couldnt repair lead piping without 
replacing the whole system with industry approved pipework. It wouldnt return the excess, 
as this was to cover the call-out of the engineer.
On referral to this service our investigator said that RSAs decline of the claim was 
reasonable, but that it should refund the excess. 
Mr W accepted this. RSA argued that it was entitled to retain the excess and could charge 
Mr W a further £25 to reflect the full call-out charge.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to bear in mind that this is a home emergency policy, where what an insurer will do is 
much more limited than in an ordinary home insurance policy. The policy allows for 
assistance to be provided in the event of a blockage, collapse or leakage of the water supply 
pipe, but is generally intended as an emergency repair. If more extensive work is needed it 
wont normally be covered. Here the engineer identified that the pipe was likely to be a lead 
pipe. Current industry standards dont allow for the repair of a lead pipe, except by complete 
replacement. The engineer said that the whole system would likely need to be replaced. 
RSA relies on the following exclusion:
Improvements including work that is needed to bring the insured system up to current 
standards
I think it fair for that exclusion to be applied. RSA has said that if after excavation of the pipe 
it is found not to be lead, it will reconsider. Theres also the possibility that Mr W might be 
able to claim under his home insurance. I think RSA has acted reasonably in this case.
Turning to the excess, as required by the policy, an excess of £50 was taken, before the 
engineer would attend. I understand why that would be the case, as it would be expected 
that the engineer would carry out a repair rather than merely inspect the damage. But when 
the engineer came out he didnt actually carry out any work, but informed Mr W that the 
policy wouldnt cover a complete replacement of the system which was what was needed.
The policy doesnt say anything about the excess being non-refundable. So the excess can 
only be applied if it comes within the policy terms. Those terms define excess as:
the first amount of each claim, payable by you to the helpline before the approved
engineer will attend. This payment will be taken by the helpline before assistance is
provided
And assistance is defined as:
the reasonable efforts made by the approved engineer during a visit to the home to
complete a repair or replacement
Firstly no claim proceeded, so there was no first amount to be paid. Also I dont think any 
attempt to complete a repair was made. The engineer merely confirmed that the policy 
wouldnt cover such a repair. I think the call-out charge has to be regarded as a charge RSA 
had to incur to decide it wouldnt be covering the claim. And as the policy doesnt say 
anything about the excess being retained in those circumstances I think RSA must refund it 
to Mr W.
RSA says the following exclusion applies
We shall not be liable for costs arising from or in connection with: 
4 Events where on attendance it becomes clear that the call out is not covered by your 
policy;
I dont see that as applicable to payment of the call-out charge, where no work was 
undertaken. Rather I think it applies to costs arising because the claim isnt covered. Again 
its not clear about how this applies to the excess.
Finally RSA says Mr W had the benefit of its engineers diagnosis. No report was drawn up 
and the diagnosis was that the leak probably came from a lead pipe. I dont think that is the 
giving of assistance. The engineer merely established that the policy wouldnt cover the 
damage.
Putting things right
RSA should refund the excess of £50 to Mr W. For the avoidance of doubt it shouldnt seek 
to recover the call-out charge from Mr W.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to act in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman