DRN-2583679
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2000 
when he applied for a credit card.
Mr M wants more compensation for his distress and inconvenience caused by 
the way Barclays Bank handled his complaint.
What happened
Mr M complained to this Service. He bought a PPI policy in 2000 by completing a leaflet in a 
branch of Barclays Bank. He says he wasnt aware it had been added to his credit card 
account; he says he did not know he was paying extra money as nothing about insurance 
was explained to him. He says he didnt need it as he was in a secure job, he had savings 
and was fit and healthy at the time of the sale. 
Barclays Bank rejected Mr Ms complaint, but it offered to pay him £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused by taking time to complete his identification confirmation and 
account history. 
And Barclays Bank also said that it doesnt have to give back any of the commission or profit 
share Mr M paid from his policy  because the rules and guidance about this dont apply to 
his complaint.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and thought the complaint should not be upheld; they 
thought the offer of £50 was a fair outcome and they thought that what Barclays Bank had 
said about commission and profit share was right.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr M's PPI mis-sale complaint. I 
know this will be a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Barclays Bank made it clear the policy was an optional product. 
Barclays Bank produced a copy of Mr M's credit card application. I can see there was a 
separate section of the form headed Payment Protection Plan and there are Yes and 
No boxes on the form. So I think Barclays Bank did present PPI as an optional product. 
There was a cross in the Yes box requesting PPI to be added to Mr Ms account. I can 
see Mr M signed the credit card application and entered his personal details and I noted he 
declined other offers on the form. So I think he (or the Barclays Bank adviser) completed 
the form diligently by choosing the products he wanted. As he signed the form, I think it is 
reasonable to conclude he checked that he agreed with the contents before signing. I think 
his signature means Barclays Bank probably made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out 
the PPI and yet he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not 
remember this.
The policy was recommended so Barclays Bank had to make sure the policy was suitable 
for him. I think it probably was suitable for him. I say this because he was eligible to buy 
the policy; it seems it was affordable, and he wasnt affected by the main things not 
covered by the policy (the exclusions). 
Mr M said he had good sick pay from his employer, he had savings of around £3,000.00 
and he was in good health at the time of the sale. However, the PPI cover could have paid 
out for 12 months on a successful claim, leaving his sick pay and savings for other 
expenses. So I dont think his financial circumstances at the time of the sale made the 
policy less suitable for him.
Its possible the information about the cost and benefits given to Mr M about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it could have been, however I dont know what other details were explained to 
him at the branch. So as I think he probably chose to take it out, it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. I 
think the PPI could have been useful if he wasnt able to work or had lost his job. So even if 
he had been given more detailed information about the cost and benefits, I dont think it 
would have put him off from buying the PPI.
Barclays Bank should also have pointed out the exclusions. I don't know how it did this, 
but it does not appear that Mr M was affected by the main exclusions. So - even if hed 
been given a full list of them - I dont think it would have put him off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional, it 
was suitable for Mr M and he was probably given enough information to make an 
informed decision. So I am not going to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint.
The PPI commission
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. Barclays Bank has given me information that shows Mr Ms credit card was taken out in 
2000 and ended in 2003. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply 
here.
So Barclays Bank doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr M paid for the PPI he 
had with his credit card.
Compensation for Mr Ms Distress and Inconvenience
Barclays Bank offered to pay Mr M £50.00 for the distress and inconvenience it caused for 
taking time to complete his identification confirmation and account history. To his credit, Mr 
M stayed in contact throughout the identification process with Barclays Bank and complied 
with requests for further information. 
However, I do appreciate that Barclays Bank must be sure it is dealing with the correct 
account holder before it releases private account information  and this may take time to sort 
out. I think the offer of £50.00 is fair and so I reject Mr Ms complaint for more compensation.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman