DRN-3771759
The complaint
Miss Es complaint is that when she applied for an annuity with Scottish Widows Limited 
(Scottish Widows) she didnt get the guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). Scottish Widows says 
the application was received too late. Miss E says it was Scottish Widows fault that her 
application was delayed and so she should get the GAR. 
What happened
Miss E has a pension policy with Scottish Widows. It included a GAR available at Miss Es 
selected retirement date (SRD) which was 23 September 2021. Scottish Widows wrote to 
Miss E on 11 August 2021. The letter said that information about her pension, including its 
value, had recently been sent to her to help her get a better understanding of her retirement 
options. And that her retirement date was only a few weeks away and Scottish Widows 
needed to know what shed like to do with her pension. Miss E was asked to call Scottish 
Widows before 23 September 2021. The letter said, if Miss E didnt get in touch before her 
retirement date, she could lose a very valuable guarantee. I think a reminder letter may also 
have been sent on 9 September 2021.
 
Miss E telephoned Scottish Widows on 20 September 2021 to tell Scottish Widows she 
wanted to take the GAR. She was told that a 90 day extension had been given to complete 
her application. That extra time had been given to all customers as, due to the Covid 
pandemic, Scottish Widows was operating its business remotely. Scottish Widows needed to 
receive Miss Es completed application by 23 December 2021. Miss E called again the next 
day and Scottish Widows also called her back. A call with the annuities team was booked for 
30 September 2021. A written annuity quotation was sent to Miss E on 21 September 2021. 
It said her pension fund was £25,409.33 which would buy an annuity paying an estimated 
annual income of £2.309.96 from her SRD.
 
Following the call on 30 September 2021 Scottish Widows sent Miss E various written 
quotations. I understand they all included the following:
You are entitled to a guaranteed annuity rate from 23/09/2021 paying an estimated annual 
income of £1,732.47. This is only available if you choose to have your annuity paid on the 
basis set out in your policy provisions. This differs from the basis set out in the annuity 
features above. You will lose this entitlement if you accept our quote.
 
Miss E had some queries about that statement. She called Scottish Widows on 23 
November 2021. She was told she needed to speak to the annuities team again. A call was 
booked for 7 December 2021. Further written information and quotations were sent following 
the call. Miss E sent her completed application form by post to Scottish Widows. Scottish 
Widows says it wasnt received until 6 January 2022. As that was after the 23 December 
2021 deadline and the year end, the GAR was no longer available. The annuity was set up 
using the standard annuity rate. Miss E cancelled the annuity. Scottish Widows wrote to her 
on 11 March 2022 confirming the annuity had been cancelled.
 
Miss E had by then complained to Scottish Widows that the GAR hadnt been provided due 
to delays caused by Scottish Widows. A final response was issued on 15 February 2022. 
Scottish Widows accepted that the service Miss E had received couldve been better and 
offered £150  made up of £75 for the inconvenience and £75 to make sure Miss E wasnt 
out of pocket for the call charges. 
But Scottish Widows didnt agree that the GAR should be provided. It said Miss E had 90 
days from 23 September 2021 to return her completed application form. As that was so 
close to Christmas, Scottish Widows wouldve still accepted it if it had been received before 
the year end. But the application form wasnt received until 6 January 2022, so it was unable 
to provide the GAR. The final response letter dealt with other issues, including why an 
appointment was required and the quality of the telephone service Miss E had received. 
Miss E referred her complaint to us. On her complaint form she said her complaint was 
primarily Scottish Widows refusal to set up an annuity based on the GAR and instead 
issuing an annuity using the standard annuity rate. She also said that not all aspects of her 
complaint had been considered and the cancellation process had been flawed. Shed 
suffered considerable stress and anxiety in consequence of the whole experience. 
Information provided prior to her SRD was inadequate and misleading. Shed only been 
asked to telephone by 23 September 2021 to say what she wanted to do, that is confirm if 
she did or didnt want the annuity. 
Her pension fund is small and wont pay very much even with the GAR. But thats more than 
twice what shell get based on the standard annuity rate so Scottish Widows refusal to 
honour the GAR will substantially reduce her income. She maintained that the process 
adopted by Scottish Widows had caused the loss of the GAR. She set out in detail what had 
happened. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She 
acknowledged that having to prebook some calls was time consuming but said it hadnt 
unfairly delayed the application. Miss E had raised concerns about when her application had 
been received but the date of receipt was evidenced by the date stamp. There was nothing 
to suggest Scottish Widows hadnt acted in good faith. Scottish Widows had given Miss E 
enough time to consider her options. Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for any postal 
issues. If Miss E had contacted Scottish Widows when shed received the letter giving her 
six weeks notice, its likely her application wouldve been in time. Scottish Widows had 
offered £150 because of the number of calls Miss E had to make which was a reasonable 
amount to cover the cost and the frustrations caused. 
Miss E didnt accept the investigators view. She said key points had been ignored. In 
summary: 
The letter dated 11 August 2021 indicated she only had to contact Scottish Widows 
by 23 September 2021 to inform them of her decision which she did on 20 
September 2021  she said she wanted to take the GAR annuity. But Scottish 
Widows wouldnt give effect to her request without requiring her to follow what she 
termed their opaque process with its built in delays and which caused the loss of the 
GAR. Shed received a similar letter from another pension provider who acted on her 
instructions on her first call. 
Although the options were presented as additional benefits it became clear during the 
call on 7 December 2021 that the information shed been given earlier had been 
wrong and many of the options would result in her receiving less money. A 
considerable amount of time was wasted because of the incorrect information given 
on 30 September 2021. The quotations had a false statement saying her entitlement 
to the GAR would be lost if the quotation was accepted. That had resulted in her 
application being sent in December 2021 rather than November 2021. She shouldve been given extra time to take account of that. Shed never received an explanation as 
to why the false statements had been included.
Her SRD meant shed been disadvantaged. And she hadnt been treated fairly 
because the Government had ended the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (CJRS) 
during the 90 day period and which Scottish Widows admitted meant a significant 
number of queries were received, causing delays in their response times. The 90 day 
period shouldve been extended. 
She hadnt accepted an annuity at the standard rate and there was no legal basis for 
Scottish Widows to set up that annuity. Shed given instructions for the annuity to be 
cancelled and had a letter confirming its cancellation. But she hadnt had 
confirmation that the money had been returned to the policy or notification of any 
bonus. 
The investigator considered the points Miss E had raised but she didnt change her view. 
Amongst other things she said Scottish Widows had written on 11 August 2021 to let Miss E 
know her SRD was approaching and that she needed to contact Scottish Widows before 
then or else lose a valuable benefit. Miss E, along with all other customers, had been given 
an extra 90 days. 
During the call on 20 September 2021 the agent had explained the options but was unable 
to give advice. He also explained the GAR features and that it would only apply if benefits 
were taken at SRD, taking into account the 90 day extension. Miss E wanted to discuss the 
GAR and a call had to be arranged with a different team. An appointment was made within a 
week  30 September 2021. That gave enough time to submit a completed application by 23 
December 2021. Scottish Widows also sent a letter following the call on 20 September 2021 
outlining Miss Es options ahead of the call on 30 September 2021. 
Although there was some confusion about some of the information on the quotes, the 
investigator thought the basis on which theyd been generated had been made clear. Miss E 
was told the only way the GAR wouldnt be available was if the application didnt reach 
Scottish Widows by the end of the year. Miss E confirmed she understood the importance of 
making a final decision by then. Unfortunately, although the application was posted in 
advance, Scottish Widows didnt receive it until 6 January 2022 and so the GAR was lost. 
Miss E didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said 
the key issue was that false information had been included in the quotations. It hadnt just 
caused confusion but had undermined the information given in the quotations and during the 
call on 30 September 2021 and was the direct cause of her application being sent in 
December 2021 rather than November 2021 and allegedly not received in time. Shed said, 
during each of the early calls, that shed decided to take the GAR annuity. But that decision 
couldnt be recorded without going through the rest of Scottish Widows lengthy process. The 
information shed been given (copies of which she supplied) was general and specific details 
as to payments had only been given during the call on 30 September 2021. 
The investigator told Miss E and Scottish Widows that the matter would be referred to an 
ombudsman. Miss E stressed that Scottish Widows processes and actions were the cause 
of the annuity not being on the basis of the GAR to which she was entitled. Scottish Widows 
was at fault yet shed be penalised if Scottish Widows wasnt required to reissue the annuity 
using the GAR. She referred to the issues shed highlighted earlier. She also wanted 
confirmation as to whether wed heard from Scottish Widows about the cancellation of the 
annuity, not providing a bonus notice and the continuation of monthly payments despite 
cancellation. After contacting Scottish Widows, the investigator told Miss E that the annuity remained in 
force but it could be cancelled. Miss E would need to return the monthly payments shed 
received. A separate complaint about the failure to cancel the policy could be set up.
In response Miss E said shed already instructed Scottish Widows to cancel the annuity. And 
shed received confirmation by letter that the annuity had been cancelled on 16 February 
2022. Shed been told no payments had been made, the capital would be returned to the 
policy and shed receive future bonuses. But the first annuity payment (including back 
payments) was made in January 2022 and payments had continued since then. Shed 
contacted Scottish Widows and been told that shed be contacted about the return of the 
payments but shed hadnt heard. The non cancellation was a further example of inadequate, 
misleading and false information provided by Scottish Widows. Its actions were the root 
cause of all the issues which had arisen in relation to the processing of her annuity. 
Scottish Widows told us it was unclear why the cancellation request hadnt been fully 
processed in March 2022. We asked Miss E if she wanted the cancellation to go ahead and 
return the payments that had been made. She replied more recently saying shed hoped a 
decision wouldve been made by now. She said it was unacceptable that Scottish Widows 
couldnt say why the cancellation hadnt been processed. She didnt think a new complaint 
was appropriate as it had all arisen out of the same circumstances, She said it appeared that 
the annuity had now been cancelled as the last payment shed received had been in 
November 2022. But she still hadnt been contacted about the repayment. And the payment 
dates given and other details were wrong. 
We sent a copy of Miss Es letter to Scottish Widows. It said it hadnt set up a new complaint 
or asked Miss E to return the payments. Given the time elapsed and taking into account 
everything else, Scottish Widows was happy to write off the payments by way of an apology. 
Scottish Widows later confirmed the cancellation had been actioned and the overpayments 
written off. Miss E could contact Scottish Widows with her instructions for the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered everything. Ive paid particular attention to what Miss E said on her 
complaint form and in her responses to the investigators view. But, in setting out my 
conclusions, Ive focused on what I see as central to the complaint. 
I can see Miss E feels very strongly that she was let down by Scottish Widows and that it 
was Scottish Widows fault she didnt secure her annuity at the GAR. I understand thats 
come at quite a cost to Miss E. But I can only uphold her complaint and say that Scottish 
Widows should pay her the GAR if Im satisfied that Scottish Widows did something wrong 
(or failed to do something it shouldve done) and which led to Miss E not being able to 
secure the GAR. I know Miss E will be disappointed but, although Ive set things out in more 
detail, I agree with the investigator and with the reasons she gave as to why she wasnt 
upholding the complaint. 
Ive considered first what I understand to be the key aspect of Miss Es complaint  that the 
written quotations sent following the call on 30 September 2021 contained false information. 
Miss E is referring here to the statement that the GAR would be lost if she accepted any of 
the quotations. Miss E called on 23 November 2021 to query that but again a call with a 
specialist team was needed. The earliest that call could be booked, and despite Miss E 
explaining that she wouldnt be left with much time, was 7 December 2021. Miss E says, but for that two week delay, her application wouldve been received two weeks earlier and 
before the year end and so in time. 
But, rather than just concentrating on any particular period of delay, Ive instead looked at 
how things progressed overall and if the 90 days Scottish Widows allowed (and it was a bit 
more given that Scottish Widows wouldve accepted the application if it had been received 
by the year end) was enough time. I know Miss E considers the onus is on the business. But 
I have to be fair to both parties. So Ive taken into account not just how Scottish Widows 
handled the matter but also what Miss E did (or didnt do) and taken a more overall view. 
Miss E has described Scottish Widows procedures as unnecessarily bureaucratic. Her 
position is that she complied with Scottish Widows letter of 11 August 2021 by calling on 20 
September 2021 and telling Scottish Widows that she wanted to take the GAR annuity. I 
note what Miss E has said about another providers procedures being more straightforward  
to the extent that just a single telephone call was required to set up an annuity. 
In determining whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case Im required to 
take into account, amongst other things, what I consider (where appropriate) to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time. But, although other providers may have dealt 
with an annuity purchase more quickly and in a way which Miss E might consider easier, that 
doesnt mean Scottish Widows didnt comply with good industry practice at the time. It 
seems Scottish Widows adopted a procedure aimed at ensuring the customer fully 
understood all their options. And we wont usually interfere in the processes a business has 
in place. Generally wed regard that as an operational decision for the business concerned. 
Miss E says she initially thought all she needed to do was get in contact with Scottish 
Widows before 23 September 2021. It seems she was initially hoping, as she was still 
working, she might be able to change her SRD and retain the GAR. But she knew, from her 
conversations on 20 and 21 September 2021, that wasnt possible and so shed need to 
investigate her options. And, importantly, shed been told she had 90 days from 23 
September 2021 to get her completed application form to Scottish Widows if she wanted to 
secure the GAR. She was also aware that her queries about the GAR had to be dealt with by 
another team, hence a call was arranged for 30 September 2021. She then had to await the 
written quotations sent out after that call and which took two weeks to arrive which meant 
she didnt get them until mid October 2021. 
But it then wasnt until 23 November 2021 that she called Scottish Widows. It may be 
unfortunate that Miss Es query couldnt be dealt with there and then on the day and which 
meant a further call had to be booked with 7 December 2021 being the earliest available 
date. But Miss E wouldve been aware, from her earlier dealings, that might happen. And 
shed had from mid October 2021 until 23 November 2021  about six weeks  to look at the 
information shed been sent and query anything she didnt understand. Miss E knew the 
application was time critical. She may have thought she had ample time but, unfortunately, 
when she came to complete the application form, she realised she needed to query 
something.
I can see why Miss E may have been confused by the statement which appeared on all the 
written quotations shed been sent. But the position was clearly explained to her during the 
call on 7 December 2021  that all the quotations were based on the GAR but, if Miss E 
changed the basis of the annuity (from single life, no escalation, no guarantee and annually 
in arrears) shed get less money. Im not sure the agent went as far as agreeing that the 
statement shouldnt have been included on the quotations. The agent said the quotations 
included generic wording and the specifics could be discussed with Scottish Widows. I take Miss Es point that if the statements hadnt been included she wouldnt have had to 
call Scottish Widows on 23 November 2021 or have the call with the annuities team on 7 
December 2021. So that two week delay wouldve been avoided and her application 
wouldve been submitted earlier. But, on the other hand, and regardless of whether the 
statement shouldve been included or not, if Miss E had looked at the information shed been 
sent earlier, shed have realised she needed to query something and she couldve done so 
earlier. Which wouldve also meant her application wouldve been submitted earlier. 
And, although the main reason for Miss Es call was to query the statement on the 
quotations, she did ask for more information. During the call there was some debate as to 
whether she required further quotations. In the end she did ask for more quotations to be 
generated showing what amounts shed receive if payments were made on a quarterly basis. 
So, and leaving aside her query about the statement, she may have wanted further 
information anyway when she got round to completing the application form and so the delay 
would still have arisen. 
But, and leaving all that aside, I think there was still sufficient time, following the call on 7 
December 2021 and factoring in time for Miss E to receive and consider the further 
quotations, for her to get her completed application to Scottish Widows in time. And thats 
Miss Es position  she says, as things stood, she posted the completed form back to 
Scottish Widows in good time. 
I dont think Miss Es said what date she actually posted the application form. She says she 
posted it first class in a priority post box prior to Christmas. The form was dated 22 
December 2021 so thats the earliest it couldve been posted. That was a Wednesday. The 
next day, 23 December 2021, was a working day as was 24 December 2021. But I bear in 
mind that some offices, including post rooms, may have closed early on Christmas Eve so 
receipt of mail may have been disrupted. After that, Scottish Widows wouldve been closed 
on Monday and Tuesday 27 and 28 December 2021 being Bank Holidays. That left 29, 30 
and 31 December that week. Miss Es said she didnt consider sending the application by 
special delivery as she thought there was time for it to get there by 31 December 2021 as 
there were three working days between Christmas and the New Year. 
But, given the proximity to Christmas and the potential for disruption to the post, I think 
others might have erred on the side of caution and used a guaranteed delivery and tracked 
postal service. In my view, posting the application on, say, 22 December 2021, meant there 
was a risk that delivery might be held up and so the application form wouldnt be received in 
time. Miss E may have thought there was sufficient time. But it was her responsibility to 
ensure Scottish Widows received the application before the end of the year. 
Miss E has referred to what she terms the deemed service rules. Theres a provision in 
contract law which says a properly addressed postal acceptance is deemed complete when 
the letter of acceptance is posted and regardless of whether the letter is later received or 
not. But I dont think it applies here. Im not sure the annuity quotation constituted an offer 
which Miss E could accept by posting her application form. And, in any event, Scottish 
Widows had specified that it needed to actually receive the completed application form by 
the time specified. Nor do I think any civil procedure rules relating to the service by 
documents by post are applicable here. 
Scottish Widows has said the application form wasnt received until 6 January 2022 as 
evidenced by the date stamp. Miss E says that isnt conclusive. I agree its in theory possible 
that, for whatever reason, the letter was delivered earlier and somehow was only date 
stamped on a later date. Where, as here, what happened isnt agreed, I have to decide 
whats likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence Ive seen (and which may 
be incomplete or disputed) and the wider circumstances. I think Scottish Widows would have a reasonably robust system in place to monitor and 
record the date of receipt of incoming mail, especially given that deadlines for submitting 
applications and other documents could apply. I dont have any reason to think the date 
stamp doesnt show the actual date Miss Es application was received by Scottish Widows. 
Delivery of mail over the Christmas period can sometimes be erratic and that can persist for 
several weeks. I think its more likely the document was held up in the postal service and not 
delivered to Scottish Widows until 6 January 2022. While that might not be Miss Es fault, 
neither can I say Scottish Widows is responsible. As Ive said it was up to Miss E to make 
sure the application was received in time. 
Miss E has referred to the end of the CJRS on 30 September 2021 which was after Scottish 
Widows had agreed to give all customers an extra 90 days. I think Miss Es point is that 
Scottish Widows shouldve extended the time again on the basis that the end of the CJRS 
would generate further enquiries. Scottish Widows decision to grant the extension and any 
subsequent decisions not to extend that time further were commercial decisions for Scottish 
Widows. And, in any event and looking at the time Miss E actually had, I think it was 
reasonable and sufficient for her to be able to make her application before the deadline. 
I dont think the timing meant that the 90 days operated less favourably in Miss Es case than 
for other customers whose SRD was earlier in the year. In any event, Scottish Widows did 
recognise there might be postal delays over the Christmas period. Miss E had been told 
during the call on 7 December 2021 that Scottish Widows recognised that post might be held 
up over Christmas and thered be no problem so long as the application form was received 
by the end of the year. 
I think Scottish Widows stance was reasonable and, notwithstanding the difficulties Miss E 
has cited, gave sufficient time for her to decide what she wanted to do and make sure her 
application was received by Scottish Widows in time. Although Miss E has said the 
quotations didnt have expiry dates and so the annuity could still have been set up using the 
GAR, the point is that Scottish Widows had made it clear to Miss E that the GAR was only 
available if her application was received before the year end. Unfortunately it wasnt and so 
Scottish Widows wasnt obliged to set up the annuity on the basis of the GAR. 
Im sorry to see there were problems after Miss E had told Scottish Widows she didnt want 
the (non GAR) annuity that had been set up. Despite confirming to Miss E that the annuity 
had been cancelled, payments continued to be made for some months. Scottish Widows 
was unable to say why that had happened. But in the end it decided not to ask Miss E to 
return the payments which, according to Scottish Widows, totalled £794.40. Its up to Miss E 
to let Scottish Widows know what she wants to do with the policy. It seems she was holding 
off doing that until she had an outcome on her complaint and on the basis that Scottish 
Widows might be required to pay an annuity based on the GAR. Now that a final decision is 
being issued I assume Miss E will get in touch with Scottish Widows to see what her options 
are and let Scottish Widows know what she wants to do. 
Although I know Miss E will be disappointed Im unable to uphold her complaint and say that 
Scottish Widows must set up an annuity based on the GAR. As Ive explained Id only do 
that if I agreed the loss of the GAR was down to Scottish Widows and I dont think that was 
the case. Essentially I think Scottish Widows gave Miss E enough time and it was up to her 
to make sure Scottish Widows received her completed application by the end of the year and 
unfortunately that deadline wasnt met. 
Scottish Widows initially offered Miss E £150 for inconvenience and to cover the cost of the 
telephone calls. I dont think that sum was ever paid as Miss E didnt accept the offer. 
Scottish Life has admitted that its service was, in some respects, poor. I note Miss Es comments about difficulties in getting through on the telephone, lengthy and expensive calls, 
being passed to different agents and having to explain things again each time. But shes 
since had the benefit of the annuity payments which she hasnt got to return. I think thats 
sufficient compensation for any distress, anxiety and expense Miss E has suffered because 
of any failings on Scottish Widows part. I dont think Scottish Widows needs to do any more.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Es complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman