DRN-4219138
The complaint
Mr I complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) has unreasonably 
harassed him to pay an outstanding debt. 
What happened
Cabot says that it purchased a defaulted credit card debt in Mr Is name in early 2020. At 
that time, the original lender (O) and Cabot sent Mr I Notices of Assignment that set out the 
new arrangements. Cabot started reporting a default on Mr Is credit file. Cabot went on to 
contact Mr I and request repayment of the outstanding balance. 
Mr I obtained a copy of the original credit agreement and complained that they were signed 
online and that the format of the date wasnt correct. Mr I also said the credit agreement 
didnt make provisions for O to assign or sell the debt to a third party. Mr I has told us that 
because of the issues hes highlighted he doesnt believe the credit agreement can be 
enforced in court by Cabot. 
Cabot issued a final response but didnt agree it had harassed Mr I for repayment. In 
addition, Cabot didnt agree that the issues raised with the credit agreement meant the 
balance wasnt due. But in February 2023 Cabot took the decision to close Mr Is account 
and no longer pursue him for the outstanding balance. Cabot has confirmed that the default 
will remain on Mr Is credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Is complaint. They obtained a copy of the 
associated terms and conditions for the credit card with O and said there was provision for 
the debt to be assigned or sold to a third party. The investigator also said that legal 
arguments concerning whether the credit agreement is enforceable are a matter for the 
courts. 
Mr I asked to appeal and his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr I has made a number of arguments concerning whether the debt can be legally enforced 
by Cabot in court. I understand Mr I is concerned that the credit agreement was signed 
online and that the format of the date isnt in line with whats generally used within the UK. 
But the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service and we 
decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. Its not our role to say whether a credit 
agreement can be enforced in court. Thats a matter for the courts to decide. Ive taken what 
Mr I has told us into account along with the relevant rules and regulations Cabot operates 
under when deciding how to fairly resolve his complaint. I havent been persuaded that it 
was unreasonable for Cabot to rely on the credit agreement supplied by O when contacting 
Mr I about the outstanding balance. 
Mr I has pointed out the credit agreement didnt make a provision for the debt to be 
assigned, or sold, to a third party. But the investigator obtained a copy of the associated 
terms and conditions that were supplied by O at the point the credit card was opened. I can 
see that the top of Os credit agreement refers to the terms and conditions in addition to the 
information contained. So Im satisfied its more likely than not that the terms and conditions 
were supplied at the time the application was completed online. 
The associated terms and conditions say O could transfer its rights to a third party at any 
time without notice. The terms says O will notify the borrower if it takes that step. I can also 
see that Cabot issued a Notice of Assignment to notify Mr I of the change in arrangements 
when it purchased the credit card debt from O. Having reviewed the associated terms and 
conditions Im satisfied there is provision for the debt to be assigned to a new owner and that 
the relevant steps were followed. 
Ive also reviewed the level and nature of contact Mr I received from Cabot. I understand 
why Mr I was frustrated to be contacted by Cabot but I havent been persuaded that theres 
evidence that shows hes been harassed. As Im satisfied Cabot purchased a valid debt in 
Mr Is name from O, I havent been persuaded it was unreasonable for it to contact him to 
discuss repayments. 
Ultimately, Cabot has taken the decision to close Mr Is account and not pursue him for the 
outstanding balance. Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances of Mr Is case. Cabot has 
confirmed that whilst its not seeking repayment from Mr I, it will continue to record the 
default on his credit file until 2026, when its six years old. As the debt hasnt been repaid 
and Im satisfied it was legitimately acquired by Cabot, I havent found grounds to tell it to 
remove the default from Mr Is credit file. 
As Im satisfied that Cabot dealt with Mr Is complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman