DRN-3879710
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined a claim she 
made under her Home Insurance Policy.
What happened
Mrs M contacted Admiral to make a claim on her policy after her hearing aid was damaged 
by one of her dogs. The hearing aids were a specified item on the cover, for which Mrs M 
says she paid an extra premium. 
Admiral declined the claim, relying on the policy terms to do so. 
Our Investigator looked at Mrs Ms complaint, however they didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. They thought Admiral had acted fairly by relying on the policy terms to decline the 
claim. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She said if she had known the hearing aids wouldnt be covered for this 
type of damage then she wouldnt have taken the cover out. She says the policy exclusions 
werent made clear to her when she took out the cover. And that because the hearing aids 
were insured separately, different terms should apply. Mrs M reiterated that the hearing aids 
are essential to her day to day life. 
Because Mrs M didnt agree with the Investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I am 
very sorry to disappoint Mrs M, its clear that she feels very strongly about her complaint, 
and this is understandable given the impact the damaged hearing aid is having on her. 
In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mrs 
M has found herself in. But being independent means I have to take a step back and 
consider what both parties have said and take into account the evidence available. I have to 
look to see if Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably when taking the decision to decline 
Mrs Ms claim. And I think it has.
I can see that Mrs Ms hearing aids were insured as specified items under the policy. The 
policy states that it will cover singular items of a value of up to £1,000  any singular items 
over this amount would need to be specified under the cover, which I can see Mrs M has 
done. But just because the hearing aids were specified items, it doesnt mean they were 
covered for everything that might go wrong or happen to them. The policy documents 
confirm the types of risk Admiral were willing to cover, and what risks it wouldnt cover. 
Section 2 of the policy documents refers to the contents cover provided under the policy  
Mrs Ms specified items (hearing aids) were covered under this. 
The documents state that:
 The following exclusions apply to contents accidental damage (i) (ii) and (iii).
We will not pay for loss or damage.
..caused by pets, through chewing, scratching, tearing, fouling or vomiting. 
Mrs M also has Cover away from your home, and while the hearing aids are covered under 
this part of the policy, there is an exclusion that states that specified items are not covered 
for Loss or damage caused by any living creature, including pets. 
Mrs M has confirmed that the damage to her hearing aid was caused by a pet. And given 
that the policy documents state that it wouldnt cover this type of damage, I cant fairly say 
that Admiral has done anything wrong in declining the claim. 
I appreciate that Mrs M has said that the hearing aid could have been lost, for which I 
assume shes saying that Admiral might have paid out in these circumstances. But that didnt 
happen in this case, Mrs M told Admiral that the damage was caused by a pet. So, I think 
Admiral has fairly relied on the terms of the policy when assessing the claim. 
I have noted Mrs Ms comments that she wouldnt have taken out the cover had she been 
aware Admiral wouldnt have covered her for damage caused by pets. And that she thinks 
this should have been pointed out to her by Admiral. But Admiral didnt have to draw Mrs Ms 
attention to every exclusion in the policy  this wouldnt be reasonable. Mrs M has sent this 
service a screen shot from Admirals website which shows some of the main exclusions of 
the cover, and this doesnt include damage caused by pets. But the screenshot shes sent 
also states Yes, there are times when your items wont be covered. You can read the full list 
of exclusions in the policy booklet. So I think it was clear Mrs M would need to refer to the 
policy document to read more about other exclusions.
I do have a lot of sympathy for Mrs Ms situation. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I 
cant fairly say that Admiral has done anything wrong in declining the claim. 
I understand that Mrs M has also made reference to a hearing aid she has potentially lost 
too. I havent considered this as part of this decision. If Mrs M does want to make a separate 
claim for the lost hearing aid, shell need to contact Admiral direct in the first instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman