DRN-1808591
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited allowed too little time for 
him to investigate and decide his pension options. 
What happened
Mr W had a personal pension with Prudential.  In a letter dated 6 July 2011, he told 
Prudential he was intending to retire towards the end of September 2011. This was a change 
to his selected retirement date, which was originally expected to happen the following year. 
Whilst Mr W indicated he was intending to take a lump sum and buy an annuity, he said hed 
like information on the range of options available. So, he asked Prudential to confirm the 
process for telling him about his pension options and when that process would start. 
Prudential responded on 11 July 2011. It said it usually issued retirement quotes around a 
month before the intended retirement date - so in Mr Ws case it said that would be about 31 
August 2011. It said any quotes it gave could be guaranteed for a maximum of four weeks. 
Prudential indicated that the options available to Mr W at retirement were: 
take a tax-free cash lump sum with a reduced pension. The maximum amount we can 
currently offer as a tax-free lump sum is 25% of the fund value. The remainder of your fund 
would then be used to purchase an annuity which is payable throughout your lifetime;
to convert the whole of your pension to buy an annuity income from Prudential;
to select to take an income and cash sum between 55 and 75. After 75, you no
longer can take a cash sum, only an income is available;
to buy an income with another annuity provider using the open market option 
Mr W wrote to Prudential on 16 July 2011. Amongst other things, he acknowledged that 
unless he heard otherwise, hed next expect to hear from Prudential in August 2011. 
Prudential says it sent the quote on 30 August 2011 (together with a key-facts document) 
and it made a follow up call to Mr W on 7 September 2011. According to its records, Mr W 
told it he hadn't yet looked at the quotes hed received.  
Mr W called Prudential on 13 September 2011 and said he wanted it to send him a quote for 
the open market option. Prudential did that on 19 September 2011 and also sent Mr W the 
relevant forms to complete. 
A financial adviser wrote to Prudential on Mr Ws behalf on 23 September 2011, indicating 
he was looking to transfer his pension fund to another provider. Mr W then contacted 
Prudential confirming he wanted to buy his annuity with Prudential instead and he said his 
application to transfer his pension to another provider had been cancelled. The financial 
adviser gave similar confirmation to Prudential. 
Prudential contacted Mr W in February 2019. It asked him - as part of an industry wide 
review set up by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - whether he felt hed had enough 
information when he took out his pension annuity - particularly about medical conditions that 
might have led to an enhanced annuity. Mr W indicated he had no particular concerns about 
the information hed received, but he did complain about the short amount of time he was 
given by Prudential to consider his pension options. 
Prudential responded to Mr Ws complaint in February 2019. It didnt uphold it. It said it 
hadnt given Mr W financial advice as it sold the annuity as a direct sale. And, contrary to 
Mr Ws suggestion that hed felt rushed into making a decision, Prudential said it was 
satisfied it acted in a timely manner when responding to his notification of his earlier 
retirement date and when preparing quotes. And based on the responses Mr W then gave 
(including when indicating he eventually decided not to risk moving his pension fund when 
the economy was unstable) Prudential felt he had a good understanding so as to enable him 
to make an informed decision. 
In August 2019, Prudential contacted Mr W and told him that, on review, it felt that some 
information could have been made available sooner when Mr W was considering his 
retirement options. In recognition of that, it gave Mr W £500 compensation. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Amongst other things, he told us he didn't think Prudential 
had given him enough time to properly research his options. And due to the economic 
situation at the time and general publicity regarding the downward spiral of annuities, I felt I 
had little choice but to keep with Prudential, which I did. In terms of the £500 compensation 
Prudential had already given him, Mr W was concerned about how it calculated this figure 
and asked if it took account of the amount of pension he might have got on the open market 
some years earlier (as Mr W had originally intended to move his pension to another provider 
from which hed expected to get an extra £40 a month in income). He also wanted to know if 
it accounted for any future losses he might suffer. 
When responding to our service, Prudential confirmed that the £500 compensation payment 
was intended to reflect that its 11 July 2011 letter could have been clearer. In particular, it 
felt the wording might have given Mr W the impression he could only start exploring his 
retirement options (particularly the open market option) a month before his retirement date 
when that wasnt the case.  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Prudential needed to do 
anything more. She was satisfied that it had appropriately responded to Mr Ws requests for 
information in a timely manner. That said, she recognised Prudential had paid £500 
compensation in recognition that its 11 July 2011 letter wasnt clear enough. She thought 
that was a reasonable response in the circumstances. Mr W didnt accept the investigators 
assessment and asked for an Ombudsman to consider the matter afresh. So, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W feels that Prudential didnt give him enough time to make an informed 
decision about his pension options. And he thinks hes suffered a financial loss because of 
that as hed likely have got more pension income under the open market option. But, under 
pressure, he says he eventually opted to stay with Prudential.
I think its important to say here that, initially Mr W wasnt expected to retire until 2012. But 
he brought that date forward and the first that Prudential appears to have known about that 
was when Mr W got in touch in July 2011 to ask about his options. So, with that in mind, Ive 
considered whether Prudential responded to Mr Ws request for quotes and information in enough time so as to enable him to make an informed decision. And for the reasons Ill go 
on to explain, Im satisfied it did. 
I can see that Prudential responded to Mr Ws July 2011 letter within a few days of receiving 
it. And I think that timeframe was reasonable. I note that Prudential told Mr W it typically 
sends out pension quotes and supporting information about a month before the expected 
retirement date. I think it might have been more helpful if Prudential had said a bit more 
about why it doesnt send quotes out any sooner. Its because the information used to inform 
pension quotes changes frequently, so the pension provider will want to ensure theyre as up 
to date as possible. And once sent a month or so before the retirement date, Prudential says 
its able to guarantee the figures for a maximum of four weeks. So, assuming an option is 
accepted within that timeframe, theyre the figures on which any final pension payments are 
likely to be based. And whilst I appreciate that Mr W might have preferred to have received 
the quotation sooner (as he said he felt hurried to make a decision once he had it) I dont 
think the fact Prudential didnt send it until the end of August 2011 caused a delay, or 
prevented Mr W from researching his options. 
I say that in particular because in its letter of 11 July 2011, Prudential gave Mr W other 
important information about the various options that were available to him  including 
shopping around under the open market option. Im satisfied this would have been enough 
information to enable Mr W to start exploring his options. And as Prudential gave Mr W that 
information more than two months before his retirement date, I think it was given in good 
time. Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr W told Prudential at the time that he wouldnt have 
enough time to make an informed decision. In fact, I can see he indicated hed wait to hear 
from Prudential towards the end of August 2011. 
Having sent Mr W quotes around the end of August 2011 as expected, Mr W then asked 
Prudential to prepare a quote under the open market option. And Prudential sent that about 
six days later. Im satisfied that was a reasonable response in the circumstances  
considering Prudential had to prepare the quote and the associated forms for Mr W to 
complete.  
In response and with the help of a financial advisor, Mr W then signed the relevant forms to 
complete the transfer. And from that point on, it seems everything was on track for 
Prudential to complete Mr Ws transfer request to the new provider hed selected (and from 
which he expected to receive a larger pension income). But, just before that process was 
completed, Mr W said he didnt want to continue with it and said hed instead chosen to buy 
an annuity with Prudential. 
Mr Ws indicated he changed his mind because Prudential hadn't given him enough time to 
fully explore his options. And he suggested he felt pressured to stay with Prudential. 
I appreciate that making the right retirement decisions is really important. But, I've seen 
nothing that indicates Prudential didnt allow enough time for Mr W to make an informed 
decision, or that its actions (or lack of) led Mr W to change his mind about transferring his 
pension to another provider. 
Mr W told us the economic situation at the time and general publicity regarding the 
downward spiral of annuities I felt I had no choice but to keep with Prudential, which I did. 
And, on balance, I think his concerns about the uncertainty within the market are more likely 
to have influenced Mr Ws decision to keep his pension with Prudential - for a lower sum - 
than move it to the alternative provider. But that was his choice and Im not persuaded that 
insufficient time or a lack of information from Prudential significantly influenced that decision. 
And I dont think Mr Ws decision is something Prudential is responsible for.I recognise that Prudential could have been clearer in one letter, for which its provided fair 
compensation of £500. But, as Ive said, I don't think its responsible for Mr Ws choice not to 
take the alternative pension for a higher income. It follows, for all of the reasons Ive set out 
above, that I dont think The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has done anything 
wrong. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman