DRN-1553138
The complaint
Mr H complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd defaulted his loan account and made an 
adverse entry on his credit reference file. 
What happened
In March Mr H took out a finance agreement with Blue to acquire a car. It was repayable with 
60 monthly instalments of £116.17. Mr H who has mental health problems encountered 
financial difficulties and fell into arrears in December 2017. In February 2018 Blue issued a 
notice of default. Mr H then entered into an arrangement to pay, but was unable to maintain 
these payments. Blue terminated his account in August 2018 and in January 2019 it 
registered a default with the credit reference agencies. It did so because Mr Hs arrears 
exceeded four payments.
Mr H is trying to take out a new mortgage and was finding it difficult and he complained to 
Blue. It said it had followed the correct process and referred to the agreement Mr H had 
signed which stated that it could issue a notice of default after two missing payments.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that as consecutive payments 
were missed from December 2017 to February 2018, Blue was entitled to issue a default 
notice.
He noted Mr H struggled to maintain the payment plan and so the agreement was 
terminated and the default was registered. He explained that according to the Information 
commissioner's office (ICO) a lender may place a default against a person if their arrears are 
anywhere in between 3-6 months, whether the missed payments are consecutive.
Mr H didnt agree and said the missed payments werent consecutive. He also reiterated his 
health problems. Later he said he had cleared his arrears, but Blue hadnt removed the 
default. Our investigator asked if Blue would remove it but it said that it couldnt be removed 
as it had been added correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr H and his situation, but I dont consider I can uphold his 
complaint. I will explain why.
Blue has a responsibility to submit accurate information to the credit reference agencies. The 
reality is that Mr H did fail to make the original payments and later failed to maintain the 
payment plan. He had agreed to make regular payments but he didnt do so. I appreciate Mr 
H has faced a challenging time and he has struggled financially. I have read the medical 
evidence he has submitted and I can see why he feels aggrieved.
However, the role of the credit reference agencies is to report on an individuals financial 
status and it would be wrong to misreport what had happened. Other financial businesses 
rely on the report when making decisions on lending for example. 
I note Mr H has now repaid his arrears and that shows his responsible approach to dealing 
with his finances. That said, I cannot ask Blue to remove the earlier entry as it was put on 
the credit file correctly. Mr H can add his own comments on each credit reference agency 
report setting out his situation. This is known as a Notice of Correction and If Mr H considers 
that to be appropriate it is open for him to place his own note on his credit files. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman