DRN-4322595
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt apply an overpayment to their 
account correctly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a mortgage with Barclays. They say an overpayment of about £3,700 
was paid into their mortgage account in 2018, but this wasnt correctly applied to reduce their 
mortgage balance.
Our investigator said Barclays had applied overpayments to Mr and Mrs Ds account 
correctly. He said the 2018 annual statement caused confusion, as it showed the payment 
debited and re-credited. This was due to Mr and Mrs D contacting Barclays after making the 
overpayment to ask that it was used to reduce their monthly payment rather than the term. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2008, with a 10-year fixed rate product. 
This expired in July 2018. Barclays sent a letter to Mr and Mrs D at the end of July 2018 with 
their mortgage balance (about £44,000) and their new monthly payment of £547.
Mr D called Barclays in August 2018. He said he was struggling financially and had expected 
their new monthly payment to be lower. Barclays told Mr D it could re-apply their 
overpayments as a part redemption which would reduce the contractual monthly payment.
Barclays said Mr and Mrs D had made numerous overpayments over the years. It says their 
overpayments reduced the mortgage balance at the time they were made. However, it 
doesnt always re-calculate monthly payments to take account of overpayments. 
Continuing to make the same monthly payments would have resulted in the mortgage being 
paid off more quickly. In effect, Mr and Mrs D were making further small overpayments each 
month. But in mid-2018 Mr and Mrs D were struggling with their finances and wanted to 
reduce their monthly payments. Barclays agreed that the overpayments would be used to 
reduce their monthly payments. 
Barclays process to use overpayments to reduce monthly payments is to apply the 
overpayments as a part redemption. Mr and Mrs D had already made overpayments, which 
had reduced the mortgage balance when they were made. So Barclays debited the amount 
of the overpayments from their mortgage balance and credited the same amount as a part 
redemption. So the mortgage balance didnt change, and this was correct. 
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs D in early August 2018, after the overpayments had been 
applied as a part redemption. It set out the balance (about £44,000) and the new monthly 
payment of £504. So the process worked correctly, in that Mr and Mrs Ds monthly payments 
were lower.
In the letter, Barclays said it had received a payment of £3,700. It seems Mr and Mrs D 
thought this was a new payment made by the Department for Work and Pensions. This 
might have caused the confusion that led to this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D had also been discussing payments from the DWP with Barclays at about this 
time. However, they havent provided evidence the DWP did make a payment of £3,700 in 
August 2018. Based on the available evidence, I think £3,700 was the total of the 
overpayments made into Mr and Mrs Ds account over the years. I dont think Barclays 
received a further payment which it failed to apply to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage.
Putting things right
Barclays offered £250 to Mr and Mrs D for poor service, for not explaining better what had 
happened. Mr and Mrs D havent suffered any loss. But they were upset about what they 
thought was an error with their mortgage account. I think its fair that Barclays offered 
compensation for not explaining more clearly what had happened, which might have avoided 
some of this upset. think £250 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £250 to Mr and Mrs D, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman