DRN-3728307
The complaint
Mr H complains in his capacity as executor of the estate of Mrs H, that AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited (The AA) unfairly declined a claim for storm damage under a 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim on behalf of the estate of Mrs H, when damage occurred to the roof of 
the insured property, following a storm. A small number of ridge tiles were dislodged and 
areas of guttering were also affected. 
The AA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Mr H says the surveyor mentioned, some 
time after inspecting the property, that the storm had caused damage but the condition of the 
roof had been a contributory factor. He said the surveyor told him it was for the AA to 
determine whether to accept the claim. 
The AA rejected the claim on the basis that the storm had highlighted problems with the roof, 
rather than being the main cause of the damage. It said the surveyor had noted a number of 
issues with the roof which meant it hadnt been well-maintained.
Mr H didnt agree, so he referred the complaint to this service. He raised a number of issues, 
including that he hadnt been provided with the original surveyors report and that the 
property was in good condition. Our investigator took this into account but didnt recommend 
the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that the storm had been the main 
cause of the damage, so thought the AA hadnt declined the claim unfairly.
Because Mr H didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When our service looks at a complaint about a storm claim, there are three questions to 
consider:
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were likely to uphold a complaint if the answers to all three questions is yes and were 
unlikely to uphold a complaint if the answer to any of the questions is no. Ill deal with each 
of the questions in turn.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Using the resources this service has access to, Ive checked the weather conditions around 
the time the damage occurred in the vicinity of the insured property. And Im persuaded that 
there were storm conditions present. This is because our resources show that the peak wind 
speed was 78mph in the area at the time. 
The policy defines a Storm as a period of violent weather which includes wind speeds with 
gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph). So based on the policy definition and the evidence 
available about the weather conditions at the time, Im satisfied that storm conditions were 
present.
Do I agree that the damage claimed for is consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes?
I think the damage claimed for is the type of damage a storm would usually cause. High 
winds of this force could potentially cause ridge tiles to become loose and fall and can also 
cause damage to guttering. However, the AA has been consistent in its assertion that whilst 
the weather highlighted the condition of the roof, the damage in this case was not due to a 
one-off storm event but mainly caused due to ongoing wear and tear. So Ive considered this 
further in the next question.
Do I agree that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage?
The AA didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage. Its surveyors notes say 
there was evidence of wear and tear, moss growth, aging materials and poor quality 
materials. 
And the policy says, under General Exceptions, that loss or damage arising from gradually 
operating causes including deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes is 
not covered.
Ive reviewed the photographs that have been provided by the surveyor to support his 
conclusions. I think the commentary provided is consistent with what I can see in the photos. 
So I do think its more likely that the damage to the roof has been caused gradually over 
time, rather than by the one-off storm event. That doesnt mean I think the storm didnt blow 
tiles from the roof. Rather, that the roof shows signs of aging and a lack of maintenance  
which would make it more likely that tiles would be dislodged in high winds. But Im satisfied 
the storm wasnt the main or dominant cause of the damage.
Mr H says hes seen the photographs of the damage and believes they show that the 
property was in good condition. But Im afraid I dont find his comments as persuasive as 
those of the surveyor who inspected the property. This is because although he says hes got 
experience in the building trade, theres no independent report from a qualified professional 
which challenges the findings of the surveyor. And the surveyor noted extensive moss 
growth on the roof tiles which is likely to have impacted the structural integrity of the 
materials. I dont think its unreasonable for the AA to conclude that this level of moss growth 
couldve been the main cause of the problems. Moss growth on roof tiles can absorb large 
amounts of moisture which can then affect the underside of tiling. The moss itself can also 
break away, causing damage to gutters and downpipes. 
Mr H says that properties near his own home were affected by storm damage, were in the 
same condition before the storm (ie. they had moss on their roof tiles), and their repairs have been covered by insurers. Whilst I can understand Mr Hs frustration, this information doesnt 
mean the AA has acted unfairly. I say this because I dont have enough evidence of the 
condition of the other properties prior to the storm, other than Mr Hs testimony. And whilst I 
dont doubt what hes said, I also dont know the details of the other insurance policies or the 
precise nature of the damage that may have been covered. And in any event, even if all the 
details were comparable to this case, I still cant consider what other insurers may have 
decided, when considering whether the AA has acted reasonably here. Thats because my 
role is only to consider whether the AA has declined this claim fairly, and in line with the 
terms of its policy, based on the evidence in relation to this property.
Mr H also says the AA didnt address the part of the claim relating to the guttering. He says 
the damage to the guttering and downpipes wasnt related to the places the ridge tiles fell off 
the roof, but was caused by severe buffeting. Ive seen photographs of the damaged 
guttering, but I dont have enough evidence to say whether or not it was affected by the 
falling tiles. So Im afraid that while I agree the AA shouldve addressed this issue directly 
with Mr H, Im unable to say whether it shouldve upheld this aspect of the complaint or not. 
If Mr H is able to, I would recommend he provides his own evidence to the AA (such as a 
report by an independent third party, for example) to demonstrate that the damage to the 
guttering was unrelated to the falling tiles. If Mr H is able to provide such information to the 
AA, I would expect the AA to reconsider the claim in relation to the broken guttering, as it 
has not addressed the issue of the guttering in its final response letter to Mr H, nor has it 
addressed this issue in its submissions to this service.
Based on the information available however, Im more persuaded by the AAs position that 
the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage  but instead highlighted the already existing 
condition of the roof. So I cant say its decision to decline the claim was unfair or 
unreasonable.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But Im afraid that for the reasons 
Ive explained, Im not requiring the AA to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman