DRN-2723969
The complaint
Mr K complains FCL Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Smart-Pig.Com (Smart-Pig) lent to 
him irresponsibly.   
  
What happened
Mr K took eight loans with Smart-Pig between November 2014 and March 2018. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans which was contained 
within Smart-Pigs final response letter. 
Although, I do think, loan 6 was likely to have been issued in May 2016 because there are  
credit check results for this date. But, as the loans agreement hasnt been provided, I cant 
be sure. But whether the loan was issued in February or May doesn't make a difference to 
the outcome that I have come to.   
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount
BorrowedDate Taken Actual Repayment Date
1 £250 13/11/2014 05/01/2015
2 £350 27/01/2015 13/04/2015
3 £350 26/05/2015 29/09/2015
4 £350 10/10/2015 04/01/2016
5 £350 26/01/2016 11/04/2016
6 £350* 13/02/2016 15/10/2016
7 £200* 22/10/2016 13/01/2017
8 £200 14/03/2018 16/04/2018
*I understand loan 6 was granted for £150 and loan 7 for £100 and then topped up to the 
amount shown. 
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say Smart-Pig was wrong to have 
granted the first four loans or loan 8. But she thought loans 5, 6 and 7 shouldnt have been 
given. 
Mr K appears to agree with the adjudicators assessment.   
Smart-Pig disagreed with the adjudicators view that the loan pattern was indicative of the 
lending being unsustainable by loan 5 and that loans 5, 6 and 7 shouldnt have been 
granted.   
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr K doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Smart-Pig wasnt wrong 
to lend the first four loans or loan 8. It seems therefore that this lending is no longer in 
dispute, so I dont need to make a finding about it. So instead, this decision will focus on 
whether Smart-Pig did anything wrong when it lent loans 5, 6 and 7. But Ive kept in mind 
that loans 1  4 formed part of the same chain of lending as longs 5  7. 
Smart-Pig is a specialist lender which only provides finance to students. As part of its 
checks, it asked Mr K for evidence of the amounts and dates of his student loan payments. It 
also carried out credit checks. But Smart-Pig has also confirmed that it didnt gather any 
information about Mr Ks expenditure for any of the loans.  
Smart-Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Smart-Pig should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr K. These factors include: 
Mr K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr K. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.Smart-Pig was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, who had set out in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made 
without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought 
reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ks complaint.
Loans 5 - 7
Ill start by saying that at no point did Smart-Pig make any inquires with Mr K to try and find 
out about his regular living costs were  it just seems to have accepted that out of the 
student loan payment (and income from a job from June 2016) Mr K could afford the 
repayments he was committed to making. To be clear, I dont think the checks were 
proportionate. 
Im satisfied by this point that Smart-Pigs checks needed to go further by loan 5. This was 
Mr Ks fifth loan in successive terms. So, on top of verifying his student loan payments, I 
think Smart-Pig ought to have taken further steps to verify Mr Ks actual financial position. It 
needed to obtain evidence of his income (which it did) but also evidence of his outgoings, to 
see what he was spending his money on. Smart-Pig couldve done this a number of ways, it 
couldve asked to see his bank statements, or it couldve asked to see evidence of his 
outgoings such as copies of bills. It didnt do this and so, I dont think the checks Smart-Pig 
carried out for these loans was proportionate. 
While Smart-Pig had a fairly good idea of the income that Mr K was receiving which 
academic year (loans and grants) 2015/2016 it was around £2,400 per term. For academic 
year 2015/2016 I dont know exactly how much Mr K was getting per term, the above figure if 
just the total annual amount divided by the three terms. But this money, needed to be used 
by Mr K to support himself while he was at university  so costs for food, transport and 
stationary to name a few.   
What Smart-Pig did do, before it approved these loans was carry out a credit check and Ive 
considered the information that it received. Ive looked at those results, and superficially I 
dont think there was anything of real concern contained within the results. For example, 
there were no defaults or other information that may have suggested Mr K was insolvent. 
But over the course of loans 5  7 I think that there were signs that Mr Ks finances were 
deteriorating, and this is contained within the credit file data. I say this for the following 
reasons;
An increasing number of new accounts being opened  on average Mr K was 
opening a new credit facility at least once every two months.
By loan 7 Mr K seemed to be using other short-term lenders.
Mr Ks balance to limit ratio increased from 48% to 110% by loan 6.
Mr Ks finances had started to miss payments on existing credit. His worse payment 
status on his account had gone from U at loan 5, to a 2 at loan 6 and finally to a 3 
by loan 7.
Finally, the credit checks that Smart-Pig carried out showed, that Mr Ms total 
indebted balance had increased from around £1,500 at loan 5 to around £3,000 at 
loan 7.Indeed, the worsening finance position seems to be supported by the fact Smart-Pig 
declined a number of loans to Mr K because it thought he was over committed.
 
So Smart-Pig was on notice, that Mr K was using more of his available credit limits and that 
he had missed at least three payments on one account between January and October 2016. 
So, I think, taking into account what Smart-Pig knew from its own credit checks that there 
were signs the loans werent sustainable for Mr K because his financial situation appeared to 
be worsening. 
So, I think there were indications in the credit checks that Smart-Pig carried out that all was 
not well with Mr Ks finances. In addition, to what the credit checks showed, Ive also 
considered the overall pattern of Smart-Pigs lending history with Mr M, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Smart-Pig should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 5. I say this because:
Having looked at the overall pattern of Smart-Pigs lending history with Mr K, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Smart-Pig should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 5. I say this because:
By loan 5 it was 14 months into the lending relationship with no significant breaks 
between the loans of £250 and £350. In my view, Mr Ks loan history up until this 
point gave a clear indication that his underlying financial situation didnt seem to be 
improving; 
The gaps between when a previous loan was repaid, and the next loan being taken 
out appeared to be shrinking. For example, there was only a week between repaying 
loan 6 and taking loan 7, indicating that Mr K may have been taking these loans in 
order to cover the hole the previous loan had left in his finances
The level of the loans was showing a broadly consistent pattern, with four of the five 
loans being £350. I think its most likely this pattern of borrowing over the period 
showed that Mr K didnt just have a short-term cash-flow problem but was probably 
supporting regular living expenses or other regular financial commitments;
Mr K was continuing to appear to borrow at least one loan each term and Mr Ks 
lending history was prolonged with further loans being taken out in 2016 and his 
indebtedness continuing into 2017. The amount of time that Mr K spent indebted to 
Smart-Pig meant that he was in effect servicing a debt to Smart-Pig over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr K lost out when Smart-Pig provided loans 5, 6 and 7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ks 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5, 6 and 7. Ive set out what Smart-Pig should 
do to put things right below.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Smart-Pig should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided loans 5 - 7, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Smart-Pigs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
In order to put things right Smart-Pig should:
refund all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 5, 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove loans 5, 6 and 7 from Mr Ks credit file entirely.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Smart-Pig to take off tax from this interest. Smart-Pig 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ks complaint.
FCL Consumer Finance Ltd should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman