DRN-4180665
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his account, refused 
to release the funds which remained and recorded a fraud prevention marker against him. 
Background
In June 2022, Mr As account received a number of payments. The vast majority of funds 
were quickly transferred on to other accounts.
Shortly afterwards, NatWest received a notification from the third-party banks, which sent the 
payments to Mr As account, stating that the payees of the funds had reported being victims 
of fraud. NatWest reviewed Mr As account, decided to close it and also record a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
After subsequently learning about the fraud marker, Mr A complained about NatWests 
actions. NatWest looked at Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr A remained 
dissatisfied he asked our service to look into the matter.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that NatWest has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
NatWest also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think NatWest had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that NatWest has 
done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr A has said that the payments he received were made by family members to help support 
him with living expenses. Mr A has provided a screenshot containing a message, purportedly 
from his father, telling him that his school fees had all been paid for. 
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. But Im afraid that there are a number of things which 
simply dont add up here. I firstly say this because it is odd for more than one family member 
to have transferred funds to Mr A for living expenses and then subsequently contact their 
bank to report being the victim of fraud. 
Secondly, Im mindful that Mr As statements show that the majority of the funds were quickly 
transferred another account. This simply doesnt tally with these funds having been sent to 
Mr A in order to support him with his living expenses. Indeed, these actions are more 
consistent with fraudulent activity.
Finally, the message Mr A has provided to prove that he was legitimately sent the funds says 
that his school fees have been paid. This doesnt indicate that Mr As father was sending him 
funds for his living expenses. Furthermore, the message states the fees have been paid and 
the date stamp suggests that the message was sent two weeks before the funds in question 
arrived in Mr As account. 
Im afraid that the available evidence and Mr A being unable to corroborate what, on the face 
of things, appears to be an implausible version of events means that I cant reasonably 
conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he 
was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So Im satisfied that NatWest did have sufficient evidence to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account. And bearing in mind what Ive said above, Im also satisfied that 
NatWest was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr A was 
complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for NatWest to record a 
fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr As account. The terms and conditions of Mr As account 
permitted NatWest to close it without notice for a number of reasons. Amongst these 
reasons is where it reasonably suspect that your [Mr As] account (or any other account you 
hold with us) is being used, or is planned to be used, for an illegal purpose. Ive already 
explained why I think NatWest was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr As account had 
been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the 
fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted NatWest to close Mr As account in the way that it did. And Im therefore 
not upholding Mr As complaint on this basis either.
Finally, I know Mr A remains unhappy that NatWest hasnt returned all of the funds that were 
in his account at the time it was closed. But it looks like NatWest has returned the funds to the institution that sent them in the first place  in order words they were returned to source. 
Mr A should be able to contact his family members to resend the payments should he 
continue to believe that he is legitimately entitled to them. In any event, and most 
importantly, I dont think that NatWest did anything wrong or unfair when it didnt release 
these funds to Mr A.
Overall and having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr As 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I cant simply ignore the 
fact that the available evidence appears to show that Mr A was complicit in fraudulent 
activity. So I hope Mr A will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least 
feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman