DRN-3143411
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly refused to allow them to 
extend the term of their buy-to-let mortgage and then threatened to take legal action to 
recover the outstanding mortgage debt.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C hold a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage term ended 
in April 2021.
In late 2020 Mrs C contacted Barclays to discuss extending the term of the BTL mortgage 
they held with it. 
Mrs C explained that they had intended to repay the BTL mortgage by selling a commercial 
property they owned. She said they were unable to evict the tenant in the commercial 
property and were therefore not able to sell the property. 
Mrs C explained that requirements had been introduced during the COVID-19 pandemic that 
prevented her from evicting the tenant. 
Barclays considered Mr C and Mrs Cs request to extend the term of the BTL mortgage but, 
having carried out an assessment, said it was not willing to extend the term as they did not 
meet its lending criteria.
Mr C and Mrs C complained to Barclays.
It responded in mid-April 2021 to say that, having carried out two affordability assessments, 
it was not satisfied that Mr C and Mrs C met its affordability criteria and it was therefore not 
able to extend the term of their BTL mortgage. The letter set out that if Mr C and Mrs C were 
not satisfied with Barclays response, they could refer their complaint to this service and had 
six months from the date of the letter to do so.
Mr C and Mrs C say that in May 2021 they received a letter from Barclays threatening court 
action to recover the mortgage debt if it was not repaid.
Barclays then called Mrs C in late May 2021, to discuss repayment of the mortgage. During 
the call Mrs C said that she intended to refer the complaint to this service. Barclays then told 
Mrs C that she would need to provide proof that she had referred the complaint and would 
need to refer her complaint to this service as soon as she returned from her holiday. Mrs C 
was also told that action to recover the mortgage debt would not be put on hold if she did not 
provide evidence that she had referred the complaint.
Mrs C complained to Barclays again about the information she had received in this call, and 
a subsequent call, and what she felt was bullying behaviour by Barclays.
Barclays upheld Mrs Cs complaint about the phone calls in late May and early June 2021 
and offered to pay her £250 as an apology. It also confirmed that Mrs C wasnt required to 
provide it with monthly updates while the complaint was ongoing.
Our investigator said that although she was sympathetic to Mr C and Mrs Cs position, she 
didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong when it did not agree to extend the term of 
their BTL mortgage. 
She noted that it was not in dispute that Barclays had sent Mr C and Mrs C several 
reminders that the mortgage term was due to end in April 2021. And she noted that it had 
considered their request to extend the term of the mortgage, but as they did not meet its 
lending criteria it had declined their request.
She explained that as the mortgage was a BTL, not a residential mortgage, Barclays wasnt 
required to show the same level of forbearance.  She said she was satisfied that it had 
considered Mr C and Mrs Cs request to extend the term of the mortgage in line with its 
lending criteria. As Mr C and Mrs C did not meet its affordability requirements, she said 
Barclays was entitled to refuse their request to extend the term of the mortgage.
Mr C and Mrs C did not accept our investigators view. Mrs C accepted they could have sold 
the mortgaged property to repay the loan but said, this would mean I have to evict an 
NHS worker who has been in the property for 7 years. I think this action would be heartless 
due to their commitment to service during this pandemic.
Mrs C also asked this service to listen to the recordings of the conversations she had with 
Barclays as she said she felt the recordings made clear that Barclays had continually 
insisted that I have 24 hours to lodge my complaint with the FOS and that Barclays 
continually bullies me on the call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclays needs to do any more than it has already offered in 
order to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
decision not to extend the term of Mr C and Mrs Cs BTL mortgage
Mrs C says 
Barclays are aggressively pushing me to clear my buy to let mortgage and will not listen to 
reason as to why it is not appropriate to do so. I am trying to be proactive, and they are not 
even trying to help in my situation. No one could have foreseen the impact that Covid would 
have on plans made for 2021. The property concerned has a long-term NHS worker and her 
family living in it; they would have to be evicted, if Barclays go along the Court route. There 
is no need for this to happen if Barclays granted a mortgage extension for Force majeure 
circumstances. I have never missed a payment on the mortgage and have the income to 
make regular payments in the future.
I appreciate that Mr C and Mrs C want Barclays to extend the term of their BTL mortgage as 
they havent been able to sell a commercial property they own and didnt want to sell the 
mortgaged BTL property in order to repay the mortgage borrowing. (I understand that they 
have now been able to put the commercial property up for sale.)But I must take into account that Barclays did consider Mrs C and Mr Cs request to extend 
the term of their BTL mortgage. Unfortunately, despite having considered their request twice 
they did not meet its affordability criteria, so it was unable to agree to their request.
Mrs C says that Barclays should have done more to assist them and she feels, From 
Barclays perspective I was a perfect customer from a business and domestic mortgage 
perspective. 
I am sympathetic to Mrs Cs position but as our investigator explained, as the mortgage is a 
BTL mortgage, and is not secured against Mr C and Mrs Cs main home Barclays does not 
have to offer the same level of forbearance. I appreciate that Mrs C feels Barclays should be 
more flexible, but I cant reasonably say that Barclays should agree to extend the term of the 
BTL mortgage if Mr C and Mrs C do not meet its lending criteria.
call recordings
I have listened to the conversations Mrs C had with Barclays in late May and early June 
2021 about the repayment of the mortgage and about making a complaint to this service.
In its letter to Mrs C dated 3 August 2021, Barclays accepted that the staff Mrs C spoke to in 
late May and early June provided incorrect information. Having listened to the calls I agree 
that Mrs C would have felt pressured into referring her complaint to this service very quickly 
and to provide evidence that she had done so to Barclays.
Barclays has offered to pay Mrs C £250 for the worry and upset she experienced as a result 
of the calls in late May and early June 2021. Having carefully considered this aspect of the 
complaint I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate that the calls caused Mrs C worry and upset, but I am mindful that during the 
call in late May 2021, Mrs C said that she wanted any recovery action to be put on hold while 
her complaint was with the ombudsman and that she was aware that she had six months to 
refer her complaint to this service. In response to this, during the call, Barclays explained 
that without anything to show that the complaint had been referred to this service it would not 
be willing to put a hold on the account. It was then agreed that Mrs C would refer the 
complaint to this service on her return from holiday and would provide evidence that she had 
done so to Barclays.
Barclays has explained to Mrs C that there was no requirement on it to put recovery action 
on hold while a complaint is considered by this service. I understand however, that Barclays 
has put a hold to prevent any further contact from it until this service has considered the 
complaint. 
summary
I do understand that Mrs C feels Barclays should agree to extend the term of this BTL 
mortgage to allow her time to sell another property she owns so that she can use the 
proceeds to redeem this mortgage. But there is no requirement on Barclays to agree to Mr C 
and Mrs Cs request. It considered their request but as they did not meet its lending criteria, I 
cannot reasonably find that it treated Mr C and Mrs C unfairly when it refused to extend the 
term of this BTL mortgage 
I agree that the call Mrs C had with Barclays in late May 2021 would have led Mrs C to feel 
pressured into referring the complaint to this service very quickly. (I note Barclays also asked 
Mrs C to provide monthly updates, but later accepted this wasnt necessary.) But I think the 
£250 Barclays has offered to pay for the worry and upset this caused is fair and reasonable.I am mindful that Mrs C has said this service should make suggestions to [Barclays] on its 
procedures when it impacts a customer in the way it has me. This service determines 
complaints on their individual merits, we do not have the power to instruct a business to 
change its processes. If Mrs C wishes to pursue this matter, she may wish to contact the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. I note however that Barclays has said it 
has provided feedback to the team Mrs C spoke to in late May and early June 2021.
My final decision
My decision is that the offer Barclays Bank UK PLC has made to resolve this complaint is 
fair and reasonable and I dont think it needs to do any more to resolve this matter. I simply 
leave it to Mr C and Mrs C to decide if they now wish to accept the £250 Barclays has 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman