DRN-3036961
The complaint
Mr W says Interactive Investor Services Limited caused significant delays when switching 
one of his pension funds into his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), causing him 
financial detriment. Hes also raised concerns about several aspects of the service he 
received.
What happened
Mr W initiated the switch of funds from his Zurich and Sky pensions into his Interactive 
Investor SIPP on 3 November 2019. The switch of the former plan was given effect on 4 
December without incident.
The focus of this case is the transaction related to Mr Ws Sky pension. This had a transfer 
value of around £173,000 for the non-guaranteed element. Another portion of this pot was 
for a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) - this was worth about £21,000. Mr Ws pension 
was held in investments at the time, but he wanted to switch the total value as cash.
Interactive Investor received Mr Ws signed Sky pension transfer forms on 21 November 
2019. It sent the transfer forms to its administrator, Barnett Waddingham (BW) on the day 
they were received. Its relevant to this case that as the principal firm, Interactive Investor 
was ultimately responsible for BWs acts and omissions.
On 29 November 2019, BW said the transfer should be resubmitted as a defined benefit 
transfer because the forms showed the plan had a GMP. Interactive Investor resubmitted the 
transfer request on 9 December 2019.
As the pension contained guaranteed benefits and the total transfer value was over 
£30,000, BW then informed Interactive Investor on 17 December 2019 that Mr W would 
need to complete a declaration confirming hed received advice from an independent 
financial adviser (IFA). Interactive Investor informed Mr W of this on 23 December 2019.
Mr W contacted Interactive Investor on 30 December 2019 to confirm that his Sky pension 
scheme would honour the valuation. He also said that his pension wasnt a defined benefit 
scheme but did have GMP. So, he thought he didnt need to complete an IFA declaration to 
complete the switch. Interactive Investor informed BW of the situation.
BW reiterated on 2 January 2020 that because Mr Ws Sky pension contained a GMP 
and the total transfer value was over £30,000, it would need the IFA declaration. This was 
explained to Mr W the same day by Interactive Investors representative. But he 
disagreed and asked for his calls to be reviewed.
Also, on 2 January 2020, Interactive Investor issued a response to Mr Ws complaint about 
its service. It apologised for the delays and frustrations hed experienced during the 
transfer and offered him £40 compensation.
On 3 January 2020 Mr W called Interactive Investor. He said that as the GMP element of 
his Sky pension was only £21,000 he shouldnt have to complete the IFA declaration. It 
reiterated that for a full transfer, an IFA declaration would be required. But its 
representative agreed to call Mr W back to discuss his options.
During the call back, Mr W said hed spoken to the Sky pension scheme and had decided 
not to transfer the GMP element, avoiding the requirement for the IFA declaration. Mr W 
said he wanted to leave all the benefits hed accrued before 6 April 1997 with the Sky 
pension scheme.
The representative Mr W had spoken to at Interactive Investor requested a new transfer 
instruction be submitted to BW the same day - this didnt happen. After Mr W chased 
progress, the new instruction was submitted on 21 January 2020. But the old instruction 
hadnt been cancelled - Interactive Investor didnt inform BW about this until 28 January 
2020. As BW didnt cancel the old instruction until 4 February 2020, his new requirement 
wasnt successfully uploaded to their system until then.
BW sent the new transfer instruction to the Sky pension scheme on 18 February 2020. 
Interactive Investor then received the transfer proceeds on 13 March 2020 after the Sky 
pension scheme began disinvestment on 10 March 2020.
Mr W had several concerns about what had happened. He was frustrated by the time it had 
taken to effect his Sky pension switch. He noted that the Zurich transaction had been 
relatively smooth. And as a result of the delays he felt hed lost money, because his funds 
had remained invested longer than they shouldve been.
Mr W also raised concerns about other aspects of the service he received. For example, he 
says hed notified Interactive Investor several times that it hadnt got his initials correct. This 
caused inconvenience, the latest example being when he was unable to cash the cheque it 
had sent him in January 2020 apologising for problems with the service hed received.
Mr W also told us about a call he made requesting an update on his transfer in January 
2020. Interactive Investors representative asked him what hed be doing with his GMP. 
Mr W was frustrated as he had provided this information previously. As the conversation 
developed, he felt matters became confrontational. And after he asked for an update on 
the transfer in writing, the line was disconnected.
Interactive Investor responded to Mr Ws concerns. It cited an industry standard timeframe 
for the transfer of pensions into a SIPP of 8-12 weeks. It said that his Zurich plan proceeded 
more quickly because there were no special provisions attached to it, unlike his Sky pension 
which had a GMP. It said Mr W has caused some of the early delays because he questioned 
the requirement for an IFA declaration.
Interactive Investor later accepted BW had caused some delays in the process for Mr W. But 
it said it wouldnt be fair for it to be penalised for the delays Mr W had caused. Nor the fact 
that he held his funds in cash after the transfer. It felt that the problems hed experienced 
were at least in part due to not having a financial adviser.
In relation to issues with Mr Ws personal details, Interactive Investor explained it was 
unable to change his name as his birth certificate set out his full details  so it had to keep 
this on file. It said it would cancel the cheque it had sent him and issue a new one in the 
name he required.
Interactive Investor investigated the service provided by one of its representatives when 
dealing with Mr W in January 2020. It found that individuals behaviour to have been 
unacceptable, and it noted he no longer worked for the firm. It had written to Mr W 
apologising and offering him a further £50 for what had happened.The Investigator upheld Mr Ws case. He thought that Interactive Investors agent had 
caused nearly a months delay in the transfer of his Sky pension. And he thought the total 
award for distress and inconvenience it had offered should be increased to £250.
Interactive Investor disagreed with the Investigators conclusions. So, Mr Ws complaint 
has been passed to me to review and for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im in agreement with the findings and conclusions of the Investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. It follows that Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.
The Investigator was right when he found Mr W had a role in the delay he experienced early 
in the switching process. He challenged the need for an IFA declaration to enable the switch 
of his Sky pension. But the regulations do provide for this where there are safeguarded 
benefits such as a GMP (as was the case here). It wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold 
Interactive Investor responsible for delays prior to 3 January 2020.
Agreement had to be reached with Mr W before the transfer of his pension could progress. It 
was from 3 January 2020, when he agreed to proceed on the basis of transferring only the 
non-protected benefits from his Sky pension - which meant he didnt need an IFA declaration 
- that matters could proceed to conclusion.
But, as we know, BW was then responsible for issues that delayed the process. It failed to 
execute his new transfer instruction as soon as it shouldve. And it failed to cancel his initial 
instruction, which caused further problems. Together, this meant delays between 3 January 
2020, when the new transfer instruction shouldve been submitted and 4 February 2020, 
when BW eventually uploaded the new instruction to its system.
Ive thought about the arguments Interactive Investor has made in support of its position. I 
dont find what it said about industry standards for effecting transfers into SIPPs telling. It 
needed to deliver services effectively and efficiently - to give effect to Mr Ws instructions 
within a reasonable timeframe.
The Investigator thought Mr Ws new instruction to transfer his Sky pension shouldve been 
submitted on 3 January 2020. He considered BW couldve cancelled his original request and 
uploaded his new requirements within 5 working days. This wouldve meant this part of the 
process being completed by 10 January 2020. I think this is reasonable. And I note that 
Interactive Investor has also now accepted responsibility for delays caused by its agent.
The arguments made by Interactive Investment about the progress of Mr Ws Zurich switch 
being different to his Sky pension, and that his disputing certain requirements early in the 
process caused delays, have merit.And I agree with Interactive Investor that it wouldnt be fair for any redress to cover the time 
when Mr W was still settling on how he wanted to proceed with the pension switch. Nor, to 
make any adjustment for the fact that he held his fund in cash for some time after the 
transfer. The consequences here are rightly borne by Mr W. That said, the effect of the 
redress proposed by the Investigator didnt contradict this position.
As to whether Mr W wouldve been better off securing the services of a financial adviser or 
concerning his decision about whether to move his pension value in cash or investments, 
these are matters for him. He decided to transfer his pension without advice, as he was able 
to do (when he agreed his GMP wouldnt be included). And he wanted to move that value in 
cash. These were his instructions. And weve established, Interactive Investor were 
ultimately responsible for delays in that process.
Mr Ws Sky pension needed to be divested, moved into cash and transferred. The process 
was delayed and its likely the value of the cash funds transferred to Interactive Investor 
were affected, one way or another, as a result. So, I disagree with Interactive Investor that 
the delay it was responsible for didnt have any effect. We dont know.
Having established a reasonable assessment of the delay Interactive Investor was 
responsible for, the purpose of the Investigators redress proposal was to require an 
assessment of the impact, and if thered been a loss for it to put matters right.
Interactive Investor has suggested that as Mr W knew that the value of his investments was 
falling, he couldve delayed the switch of his Sky pension and awaited market stability. It also 
argued he couldve moved his funds into cash at any time prior to divesting. Essentially, it 
says he couldve mitigated any losses.
Customers do have a responsibility to mitigate their losses. But Im not persuaded by 
Interactive Investors arguments in this case and circumstances. Mr W had given an 
instruction in good faith and expected this to have been carried out, as it was for his Zurich 
pension. I dont think its reasonable to suggest he shouldve been monitoring Interactive 
Investors progress and trading his funds accordingly.
I note the administrator of Mr Ws Sky pension also provided the following observations 
about trading activity following receipt of instructions to transfer:
It would not have been possible to switch the funds that were being disinvested to transfer 
out once the investment instruction has been sent. Also, Willis Towers Watson would likely 
be unwilling to disinvest [Mr Ws] funds before all of their requirements were fulfilled for the 
transfer to proceed...
Finally, regarding other service matters raised by Mr W. Interactive Investor has explained to 
him why the issues with his name have arisen, and why it retains his legally registered name 
on file. For example, its cited money laundering regulations. Its also set out how he could 
go about resolving this issue.
I also note that Interactive Investor took the failings of one of its representatives in his 
dealings with Mr W seriously and tried to put things rights after investigating the matter. 
Putting things right
Interactive Investor Services Limited was responsible for some of the delay Mr W 
experienced when instructing the switch of his Sky pension into his SIPP. There were also 
problems with some of the service he received. It has accepted these findings. I now require Interactive Investor Services Limited to take the following steps to put matters 
right.
Any financial loss Mr W suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of his 
transferred pension on the basis that his new instruction to switch his Sky pension funds into 
his SIPP wouldve been uploaded by BW on 10 January 2020, not 4 February as happened. 
So, holding the rest of the timetable that unfolded constant, as well as any other subsequent 
relevant events. 
Interactive Investor should then subtract the current equivalent fund value, from the notional 
value, at the date of calculation. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is 
payable.
If theres a loss, any compensation should if possible be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into Mr Ws pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to him as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
If Mr W hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Mr W will need to provide Interactive Investor with access to information it requires to enable 
the redress calculations to be undertaken. And Interactive Investor will need to provide Mr W 
with a clear breakdown of its calculations.
This matter has also caused Mr W a significant amount of frustration and upset. Interactive 
Investor made repeated requests for the same information. A member of its staff was rude to 
him on the phone. He had to regularly chase for updates. And hes told us the delays 
impacted his ability to make a pre-arranged purchase. 
In recognition of these issues, Interactive Investor should pay Mr W £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused (this is based on the understanding he hasnt cashed the two 
cheques totalling £90 that it previously sent him to in relation to the complaints covered by 
my decision).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. I require Interactive 
Investor Services Limited to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman