DRN-1955584
 
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between March 
2015 and February 2018. This is a summary of Mr Hs lending history from Mr Lender. 
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 10/03/2015 19/06/2015 200
2 23/06/2015 21/09/2015 200
3 09/10/2015 21/04/2016 200
4 21/04/2016 30/12/2016 450
5 06/02/2018 26/06/2018 400
 
Our adjudicator thought loan 4 shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender didnt agree, so the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
There was a significant break of more than a year in Mr Hs borrowing from Mr Lender 
between loans 4 and 5. I think it would have been reasonable for Mr Lender to have 
seen this gap as an indication that Mr Hs finances had moved on from whatever situation 
had required his previous loans. So I will consider Mr Hs borrowing in two distinct lending 
chains. The first chain being loans 1 to 4 and the second chain loan 5. 
I agree with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate Mr Lender needed to do more 
when it approved loans 1 to 3, or loan 5. It asked about his income and expenditure and 
carried out a credit check at the time of each application. Ive seen nothing in the data it 
gathered that I think should have led it to make different lending decisions. So I dont think 
Mr Lender was wrong to give loans 1 to 3, or loan 5 to Mr H.
Ive then looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point during the first lending chain at which Mr Lender should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached at loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken out four loans in around 13 months. And I think the 
pattern of Mr Hs borrowing was itself evidence of the unsustainability  he took out 
loan 2 four days after repaying loan 1; loan 3 18 days after repaying loan 2 and loan 
4 on the same day hed repaid loan 3. So Mr Lender ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Loan 4 was Mr Hs highest loan to date, at over twice the value of his first loan. So 
there was no evidence of a consistent or significant reduction in the amount he 
needed to borrow. Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. He had been 
indebted to Mr Lender for 13 months almost continually. Mr Lender ought to have 
known that Mr H was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income 
but to meet an ongoing need that wasnt best met using high cost short term credit. 
Mr H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over 
an extended period.
 
I think that Mr H lost out because Mr Lender provided loan 4 onwards because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
it was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
I have carefully considered Mr Lenders response to our adjudicators view.  It argued that it 
carried out proportionate checks that showed loan 4 would be affordable for Mr H. But as I 
said earlier it was required to do more than check the pounds and pence affordability. And 
for the reasons set out above, I think it had enough information at this point to realise that it 
was most likely the loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr H. 
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4, and Mr Lender should put things right. 
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
any information recorded about loan 4 is adverse, so the entry about loan 4 should 
be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman