DRN-3502278
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misled him concerning the exchange rate it would 
use when converting euros to sterling. 
What happened
In August 2021 HSBC spoke with Mr T as it had received a transfer in euros for an account 
he holds in sterling. Mr T discussed arrangements for converting the funds over the phone 
and by email. HSBC said there would be no charge for receiving the transfer. In an email, 
HSBC advised the exchange would be made at the prevailing rate at the time of conversion. 
Mr T emailed HSBC confirming he wished to proceed and asked it to give him details of the 
conversion rate once done. HSBC converted the funds to sterling and paid them into Mr Ts 
account. 
Mr T contacted HSBC later that day and raised concerns over the exchange rate used. Mr T 
has explained he thought HSBC would use a mid-market exchange rate and says he was 
misled when discussing arrangements to convert euros. Mr T went on to raise a complaint. 
HSBC issued a final response but didnt agree it had misled Mr T. HSBC said it had 
exchanged the euros in line with its account terms and its instructions. HSBC said it applied 
a margin when reaching the exchange rate it uses and didnt agree that it had applied a 
charge for the transaction. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ts complaint. They thought HSBC had dealt with 
Mr Ts case fairly and didnt think it had misled him when he asked about exchanging funds. 
Mr T asked to appeal explaining he remains of the view that HSBC had applied an 
undisclosed charge which was contrary to the information hed been given before the 
exchange was completed. Mr T said that as a retail client he believed there would be no cost 
for HSBC exchanging his funds. As Mr T asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all the available contact between Mr T and HSBC, including calls and emails 
from both before and after the exchange completed. Mr T has told us he was trying to get an 
understanding of how HSBC was going to price or charge for the service of exchanging his 
euros to sterling. I can see Mr T did ask about arrangements for HSBC converting funds.  
Ive looked at the information HSBC provided. Ultimately, HSBC said it would apply the 
prevailing rate at the point the currency exchange was completed. Mr T says he assumed 
that meant the mid-market rate between euros and sterling. But at no point has HSBC said it 
converts currency on a mid-market exchange rate basis. The mid-market, or interbank, rate 
isnt something thats generally available to retail customers. And HSBCs account terms and 
conditions confirm it will use the HSBC Exchange Rate to convert funds it receives. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr T, but I havent found HSBC provided misleading information about the 
exchange rate it used. And I havent seen anything that indicates it offered to exchange 
Mr Ts funds on a mid-market rate basis. 
In my view, HSBC makes a reasonable point when it says Mr T couldve asked for specific 
quotes or indicative rates on the day if hed wanted a better idea of the conversion rate. But 
the email instruction Ive seen shows Mr T asked HSBC to exchange the euros and confirm 
the rate when completed. Im satisfied HSBC acted in line with Mr Ts instructions. 
Mr T has told us that the margin HSBC applies to reach its HSBC Exchange Rate represents 
a charge. And when Mr T checked with HSBC he was told there was no charge for 
completing the exchange. I understand Mr Ts view but disagree. HSBC has explained that 
its retail margin is built into the HSBC Exchange Rate that it used. Its not unusual for a 
business like HSBC to build in a margin like to the rates it offers and so I dont think it gave 
Mr T any misleading advice on this basis. It used the relevant rate and that included its retail 
margin. 
HSBC hasnt told Mr T it will complete exchanges on a mid-market exchange rate basis. As 
noted above, its account terms say it will use the HSBC Exchange Rate. And that is what it 
did when converting the euros to sterling. No direct charges were applied, and the HSBC 
Exchange Rate was used, in line with what HSBC has said. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr T but as Im satisfied HSBC dealt with his complaint fairly, Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman