DRN-1316391
The complaint
Miss M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited shouldnt have approved her application for a 
credit card. Shes also unhappy it irresponsibly increased her credit limit when it shouldnt 
have done so.  
What happened
Miss M applied for a credit card with Vanquis in 2016. Based on the information she 
provided, Vanquis accepted her application and gave her a credit limit of £250. In January 
2017 Miss Ms credit limit was increased to £500. And in June 2017 Vanquis further 
increased Miss Ms credit limit to £1500. The third and final increase to Miss Ms credit limit 
took effect in February 2018 when Vanquis increased this to £2250.
Miss M didnt reject the credit limit increases Vanquis offered her. And she went on to use 
them. Prior to the third credit limit increase Miss M managed her account well and made 
payments on time that exceeded the minimum due. However, following the final credit limit 
increase Miss M made a number of payments late and her account exceeded her credit limit 
on at least seven occasions. 
Miss M complained to Vanquis that it had irresponsibly lent to her. She said it shouldnt have 
approved her application for a credit card or increased her credit limit.  She said the credit 
limit increases led to financial difficulties and caused her to be stuck in a cycle of debt, which 
detrimentally affected her health and wellbeing. 
After Vanquis investigated it rejected Miss Ms complaint. It said it hadnt done anything 
wrong when it approved her credit card application. And it explained that it carried out 
appropriate affordability checks prior to increasing her credit limit for the first time. It said all 
subsequent increases followed the same procedure. So, it was satisfied Miss M could afford 
the borrowing and it said, each time it had offered a credit limit increase, shed been given 
the option to decline the increase. 
Being dissatisfied with Vanquis response to her complaint Miss M referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Miss M, they werent 
persuaded that Vanquis had irresponsibly lent to her or done anything wrong. Overall they 
thought it had acted fairly and reasonably. But Miss M disagreed with our investigators view 
and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first part of Miss Ms complaint is about Vanquis decision to approve her credit card 
application, which she says was irresponsible. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
Miss M said Vanquis should have declined her application for credit because she had a 
default payment and short term payday loan recorded on her credit file when she opened her account. But this wouldnt necessarily mean Vanquis decision to approve Miss Ms credit 
card application was wrong. I say this because Vanquis offers cards to people who want to 
improve their credit rating because they have poor or absent credit history. So it wouldnt be 
unusual for a Vanquis customer to have debts pre-existing elsewhere or for it to decline 
lending just for this reason.   
Vanquis was required to lend responsibly. Before agreeing to do so, it should have assessed 
the affordability of credit to ensure that Miss M could afford to repay what she was 
borrowing. Its up to Vanquis which checks it carries out but they need to be reasonable and 
proportionate to, for example, the amount being borrowed, the cost of repayment and a 
customers lending history. We cant say a lender shouldve done any particular check and 
there isnt a set list of checks it needed to do.
Before approving Miss Ms credit card application, Vanquis said it made a credit assessment 
 using its own internal risk strategies and information supplied by Miss M and credit 
reference agencies. It said that, after doing so, it was satisfied Miss M met its acceptance 
criteria. Given this, and the relatively small amount of credit Vanquis offered her, I think it 
was reasonable for it to have accepted Miss Ms initial application with a relatively small 
credit limit.
Before it changes a customers credit limit Vanquis said it reviews how theyre using their 
card and managing other credit commitments. It says it makes risk based assessments to 
ensure its lending is appropriate to a customers financial circumstances. It says these 
checks were undertaken before it increased Miss Ms limit on each occasion in 2017 and 
2018. And it stated Miss M met the criteria to qualify for an increase on each occasion. Its 
clear that Miss M feels the credit limit increases were irresponsible. But, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think Vanquis undertook affordability checks that were proportionate to 
what was being lent.
Having carefully considered the statements of Miss Ms account I can see she made monthly 
payments to her account on time, which regularly exceeded the minimum amount due. At 
around the time of the second credit limit increased offer Miss M made two payments to her 
account a day late. However, based on what I can see this was due to Miss Ms salary 
crediting her account the day after her payment to Vanquis was due. 
Ive reviewed the annual statement Miss M was sent in August 2017. This showed she was 
paying a small amount of interest based on her purchase transactions when compared to the 
payments she had made to her account. I note there were only two default charges when 
Miss M made payments to her account late. So, overall Im not persuaded there were any 
affordability concerns here and I dont think Vanquis acted irresponsibly in increasing Miss 
Ms credit limit in 2017.
Prior to the final credit limit increase I can see that Miss M was largely managing her account 
well. I say this because she made her payments on time. Again, these payments exceeded 
the minimum amount required. So, I dont think Vanquis acted unreasonably in increasing 
Miss Ms credit limit in February 2018.
Vanquis said before it made changes to Miss Ms credit limit it wrote to her to invite her to 
opt out of the increases. Ive seen evidence that persuades me that Vanquis communicated 
with Miss M prior to each credit limit increase. I can see that the correspondence Vanquis 
sent her explained it was going to increase her limit and when the change would take effect. 
Vanquis advised Miss M to think about whether the proposed increases were affordable to 
her and what she should do if she didnt want the increase it had offered. Im satisfied Miss 
M had opportunity to opt out had she wanted to. I understand she didnt reject any increases 
Vanquis offered in 2017 or 2018. Its clear to me she wanted those increases.I understand Miss M didnt notify Vanquis she was experiencing financial difficulties until 
December 2018 when she told it she had sought help from a debt charity. And I can see 
that, in February 2019, a debt management plan was applied to her account, which took her 
minimum monthly payments down to around £20.
Ive thought about whether Vanquis ought to have identified that Miss M was suffering 
financial hardship before she informed it of her difficulties. However, based on how Miss M 
was operating her account, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Vanquis had 
opportunities to recognise that she was experiencing financial difficulties prior to when her 
final credit limit increase took effect. 
Immediately after this final increase, however, I can see that the way in which Miss M 
managed her account began to change. She missed a payment and incurred over limit 
charges in March, April, May and September. Its clear from November 2018 onwards that 
Miss M was struggling financially. And in December 2018 and January 2019 she failed to 
make payments to her account, which was out of character for her. 
I can see that payments resumed in February  albeit at a reduced rate in accordance with 
Miss Ms debt management plan. But, overall, I think her deviation from her usual account 
after the final credit limit increase should have led Vanquis to recognise that she may have 
been struggling to manage her account due to financial difficulties.
While it may have helped Miss M if Vanquis had contacted her prior to December 2018 I 
dont have sufficient evidence to persuade me that the outcome would have been different. I 
say this because Vanquis wouldnt have had to waive interest and charges. I can see the 
debt management plan was applied to Miss Ms account soon after she made it aware of her 
financial difficulties, which is what I would expect. Im satisfied, overall, that Vanquis is 
treating Miss M positively and sympathetically as its required to do. So Im not going to ask it 
to do anymore here.
I realise Miss M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Vanquis informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Miss M any further with this.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman