DRN-3410332
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Commsave Credit Union Limited irresponsibly approved his loan 
application that was unaffordable and hasnt supported him during financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr Y says he took out a Commsave loan for £1,500 followed by a further loan with a different 
business for £1,800. He says he then applied for and was given a Commsave loan for 
£5,000 which was intended to consolidate the previous loans, but he accepts some of the 
money was used for purchases. Mr Y says he then entered into a Debt Management Plan 
(DMP) which Commsave didnt accept due to a household income issue. He says he 
accepts he didnt make required payments as he wanted Commsave to negotiate with him 
and says he was unable to afford the required payments. Mr Y would like compensation for 
what took place and for future interest to be stopped.
Commsave says it looked into the complaint about the DMP and says Mr Y previously 
brought a complaint to us about that. It says it was concerned that Mr Y was repaying a 
credit card debt at about £150 a month and was prioritising that debt over the loan. It also 
says it carried out checks on Mr Ys finances and thought he could afford more than his 
offer. Commsave says it agreed a short-term plan with Mr Y which lasted about five months.
Mr Y brought his complaint to us and our investigator explained that we couldnt look into 
issues previously brought to us. The investigator thought the loan was unaffordable from the 
outset and didnt think Commsave had offered appropriate help. The investigator thought Mr 
Y had declared his wifes income of about £900 benefits in the original application which 
should not have been included as it was hers not Mr Ys money and he had no access to it. 
The investigator thought Commsave should have carried out further checks on the 
application which would have shown it was unaffordable. He recommended all interest and 
charges be refunded and the loan re-worked.
Commsave doesnt accept that view and says it carried out appropriate checks on Mr Y 
which included obtaining his wage slip and bank statements as well as carrying out a credit 
search. It says it is entitled to take into account Mr Ys wifes income even if its benefits and 
says Mr Y declared an income of over £2,200 with outgoings of £1,210. And says the loan 
was affordable even if the benefits were deducted.
I asked Mr Y for his credit file and copy bank statements which he has provided, and he has 
also confirmed that he accepts this complaint is now mainly about the loan affordability and 
not the DMP issues.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
lending. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and amount of any lending. 
This was an application for a loan of £5,000 from a credit union and so I wouldnt have 
expected Commsaves checks to have been as detailed here as for example a mortgage 
application. But of course, checks must be carried out although I accepted this was a loan 
from a credit union.
I looked carefully at Commsaves records and saw that Mr Y declared an income of £2,300 
and expenditure of £997 a month. I could also see he declared his wifes income as zero but 
stated £900 was received in benefits. I didnt agree with the investigators view that the £900 
was Mr Ys wifes money and so shouldnt have been included in any calculations. I didnt 
think it matters who received it as its clearly household income and in any event Mr Y 
declared it as effectively his income. I was satisfied that Commsave checked the information 
Mr Y provided it with and saw that it obtained a previously submitted wage slip as well as Mr 
Ys account statements. I was also satisfied that Commsave checked Mr Ys credit files and 
carried out affordability checks.
So, I said I was satisfied that Commsave did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
on Mr Ys loan application which included obtaining evidence of income. I was also satisfied 
that on the face of it the loan was affordable as Mr Ys income comfortably exceeded his 
outgoings. I said I cant fairly hold Commsave responsible for the fact that Mr Y didnt use 
the new loan to repay the existing debt as he said he intended to do.
I appreciated that the investigator said Commsave ought to have carried out further checks 
and in particular asked about the benefits payment. I made clear that I disagreed and was 
satisfied Mr Y declared it as additional income in the correct section on the application form. 
In any event I thought Mr Ys outgoings were clearly household outgoings and so 
Commsave would have been entitled to consider household income even if Mr Y had 
declared the benefits payments as being received by his wife.
I explained that Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I considered that issue had previously been looked at by us as part of the 
DMP complaint and it was not upheld. I said I could consider how Commsave dealt with Mr 
Y since that complaint but was satisfied that it did act positively and sympathetically. I could 
see it agreed a five month plan accepting payments of £10 a month. But I also saw that Mr Y 
wrote to it and told Commsave he was prioritising other debts over this loan as he felt other 
companies treated him more fairly. I said that Mr Y refused to make payments in order to 
force Commsave to negotiate with him. It follows that I was satisfied that Commsave tried to 
help Mr Y and could see it made a number of attempts to speak to him.  I also thought 
Commsave was reasonably entitled to question the financial details Mr Y provided as they 
didnt match the details in the original loan application
Overall, my provisional view was that Commsave carried out appropriate checks on Mr Ys 
application and that it tried to offer support to him.
Mr Y doesnt accept that view and says he was not treated fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and re-considered all of the arguments and evidence I have come to the 
same overall view that I reached in my provisional decision and for the exact same reasons. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman