DRN-3126859
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc told him that if he moved property that he would not 
be charged an early repayment charge (ERC) because of his work situation. Mr F put his 
property up for sale, but HSBC then charged him an ERC when the mortgage was 
redeemed.
What happened
Mr F had a mortgage with HSBC which had a fixed rate mortgage product. If the mortgage 
was redeemed during the term of the mortgage product an early repayment charge (ERC) 
was payable. Mr F redeemed the mortgage in April 2021 and was charged an ERC of 
£2,385.61. Mr F says that he shouldnt have to pay the ERC as he was told by a HSBC 
adviser in a phone call in October 2020 that as he was moving due to a new posting in the 
armed forces that he wouldnt be charged an ERC.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as under the terms 
of the mortgage product an ERC was payable and she could find no evidence to support 
what Mr F said about not having to pay an ERC. Mr F disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F had a mortgage product with a discounted rate. If the mortgage is redeemed early, a 
lender stands to lose money on the transaction so a lender to protect itself will normally 
require payment of an ERC as HSBC did here. The ERC is intended to protect a lender 
against a loss on a transaction when a mortgage product is redeemed early. If a customer 
moves property and takes a mortgage out with the same lender and the mortgage product is 
transferred - known as porting - an ERC may not be payable because the mortgage product 
has been transferred and the lender hasnt suffered a loss. But in this case Mr F says that 
HSBC was prepared to let him redeem his mortgage early and not pay an ERC without 
taking out another mortgage with HSBC, leaving HSBC with a potential loss.
Mr F says that that HSBC was prepared to do this was because of his occupation. HSBC 
says it has no such special policy towards military personnel and the same ERC rules apply 
to all borrowers. Mr F is essentially saying that the ERC wasnt to be applied to him because 
of his occupation. If that were so, I would have thought that when he took out the mortgage 
product at the start that there wouldnt be a clause with an ERC.  But there was such a 
clause and no special exemption for Mr Fs occupation which suggests that the normal rules 
applied to Mr F as to any other borrower and if the mortgage was redeemed and the 
mortgage product not ported that he would have to pay an ERC.
Mr F says that he had a phone conversation with a HSBC adviser who told him that he 
wouldnt have to pay the ERC. HSBC cant find this conversation although it has produced 
tapes of later conversations which dont refer to the ERC. The problem is if Im not able to 
hear the conversation Im relying on a recollection of a conversation several months later. 
Such recollections are not always accurate and parties may misunderstand what was said at 
the time. In those circumstances I have to consider on balance what is likely to have been 
said. Mr F is asking me to accept that a HSBC adviser told him that Mr F could proceed on a 
strategy that was contrary to the written terms of the mortgage product, contrary to HSBCs 
lending policy and those of other major lenders and would likely lead to a financial loss to 
HSBC. I believe that that is unlikely and that whilst there may have been a discussion about 
the ERC the adviser could  have told Mr F that the ERC wasnt payable in the circumstances 
of porting which didnt occur in this case.
My view is that Mr F should be bound by the terms of the mortgage product that he agreed 
with HSBC which is fair to both parties and so the ERC is payable. In those circumstances I 
cant fairly uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman