DRN-4307359
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way that Aviva Insurance Limited administered a private medical 
insurance policy after his partner, Miss I, sadly passed away.
What happened
Miss I held a personal private medical insurance policy, which also provided cover for Mr R.
In October 2022, Miss I was admitted to hospital. Sadly, she passed away in late November 
2022. Mr R made an NHS cash benefit claim on the policy on behalf of Miss Is estate and 
he let Aviva know that Miss I had passed away.
Aviva initially declined the claim, although it later accepted and paid the benefit. However, 
unfortunately, it sent marketing material to Miss Is email address, which caused Mr R 
distress and further upset. It paid Mr R £150 compensation to reflect its errors, which Mr R 
accepted.
Mr R let Aviva know that he wanted to cancel the policy. It seems there was a delay in Aviva 
processing the request and in the meantime, in February 2023, it sent a further notification to 
Miss Is email address, addressed to Miss I, which provided an update on the status of the 
cash benefit claim.
Unhappy and distressed by Avivas further administrative error, Mr R made a new complaint. 
He felt that Aviva should have placed a block on Miss Is account to prevent further emails 
being sent to her address.
Aviva apologised for its mistake. It said that as Miss I had been the primary policyholder, her 
account had remained active. It acknowledged that Mr R had sent in a request to cancel the 
policy in early February 2023. However, due to a delay in actioning Mr Rs instruction; the 
policy had remained live and the claim notification had been sent. It offered Mr R further 
compensation of £100 and it told Mr R it would provide feedback to the relevant team.
Mr R remained unhappy with Avivas administration of the policy and the upset it had caused 
him. He asked us to look into his complaint. Ive summarised his submissions to us. He felt 
that Avivas assertion that it couldnt have stopped the notifications was untrue. He thought it 
should have placed a stop on the communications being sent to Miss Is email address. He 
considered that Aviva had offered a derisory pay-off and that it should be financially 
punished by awards which reflect the grief these situations can cause. He felt that we could 
make it clear to Aviva that the way it operated its systems could cause a lot of upset and that 
we could impose financial penalties which would encourage it to act in a responsible and 
sympathetic manner. He told us that dealing with Aviva had caused him more pain and upset 
than it was worth, but that he wasnt prepared to stand by and let others in his position suffer 
the same negligence.
Our investigator accepted that Aviva had made a mistake in sending a further email to Miss 
Is email address. But he felt Aviva had made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation to 
reflect the impact of its error.
Mr R disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, I think Aviva has made a fair offer to 
settle his complaint and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr R for the sad loss of Miss I. I dont doubt 
what an upsetting time this has been for Mr R and its clear that this situation has caused 
him further, unnecessary upset.
Secondly, I must make clear the role of this service. Were not the industry regulator and we 
have no power to fine or punish the financial businesses we cover. Neither can we direct 
them to change their systems or procedures. And we cant fairly consider hypothetical 
situations. What we can do is to consider whether a financial business made any errors and, 
if it did, what fair redress would be in the individual circumstances of each complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr R feels about Avivas IT systems and his concerns about the 
potential impact of Avivas policy administration in situations such as these on other 
policyholders. But Im afraid that I simply dont have the power to direct Aviva to change its 
IT processes, or to punish Aviva for any mistakes it might make. And Im only considering 
the impact of Avivas errors here on Mr R.
It appears that Mr R voluntarily accepted Avivas offer of £150 compensation (along with the 
payment of cash benefit to Miss Is estate) to settle his first complaint. In the course of his 
correspondence with us, Mr R hasnt suggested that he feels this settlement should be set 
aside and hasnt indicated that it wasnt valid. So I dont think it would be appropriate for me 
to comment on the merits of Mr Rs first complaint, given it appears to have been settled. 
Instead, Ive focused on Mr Rs second complaint  that Aviva sent a second email to Miss 
Is email address, despite being aware that shed passed away.
Theres no dispute that Aviva had been made aware of Miss Is death in December 2022. 
Aviva said it added a marker to Miss Is policy at that point. Aviva also accepts that in 
February 2023, it sent a further email, addressed to Miss I, to her email address, which 
provided an update on the NHS cash benefit claim. It appears that prior to the email being 
sent, Mr R had already asked Aviva to cancel the policy, but thered been a delay in it 
actioning this request. Therefore, the policy remained live and the claim notification appears 
to have been automatically sent.
So I think its clear that Aviva has made errors. Firstly, there was a delay in processing Mr 
Rs cancellation request and this delay led to the generation of the claim update to Miss Is 
email address. Had the cancellation request been actioned more promptly, it seems to me 
that the claim update to Miss I is very unlikely to have been generated. And its unfortunate 
that an update email to Miss Is email address was sent, despite the marker on the account.
Mr R has told us that Avivas errors caused him additional trouble and upset and I accept 
that this was the case. I dont doubt how distressing it was when he found the email 
addressed to Miss I and sent to her email account, despite his earlier complaint. And as Ive 
set out above, I think this situation could have been avoided if Aviva had cancelled the policy 
sooner than it did. So I find that Aviva caused Mr R additional, unnecessary distress and 
frustration, when he was already grieving and in a difficult situation. And I find its appropriate 
for Aviva to pay compensation to reflect this.In my view, £100 compensation is a fair, reasonable and proportionate award to reflect the 
trouble and upset I think Mr R was likely caused when he found the email addressed to Miss 
I, which had been sent to her email address. So while I sympathise with his position, I find 
that Avivas offer of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable to reflect the impact I think its 
likely its mistakes had on him. So it follows that Im not directing Aviva to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Aviva has already made a fair 
offer to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and the 
estate of Miss I to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman