DRN-3092322
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund a transaction that was made from 
her account that she didnt recognise.
What happened
Miss B noticed a small payment had left her account to an online merchant Ill refer to as D. 
Miss B told Lloyds that she didnt make the transaction and they made a temporary refund to 
her account while they investigated the circumstances.
Lloyds started a chargeback process, which is a system designed to resolve issues with 
certain transactions and requires the merchant to provide the evidence they relied on to 
debit Miss Bs account. Lloyds received a reply from the merchant, which contained 
information about the transaction made using Miss Bs details, including her card details and 
the three-figure security number (CVV) from the card. The merchant also provided Miss Bs 
name, address and email address. The audit data later showed that two transactions to D 
had been made, one for a few pence and the second for the amount that Miss B identified.
Lloyds considered this information and thought that Miss B was responsible for the 
transactions. They wrote to Miss B about the response from the merchant, asking her if she 
had further information she could provide, but saying that the information theyd received 
indicated the transaction was made by her. The letter also advised that the temporary credit 
would be removed in ten days. Miss B later denied ever receiving this letter.
The temporary credit was taken back from Miss Bs account and she complained to Lloyds 
about how the issue had been handled. Lloyds investigated the complaint but didnt change 
their position.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service for an independent review, where it was looked 
at by one of our investigators. She thought that Miss B was responsible for the transactions 
and didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss B didnt agree and asked for a further review. The complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Lloyds can hold Miss B liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Lloyds have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card details were used to make the 
transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows the disputed transactions were 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Lloyds and Miss B agree to use the card for transactions. 
For example, when using the cards details, Lloyds agree to accept that this is a legitimate 
payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make the 
payment on their behalf. The first transaction in this case used the genuine card details 
including the CVV and the second used the card details apart from the CVV, so Im satisfied 
that consent was given and the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are 
exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Lloyds to hold Miss B responsible, for 
example if the card details were used without her permission.
Lloyds records indicate that when Miss B approached them about the unrecognised 
transactions, she explained that she didnt recognise the merchant. Lloyds dealt with Miss 
Bs issue based on this information and approached the merchant about it using the 
chargeback system. At this point, Lloyds understanding of the situation was that Miss B was 
denying that she made the transactions. When they received the information back from the 
merchant, it showed that D had recorded several pieces of personal information about Miss 
B and Lloyds own records identified that Miss Bs card and CVV had been used to authorise 
the first transaction.
Miss Bs complaint is that she didnt authorise the transactions to D, but the evidence shows 
that her personal details, the card number and the CVV had been provided to the merchants. 
Whilst its possible that an unknown third party could know certain details about Miss B, the 
CVV is a specific code that is linked to the debit card. So, its unlikely that this code, together 
with all the other details related to Miss B could be obtained by unknown third parties and 
used with the merchants. I say that because Miss B confirmed she hadnt lost her card or 
given the card details to anyone else. 
Id also question why someone other than Miss B would use the card details for such a small 
amount. If the details were somehow obtained by an unknown third party, I would expect 
other unauthorised uses of the card for much higher amounts. Its this Services experience 
that transactions similar to Miss Bs are the result of free trials or introductory offers on 
websites. But, the complaint from Miss B is that she didnt make these transactions or 
recognise this merchant, so thats the basis of how Lloyds dealt with the complaint, and not 
that she didnt receive the goods. The evidence Ive considered shows that its more likely 
than not that Miss B was responsible for making the transactions and it follows that I think its 
reasonable for Lloyds to hold Miss B liable for them.
Chargeback
The chargeback system follows a strict process and once Lloyds had received a response 
from the merchant, who was defending their right to charge Miss B, they notified Miss B in a 
letter. The letter told Miss B that they thought the transaction was her responsibility and that 
she could provide additional evidence if she had any. The letter said that the temporary 
withdrawal would be removed in ten days. Miss B has said she didnt receive this letter and 
because Lloyds didnt receive any response, the temporary credit was taken back out of 
Miss Bs account.
Lloyds records show that the letter was dispatched to the home address of Miss B and whilst 
I appreciate Miss B said she didnt receive it, there are no indications that the letter wasnt 
sent. I cant say what then happened because the delivery of letters requires other third 
partys to be involved, but there havent been any reports by Miss B that she had problems 
with her post or reported that to the postal delivery company. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
had done enough by sending the letter to Miss B at her correct home address.Lloyds then took back the temporary credit from Miss Bs account. Lloyds were following the 
chargeback process theyd told Miss B about and this had given time for Miss B to prepare 
her account for the removal of the temporary credit. Ive examined the statements and the 
redebit didnt take Miss Bs account into an overdraft. So, I think that Lloyds actions were in 
line with what they told Miss B and were a reasonable step for them to take because the 
chargeback had been successfully defended by the merchant.
The evidence Ive considered leads me to the objective conclusion that I think its more likely 
than not that Miss B made the transactions with D and it was reasonable for Lloyds to hold 
her liable for them and I wont be upholding this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman