DRN-3286848
The complaint
Miss D complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin (UKI) unfairly declined a claim 
against her motor insurance policy. 
Miss D thinks the claim should be met. 
What happened
In April 2021, Miss D reported a claim to UKI. She said someone had taken her car without 
her consent and was involved in an incident with another driver. 
UKI took statements from Miss D and her mum. Miss D had said she was with a friend at the 
time of the alleged theft and incident, whilst her mum was at Miss Ds home looking after her 
children, where she last saw her car before the incident. UKI tried to contact Miss Ds friend 
she was with, to also request a statement, but they were unable to obtain this. 
UKI said the statements provided by Miss D and her mum gave conflicting information and 
held several discrepancies. They also requested Miss D provide her car key, so they could 
analyse it, to discover when it was last used. UKI said the analysis showed the key was used 
at 7:25pm on the date the alleged theft and incident occurred  whereas, Miss D said she 
last used it approximately four hours before this. 
UKI said the key Miss D held was last used when the incident took place, meaning, the 
alleged thief would have had to have taken the key from Miss Ds person, and placed it back 
with her after the incident occurred. They didnt think Miss D had provided accurate 
information regarding how the alleged theft occurred, as such, they wrote to her in August 
2021 with their concerns, and asked Miss D to respond. They said Miss D couldnt alleviate 
their concerns. 
UKI declined the claim and referred to the policy terms. Miss D wasnt happy, so she 
complained, and as UKI didnt uphold it, she approached our service. 
Miss D said the police were involved given the nature of the claim. She said the police 
carried out forensic investigations and found someone she knew was driving the car on the 
date the incident occurred, and they were preparing to charge them for aggravated vehicle 
taking. The police also said dashcam footage showed there were other occupants in Miss 
Ds car at the time of the incident with the other driver, but they were unable to identify 
anyone else. Miss D said this demonstrates someone took her car without her consent and 
the claim was genuine. Although, due to UKIs concerns with the information Miss D 
provided, and the discrepancies, they still didnt agree to pay the claim. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. 
He agreed there were some discrepancies within what Miss D and her mum had reported to 
UKI. But he didnt think this demonstrated Miss D acted fraudulently or had tried to provide 
incorrect information in a bid to gain. He felt given someone had been arrested for taking 
Miss Ds car without her consent, this demonstrated there was a theft and therefore a valid 
claim. So, he recommended UKI should reconsider Miss Ds claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms, and remove any adverse information following the claim decline. 
Miss D agreed, but UKI didnt. They maintained the important evidence here was that the 
key Miss D said she held on her person was used when the incident occurred. Meaning the 
key would have been returned to her after the theft and incident  or, Miss D had given 
consent for her car to be driven. They also maintained their concerns regarding the 
information given to them by Miss D. As such, they asked for an ombudsman to decide, so 
its now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer requests information from a policyholder, ultimately what theyre trying to 
achieve is determining whether there is a valid claim. I agree here that there were some 
discrepancies within the information Miss D provided, and in what her mum described 
regarding the events. But I dont think its fair to say these discrepancies should be 
considered as Miss D attempting to make a fraudulent claim based on what happened. 
I think UKI had valid concerns regarding the analysis of the car key Miss D said she had on 
her person, before and after the theft and incident. UKI said this key was used in the car 
when the incident occurred, and was then back in Miss Ds person, as she provided UKI with 
it for analysis. UKI said Miss D to date hasnt provided a reasonable explanation in respect 
of this aspect, along with the other concerns they raised to her in August 2021.  
But, another important aspect here in my view, is the information regarding what the police 
reported to both Miss D and UKI. Neither party disputed the police made an arrest and 
reported they would be preparing charges against the person who was allegedly driving Miss 
Ds car when it was involved in an incident with another driver. Its been said the charges, 
amongst other things, include aggravated vehicle taking. Miss D has also said the alleged 
driver admitted to taking her car without her consent or knowledge. 
UKI says the police also explained the dashcam footage from the incident showed there 
were other people in Miss Ds car. Although, the police were unable to identify who those 
people were, so I dont think this places any considerable weight to either Miss D or UKIs 
argument. 
Therefore, Im satisfied this demonstrates there was a theft, and as such, a valid claim. So, 
despite the discrepancies  which I havent been persuaded should be considered as fraud  
I think Miss D reported a valid theft claim against the policy. Whilst I appreciate UKIs 
concerns about the information Miss D has provided, I consider these to be immaterial given 
its been established a theft took place by someone who took it without Miss Ds consent. 
So, its for that reason, I also think UKI should reconsider Miss Ds claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. I dont find they fairly declined the claim when relying on the fraud 
section of the policy. 
I accept my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to UKI, as Ive seen they 
had genuine concerns regarding the information they received, including from Miss D and 
her mum. But, for the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont think they declined the claim 
fairly. Putting things right
UKI must reconsider Miss Ds claim in line with the remaining policy terms, and remove any 
adverse information (if applicable) from external databases relating to the claim regarding 
Miss D. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. I now require U K Insurance 
Limited trading as Darwin to do the following: 
Reconsider Miss Ds claim in line with the remaining policy terms; and 
Remove any adverse information from external databases regarding this claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman