DRN-3214701
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), wont refund the money he lost after 
falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) investment scam whereby he sent 
money to two accounts held at Barclays.
What happened
In summary, Mr S fell victim to a social media investment scam. As part of the scam, Mr S 
made several payments from two bank accounts he held with two different providers, to two 
accounts held at Barclays.
Mr S made the following payments from his bank accounts to the following two accounts 
held at Barclays:
Account 1:
Time Date Amount
06:19am 13 March 2020 £550
11:43am 16 March 2020 £4,150
14:44pm 16 March 2020 £3,000
14:36pm 17 March 2020 £2,000
Account 2:
Time Date Amount
13:47pm 18 March 2020 £3,250
13:00pm 20 March 2020 £3,000
After the scam was revealed, Mr S complained to his Banks and also raised concerns about 
Barclays, where the receiving bank accounts were held. 
Both of Mr Ss Banks and Barclays are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards 
voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. 
Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or Receiving Firm, they may be required 
to reimburse the customer. And the customer may also be required to share some 
responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also failed to meet their requisite level of 
care under the CRM Code.
Barclays, once notified of the fraud, restricted the accounts in question. Barclays was able to 
recover £2,062.33 from one of the accounts, as that was all that remained. Barclays wasnt 
able to recover any funds from the other account as all the funds had already been moved 
on or withdrawn.
One of Mr Ss Banks refunded him 50% of his losses for the payments he made from that 
account. And Mr Ss other Bank declined to offer a refund as it considered Mr S hadnt met 
his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. Mr S referred that complaint to our service 
under a separate reference. A final decision was issued with the ombudsman considering 
that, under the CRM Code, Mr Ss Bank had acted fairly in choosing to decline reimbursing 
him for his losses.
Mr S says Barclays as the Receiving Firm should share some responsibility and refund half 
his loss as two of its accounts were used fraudulently. Mr S considers Barclays could have 
done more to prevent his loss and should have questioned the money that went into the 
accounts and that were then moved on / withdrawn.
Barclays didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Mr S incurred. It said it had complied with 
the regulatory requirements including identification and verification when opening and 
managing accounts and that all the relevant checks were followed at the time of the account 
openings. It explained that it had no way of knowing that the accounts were to be used for 
fraudulent purposes. It also advised that once it was notified of fraud it took the appropriate 
actions. Barclays also said that it was unable to confirm the details of the account holders 
due to data protection laws. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into things and 
didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do anything further. Overall, he was satisfied 
Barclays had met the standards required of it under the CRM Code and wasnt responsible 
for Mr Ss losses as it couldnt reasonably have done more to prevent Mr Ss loss. He was 
also satisfied it had responded appropriately to the notification of fraud. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Barclays  as the Receiving 
Firm of the accounts where Mr S made payments to. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im not upholding his complaint about Barclays. I know hes 
been the victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant 
impact on him. But I dont believe Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
answering of the complaint. Im satisfied Barclays has met its requirements under the CRM 
Code and therefore isnt liable for Mr Ss losses. Ill explain why.Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Barclays, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Barclays are a 
signatory of.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Barclays met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Barclays opened the receiving accounts 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the accounts were being used that should 
have given Barclays any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. If I consider there were failings in relation to any of the above, I have to consider whether 
Barclays acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr Ss loss.
I would like to point out to Mr S at this point, that while Barclays has provided our service 
with information about the receiving bank accounts  it has done so in confidence. This is to 
allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and Barclays has provided that which is 
necessary for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service 
cant share any information about the beneficiaries, the receiving bank accounts or any 
investigation and action Barclays subsequently took. However I would like to assure Mr S I 
have thoroughly reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my 
decision.
Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
However, our service only has powers to consider complaints about Receiving Firms since 
31 January 2019  and we cant consider any acts or omissions carried out by a Receiving 
Firm that occurred before this date. That means if the account was opened before this date, I 
am unable to comment or make a finding as to whether I consider a Firm may have failed in 
its obligations in any way.
In this case, both beneficiary accounts were opened prior to 2019, so I am unable to 
comment on or make a finding about the account opening process  as the act of Barclays 
opening the accounts happened prior to when our service had the power to look into 
complaints about Receiving Firms. However, Barclays still provided information about how 
both beneficiary accounts were opened and the documentation it obtained at the time from 
the beneficiaries. While I am unable to comment or make a finding here, for Mr Ss benefit, 
Barclays has said both accounts were opened in accordance with its procedures.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for both beneficiary accounts and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to Barclays as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for accounts of that type. Im also satisfied 
that the accounts had been running for a considerable time, and there was no notification of 
fraud on the accounts prior to the payments Mr S made into the accounts and no other red 
flags where it could reasonably be argued that Barclays might have had sufficient grounds to 
suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment instructions.So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays has demonstrated that it has taken 
reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam 
funds. I also dont think Barclays ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have 
expected it to have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr Ss loss in 
this way either.
Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Barclays took the 
necessary actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, only £2,062.33 
of Mr Ss funds remained in one of the beneficiary accounts which was returned to Mr S. And 
no funds remained in the other beneficiary account as they had already been moved on / 
withdrawn from the account.
 
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Barclays responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice 
Standards. And I dont think I can fairly say Barclays didnt do enough to respond to the 
alleged APP fraud.
Overall, while Mr S was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that Barclays met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Barclays couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr Ss money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Mr S for his remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman