DRN-4056488
The complaint
Miss L complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax did not do enough to protect 
her from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover 
the money once shed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ms L was a victim of an investment scam. She came across the scammers while she was on 
social media and noticed a friend had uploaded a post about an investment opportunity. The 
post claimed an investment of £1,000 could generate a return of £14,000 within four hours. 
Miss L contacted her friend to check she hadnt been hacked and her friend told her the 
investment was genuine and that shed made a large profit. The friend recommended a 
broker who claimed to work for a trading platform Ill refer to as M who she said Miss L 
should speak to. Before contacting the broker, Miss L checked her social media account 
which had 115,000 followers and featured photographs of her with her family.
 
Miss L contacted the broker on her social media page and found her to be friendly and 
approachable. The broker advised Miss L to invest in cryptocurrency and assured her the 
process was safe. She told Miss L to download an app which would be used to place the 
actual trades. Miss L thought the app seemed legitimate as it had sections on how to make 
safe and secure deposits, and there was a section at the bottom of the website stating the 
company was regulated by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The website also 
suggested M had been featured in NASDAQ, Yahoo, and Bloomberg and was regulated by 
the US government, the FCA, and CySec.
Before going ahead with the investment, Miss L read reviews about M and noted its conflict 
handling policies seemed legitimate.  The broker asked her to first purchase cryptocurrency 
through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an 
online wallet. Between 10 January 2022 and 19 January 2022, she made nine payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange company totalling £15, 817.09 using a debit card connected to her 
Halifax account. 
On 10 January 2022 Miss L made an initial payment of £313.27 to a cryptocurrency 
exchange company Ill refer to as C. The scammer did the trading on her behalf, and Miss 
L could see the trades on the app. Soon after making the initial deposit, Miss Ls trading 
account showed a negative figure and she was told shed need to pay a maintenance fee. 
The broker reassured her this was correct and so on 14 January 2022 she made a payment 
of £523.34. 
When Miss Ls account began to show a profit, the broker told her shed need to pay a 
commission fee on all successful trades, so on 17 January 2022, she made a payment of 
£1,092.83. She was then told she needed to pay mandatory tax, which she did.
On 17 January 2022, believing the reasons given by the broker, Miss L made a further five 
payments totalling £10,837.09. Unfortunately, the broker continued to give excuses as to 
why Miss L couldnt access her money, including the fact theyd a lost a portion of her 
money, at which point she realised she was the victim of a scam.
Miss L contacted Halifax on 27 July 2022 asking it to refund the money shed lost, but it said 
it was unable to do so as the disputed transactions were paid to a cryptocurrency exchange 
company who had successfully transferred her money to M via an e-wallet, as per their 
Terms and Conditions. As the exchange had completed their services, it was unable to raise 
a chargeback request. It also said that as the payments were made with a debit card, it 
couldnt use the Contingent reimbursement Model Code (CRM).
When Miss L complained to Halifax it said it would pay her £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by the fact it didnt process her new debit card correctly, but it 
maintained its position that it wouldnt refund the payments.
Ms L wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She explained shed been 
experiencing financial difficulties and had wanted to invest to regain her independence and 
position on the property ladder. She said she hadnt invested before, there had been no 
obvious red flags and she had trusted her friend. She said she thought the broker was 
genuine and had understood this was her first time investing. She had family members who 
had met brokers on social media and the broker had sent compliance documents and asked 
her to verify her own identity. 
She explained she hadnt wanted to get into trouble for not paying taxes as she knew this 
was required by law, and the later payments were driven by a fear of not being able to 
access her money and felt she had no choice.
Miss L complained about the way she was treated when she first reported the scam, 
explaining she didnt feel Halifax had properly reviewed her complaint. She argued the 
payments were unusual in comparison to her normal account activity, that Halifax should 
have contacted her to ask some questions and that in failing to do this it failed to protect her 
from financial harm.
Miss Ls representative argued that even though the CRM code didnt apply, Halifax still had 
a duty to look out for unusual or suspicious payments which might indicate the consumer 
was at risk of financial harm and to ask relevant questions which would uncover the fact they 
were falling victim to a scam.
Theyve suggested that if Halifax had asked her what the payments were for and the basic 
surrounding context, its likely she would have fully explained what she was doing and told it 
about the existence of the broker. And that while the money was being paid to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange company, Halifax should have provided a scam warning in light of 
all the information known to banks about the increasing number of cryptocurrency scams.
The representative argued the payments were suspicious because they were large, Miss L 
hadnt made payments to cryptocurrency exchanges before, they put Miss L into her 
overdraft which she hadnt done in the months prior and they were made in quick succession 
with many of them being in the same day (six transactions were on 17 January 2022). They 
said Halifax should have measures in place to identify unusual activity on its customers 
accounts and as it had failed to identify these payments as unusual, it had failed in its duty of 
care to protect Miss L. And that if it had stepped in to ask her about the transactions, she 
would not have proceeded with the transactions. Miss Ls representative also argued that Halifax failed to take necessary steps to recover the 
funds once shed reported the scam and to be more proactive in taking action to try and 
recover the money shed lost.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She accepted Halifax could 
have done more in the circumstances, but she didnt think a warning or intervention wouldve 
made a difference to Miss Ls decision to go ahead with the payments.
She explained that on 17 January 2022, the combined debits made were the highest amount 
paid by Miss L. But she noted shed carried out due diligence on M before proceeding, shed 
trusted the person whod introduced her to M and its website had confirmed it was regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), so she didnt think Miss L would have felt there 
was any cause for concern.
Miss Ls representative has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. They 
explained they dont agree an intervention from Halifax wouldnt have made a difference as 
Miss L has said she would have listened to the bank had they intervened and they dont 
accept the fact Miss L had performed due diligence means she wouldnt have listened to 
Halifax. Theyve argued that Halifax is an expert in financial matters and Miss L would have 
welcomed the advice and any scam education provided by Halifax especially as she was 
unaware how common these types of scams are.
They believe that with probing questions Halifax would have realised Miss L was likely falling 
victim to an elaborate investment scam. It would have learned she discovered the 
investment opportunity via social media, which would have been an immediate red-flag, as 
would the existence of a third-party broker acting on her behalf and asking her to make 
payments to cover commission fees and other taxes. And that with that information, Halifax 
could have made Miss L aware she was the victim of a scam by providing an effective 
warning which could have indicated she was being scammed.
The representative had argued these are common hallmarks of cryptocurrency scams and if 
Miss L had known about this, shed have acted in the advice she was given. Further, the 
representative explained that even though Miss L thought M was regulated by the FCA, it 
doesnt mean she wouldnt have acted on advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss L has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
CRM Code
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss L says theyve fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the payments were made using a debit card, and Im satisfied thats fair and 
applies to all the payments.
ChargebackIve thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Ms Ls payments when 
she reported the scam to it. Her own testimony supports that she used a cryptocurrency 
exchange to facilitate the transfers to M. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the 
merchant that received the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency 
exchange would have been able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, 
in exchange for Miss Ls payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to 
the wallet address provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied 
that Halifaxs decision not to raise a chargeback request against the cryptocurrency 
exchange company was fair.
Im satisfied Miss L authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Miss L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. I say this because Ive seen evidence of communications between Miss L 
and the scammer along with Miss Ls submissions about the tactics the scammer used to 
persuade her to invest more money, which are plausible and persuasive, and Im satisfied 
this is all consistent with M operating a scam. 
But, although Miss L didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did authorise the 
disputed payments. Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Halifax 
had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider 
scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss L when she 
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Halifax to intervene with a view to protecting Miss L from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Halifaxs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Miss L 
normally ran her account and I think they were. Over the nine payments, the largest was the 
eighth payment, which was £5109.47. Significantly, on 17 January 2022, Ms L made six 
payments in one day which added up to £10,837.09. By the time Miss L mad the fourth 
payment that day, shed paid £5,727.62 in one day which far exceeded her usual spending 
and Im satisfied Halifax should have called her to ask her about that payment and the other 
payments shed made that day. During this call I would expect Halifax to have asked some probing questions about the 
payments including whether there was a third-party involved, how she came into contact with 
the third-party, whether shed researched the scam company and the rate of return shed 
been promised.
Im satisfied that if Miss L had been asked these questions, shed have answered truthfully 
because theres no evidence of her having misled the bank before or that she was told to do 
so by the scammers. And, consequently, Im satisfied that shed have explained how she 
came into contact with the broker, the returns shed been promised and the tactics the 
broker had used to persuade her to invest more money.
Based on this information, Im satisfied Halifax would likely have gathered enough 
information to suggest the investment could be a scam, and I would then expect it to warn 
Miss L about the risks associated with the investment and explain the investment had some 
of the hallmarks of a cryptocurrency scam. 
However, there were no warnings about M on either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
or International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOCSO) websites and our 
investigator has said she doesnt believe a call from Halifax would have made a difference to 
Miss Ls decision to go ahead with investment.
Ive carefully considered this and while I accept M was advertised on social media and 
promised high returns, there were no checks which Halifax could have recommended which 
would have confirmed it was operating a scam. I accept Miss L didnt have a history of high 
risk investing and that she would have taken Halifaxs advice seriously, but she trusted the 
broker who she said had appeared knowledgeable and competent and had lots of followers 
on social media, and she was convinced by the professional looking website, in particular 
the fact shed had to provide ID verification before opening the account and the live chat 
option. She was also confident the investment was legitimate because the broker had been 
recommended by a friend who she trusted and I think that, on balance, in the absence of 
actual evidence that M was operating as a scam, she would probably have gone ahead with 
the investment, notwithstanding a scam warning from Halifax.
Overall, I accept Halifax missed an opportunity to intervene but, on balance, I think its 
unlikely an intervention from Halifax would have made a difference to Miss Ls decision to go 
ahead with the payments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman