DRN-1943335
The complaint
Ms P complains about how Lloyds Bank Plc dealt with an online payment she wanted to 
make from her account. Shes also unhappy about the service she received afterwards.
What happened
Ms P holds a number of accounts with Lloyds. On 9 December 2019 Ms P attempted to 
make a bank transfer for just over £2800 to a travel agent for flight tickets from her cash 
account. She wasnt able to make the payment using a card because she didnt have a card 
for that account. And she hadnt made a payment to this recipient before. 
Ms P said this transaction was particularly time sensitive and upsetting to make as she 
needed to travel abroad to attend an imminent funeral of a close family member. She said 
this was what the flight tickets were for. 
Lloyds said, after Ms P attempted to make the payment, it was flagged as suspicious by its 
anti-fraud systems. So, it was blocked. Mrs P contacted Lloyds fraud department in order to 
request that it authorise the transaction. But Lloyds said it wasnt happy with the payment or 
Ms Ps responses to its questions about the reasons for the transaction. Lloyds said it 
thought Ms P was being scammed. And it told her it couldnt release the temporary block 
that had been placed on her account or authorise the payment. Ms P was told shed need to 
attend her branch with ID.
Ms P attended her branch the following day with her passport. The staff member there 
contacted Lloyds fraud department as per its process. Ms P said she answered the 
questions she was asked by the fraud department representative. But Lloyds said she didnt 
do so to the level required. Ms P told Lloyds she no longer needed to make the payment to 
the travel agent as they had, by now, been paid by alternative means. But Lloyds declined to 
restore her access to her account and sought to invoke its banking protocol.
Ms P left the branch unhappy that her account remained restricted. She subsequently 
travelled abroad to attend the funeral but said she had to return earlier than planned in order 
resolve the issues with her account. She said having her account restricted caused her 
distress and inconvenience. 
On 23 December 2019 Ms P reattended her branch in efforts to restore access to her 
account. Lloyds, again, telephoned its fraud department in Ms Ps presence in line with its 
policy. And it followed banking protocol due to concerns that she was a vulnerable 
customer and the victim of a scam. The police attended and the restrictions on Ms Ps 
account were removed.
Ms P felt the way in which shed been treated by Lloyds was unfair. So, she complained. 
When Lloyds responded to her complaint it confirmed that her payment had triggered a fraud 
alert. And it explained that, in the interests of security, it asked her to attend her branch with 
ID. It stated that, during Ms Ps branch visit it followed its enhanced security process and 
requested a visit from the police as a security measure in line with banking protocol. Overall, it didnt feel it had made an error. It felt it had acted in Ms Ps best interests and it 
didnt uphold her complaint.
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to her complaint Ms P referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought Lloyds had dealt with her complaint fairly. So they 
didnt recommend upholding it. But Ms P disagreed and asked for her complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Ms P and Lloyds that Ive read everything that theyve provided. 
So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms P experienced here. I can see she was going 
through an extremely traumatic time following the death of a family member. And I can 
appreciate that she was caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. But the 
issue here is whether I think Lloyds made a mistake, or treated Ms P unfairly, such that it 
needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she and Lloyds 
have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Ill focus first on Lloyds decision to subject Ms Ps payment transfer for a fraud check. I 
appreciate this payment was authentic. But banks have a duty to have robust strategies to 
safeguard customer accounts from potentially fraudulent transactions and scams. Preventing 
fraud and protecting customers from scams is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. To do so a bank may subject online payments to a security check as Lloyds did 
here.
I understand that when Lloyds blocked Ms Ps online transfer it was an inconvenient and 
frustrating experience. But, I think Lloyds had reason to suspect this transaction wasnt 
authentic as it was to a recipient Ms P hadnt paid before and it was for a large amount. 
From reviewing statements of Ms Ps account I can see this payment was an out of 
character transaction. So, I can understand why Lloyds had cause to be vigilant and have 
concerns about the authenticity of the payment. 
Ive listened to the recording of the telephone call Ms P made to Lloyds fraud department on 
the date she tried to make her payment online. Its clear during that telephone call that 
Lloyds had concerns surrounding the transaction Ms P had asked it to make. Based on the 
evidence available, I can understand how it felt she could have been the victim of a scam. 
And in those circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline to make the 
transaction on Ms Ps behalf and ask her to attend her branch with ID. 
Ms P complains that the way she was treated in branch was unfair. But based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I can understand why Lloyds continued to have concerns about the 
payment Ms P was wishing to make. 
I can see Ms P told Lloyds in branch that she no longer wanted to proceed with the transfer. 
Shes told our investigator that continuing to apply account restrictions was unnecessary and 
unfair given that shed produced satisfactory ID, answered its questions and retracted her payment request. But Lloyds had a duty to safeguard her account in circumstances where it 
still had reason to believe Ms P was the victim of a scam  as it did here.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, its clear Lloyds was concerned that unblocking Ms Ps 
account would leave her vulnerable to exploitation and financial loss. Having listened to the 
recording of the telephone call Lloyds made to its fraud department in Ms Ps presence I 
dont think that concern was unreasonable. And Im not persuaded she was dealt with in an 
unfair manner.
I can understand Mr Ps frustrations regarding what happened. Shes told our service the 
action Lloyds took here caused significant disruption to her travel plans. But Im satisfied that 
the action Lloyds took here was motivated by a desire to act in Ms Ps best interests. 
Ms P disputes that it was necessary for Lloyds to invoke banking protocol. But its entitled 
to determine its own policy in relation to how it deals with payments it suspects to be 
fraudulent and customers it believes to be vulnerable. So, our service cant comment on 
whether a business policy is right or tell it that its policy should be changed. Impartially 
though I think invoking banking protocol was a reasonable precaution for it to adopt here. I 
understand this caused inconvenience and upset to Ms P. But I dont think Lloyds had an 
alternative given its concerns about the payment Ms P had wanted it to make remained 
unresolved.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that Lloyds made an error 
in how it dealt with Ms Ps payment. The terms and conditions of her account entitle Lloyds 
to decline to make payments it suspects to be fraudulent or where it believes a customer is 
at risk of a scam. They also permit Lloyds to restrict a customers account where it feels 
thats necessary in their best interest.
Here Im satisfied Lloyds was simply trying to safeguard Ms Ps account from potential fraud 
and abuse. So, taking everything into consideration, I cant fairly conclude that the way in 
which it responded was unreasonable in the circumstances. Im also satisfied Lloyds 
restored Ms Ps access to her account as promptly as it could once it was safe for it to do so 
 once its concerns had been allayed.
I understand Ms P feels very strongly about the issues raised in his complaint and I 
recognise the problems she experienced took place following the death of a close family 
member. But for the reasons already outlined I think Lloyds has dealt with this complaint 
fairly and done all it can to resolve this dispute. I realise Ms P will be disappointed with this 
decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve her dispute with Lloyds 
informally, can do for her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman