DRN-1595142
 
The complaint
Mr F and Miss F complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc ("RBS") mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a 
claims management company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2011. The policy was taken out to cover
their mortgage and was in Mr Fs name only. It provided him with cover for accident,
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs F didnt
agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
RBS didn't recommend the PPI so it didnt need to ensure that it was suitable for Mr F and 
Miss F.
So the key question I need to consider is did RBS give Mr F and Miss F information that
was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make
an informed choice about the insurance they were buying?
And, if there was a problem with the way the policy was sold, then I need to consider
whether Mr F and Miss F are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the
sale?
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Mr F and Miss F say they didn't know the PPI was optional. They say the paperwork was all 
pre-prepared and they were just told to sign it. So they thought they had to have the PPI. I 
can't be sure exactly what was discussed, so I've placed reliance on the paperwork that was 
completed at the time.
I can see the paperwork was completed electronically, but this would have been in response 
to information provided by Mr F and Miss F. There is a separate section in the mortgage 
application headed "Your protection". A discussion about the different types of insurance 
policies available must have taken place for this section of the mortgage application form to 
be completed. Mr F and Miss F decided they didn't want to take out property insurance with 
RBS, but they did want to apply for mortgage payment protection. I can see there was an opportunity for Mr F and Miss F to say that they did not want this cover. But they applied for 
cover for Mr F. They probably decided to take it in his name only because Miss F was self 
employed. I think this shows Mr F and Miss F were given a choice about whether to take the 
PPI. 
I note also that Mr F and Miss F were required to sign a statement which confirmed they 
wished to apply for mortgage payment protection and that, in the mortgage offer, information 
about the PPI was included under the heading, "Optional insurance that you do not have to 
take out through The Royal Bank of Scotland plc". So, despite what they recall now, I think 
the paperwork made it clear they didn't have to have the PPI for their mortgage 
application to be successful.
Overall, I think RBS made Mr F and Miss F aware that PPI was optional and they chose to 
take it out.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr F and Miss F about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it should have been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy if
they had received better information. I say this because:
The policy was taken out in Mr F's name only and he was eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr F wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely he needed better 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr F told us he would have received statutory sick pay if he couldn't work due to sickness or 
an accident and that he didn't have any other means - apart from maybe family - of meeting 
the mortgage repayments. The mortgage was a major long term financial commitment and 
Mr F and Miss F's home was at risk if they couldnt meet the repayments. They chose to 
take out cover for Mr F so I think they probably wanted to make sure their mortgage 
payments would be covered if he couldnt work, or became unemployed. The policy would 
have covered him for up to 12 months, so could have been a useful benefit.
I've taken into account that Mr F and Miss F say they could have relied on family to help if Mr 
F couldn't work. But as this wasn't a guaranteed source of income, this does not change my 
conclusion.
The cost of the policy - £14.66 each month - was set out in the mortgage offer. But I can see 
this was at the bottom of page five of a ten page document and might have been overlooked 
by Mr F and Miss F. So I've considered whether, if they'd been given clearer information 
about the cost, they would have still taken the policy. They'd chosen to take the policy, 
knowing they would have to pay something for it - they signed a separate direct debit 
mandate. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
they would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr F and Miss F would have made a different 
decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall 
I think they would have still taken out the policy.
 My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman