DRN-2145688
The complaint
Mrs M  on behalf of L Ltd  complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) 
have unfairly declined her property owners liability claim.
What happened
Mrs M engaged the owner of another limited company (whom Ill refer to as A) to open the 
gates at either end of the shopping parade in which L Ltd is located. In July 2019, A was 
injured while opening the gates and subsequently initiated a personal injury claim against L 
Ltd.
Mrs M submitted a claim under her property owners liability policy with Hiscox, but they 
declined the claim, citing an exclusion for any claims linked to bodily injury arising to any 
person in the course of their employment under a contract of service. Hiscox said their 
solicitor considered that the long-standing relationship between L Ltd and A would likely be 
considered by the courts as one of employment, so the claim was not covered.
Mrs M complained and said Hiscox had not acted fairly as she did not consider A to be 
engaged under a contract of service or employed by her. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that the arrangement between A and 
L Ltd would most likely be construed as a contract for services, so she didnt think it was fair 
for Hiscox to rely on the exclusion. Hiscox disagreed, but made no further submissions in 
response, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. 
Hiscox believe that the arrangement between A and L Ltd is a contract of employment due to 
certain cases identified by their solicitor where the courts have deemed self-employed 
persons to be entitled to claim statutory rights as an employee  with a non-delegable duty 
of care therefore being owed to them by their employer. 
Ive thought about what the law says on this point, and my understanding is that a contract of 
employment (i.e. of service rather than for services) generally involves a greater degree of 
control and assumption of risk and reward by the employer. Relevant considerations include 
(amongst other things) whether the worker has engaged himself to perform services as a 
person in business on his own account, and such matters as whether the man performing 
the services provides his own equipment, whether he hires his own helpers, what degree of 
financial risk he takes, what degree of responsibility for investment and management he has, 
and whether and how far he has an opportunity from profiting from sound management in 
the performance of his task (as per the judgment of Mr Justice Cooke in Market 
Investigations Ltd v Minister of Social Security [1969] 2 QB 173 which was subsequently 
endorsed by the Privy Council in Lee Ting Sang v Chung Chi-Keung [1990] 2 AC 374 and is 
still good law).
Hiscox consider the arrangement to be a contract of service due to the long-standing 
relationship between the two parties. But this is not a sole determining factor and all the 
relevant circumstances of the arrangement must be taken into account.
Mrs M has explained that A has no contract of employment. He sends his invoices for work 
completed to L Ltd and is responsible for his own tax deductions and other financial affairs. 
Mrs M said A was also engaged by L Ltd to clean its disabled toilet twice a week, but that A 
had hired another person to carry out this task. A also arranged his own cover for opening 
the gates when he was away  and has no doubt profited from the sound management in 
the performance of the tasks for which his company was responsible. So, for all intents and 
purposes, it appears that the services completed by A have been performed by him as a 
person in business on his own account and, as such, should be regarded as a contract for 
services according to the test set out in the Market Investigations case. 
I appreciate that A may be pursuing an employers liability claim. But the fact that As 
solicitors have positioned the claim as such does not mean he was in fact an employee or 
will be considered as one by the courts. And having considered all the circumstances, I 
consider it is more likely that A was engaged under a contract for services rather than a 
contract of service. So I think Hiscox has declined L Ltds claim unfairly and will need to put 
things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited to reconsider L Ltds property owners liability claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M  on behalf 
of L Ltd  to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman