DRN-3455306
The complaint
Ms P complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC, trading as AvantCredit, lent to her irresponsibly 
and without carrying out proper affordability checks. She would like all the fees and charges 
associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In October 2014 AvantCredit approved a loan of £1,000 for Ms P, which was scheduled 
to be repaid at approximately £95 per month over a term of 12 months. The purpose of 
the loan is not clear, although latterly AvantCredit has suggested it may have been 
intended to consolidate other lending. When assessing the application, AvantCredit 
asked Ms P about her financial circumstances; looked at a recent bank statement; and 
carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
It appears the loan was repaid successfully.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought AvantCredit shouldnt have 
approved the lending for Ms P. AvantCredit disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look 
at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, and Ill explain why.
AvantCredit is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time 
of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Ms P would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, she needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have 
to borrow elsewhere to repay AvantCredit for the loan to be considered affordable 
and sustainable.
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will 
deal with separately below.
Did AvantCredit carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
In short, yes I am satisfied it did. It reviewed a recent bank statement; carried out a credit 
check, and appears to have asked her some basic information about her outgoings. Given 
the size and term of this loan, I think those checks were proportionate.
Was AvantCredit right to conclude that the lending was affordable and sustainable for Ms P?
In short, the available evidence does not support that conclusion. Ill summarise the key 
issues.
The bank statement showed that Ms P was frequently over her agreed overdraft limit, 
which itself was larger than her monthly income. So there was no evidence that her 
current account was ever in credit.
The statement also showed recent borrowing from, and large repayments to, about 
six high cost short term lenders.
The credit check showed at least one defaulted account; an unsecured lending 
balance of nearly 50% of her annual income; and total monthly repayments 
exceeding Ms Ps monthly income.
Following the adjudicators view outlining all this evidence, AvantCredit sent a lengthy and 
detailed response where it first introduced the idea of this loan being for consolidation. In 
fact, it provided quite a lot of fresh evidence in defence of its position, but without context or 
explanation. I asked some questions to enable the source of this evidence and its relevance 
to the key issues to be understood, but those questions have gone unanswered. Therefore it 
is difficult for me to place any weight on the calculations and assertions made.
As a result of all the clear signs of financial difficulties set out at the start of this section, I 
cannot see how in 2014 AvantCredit concluded that this loan would be affordable and 
sustainable for Ms P. So it follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms P, AvantCredit must:
A) refund all interest, fees and charges Ms P paid towards the loan;
B) add 8% simple interest* calculated on the refund, from the date the payments were made, 
to the date the complaint is settled; and
C) remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ps credit file in relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman