DRN-2905077
The complaint
Ms O complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy with a personal loan.
What happened
Ms O took out a personal loan with Lloyds in 1997 during a meeting. At the same time she 
took out a single premium PPI policy to protect the repayments. The cost of the policy was 
added to the loan. This meant that interest was charged on this.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms O disagreed with the
adjudicators view. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Ms O, but Ive decided not to uphold the
complaint. I set out my reasons below.
Because it took place over 20 years ago, Lloyds no longer has much information about the 
sale. And businesses arent required to keep such records over such long time
periods. But although Lloyds no longer has a copy of the loan agreement signed by Ms O, it 
has provided a sample of the type of agreement that it says was in use at the time. I have no 
reason to assume that this type of agreement was not used for Ms Os loan.
The sample loan agreement shows that, under the heading Optional Loan Repayment 
Protection, the cost of the PPI loan, and the monthly repayments for it, were to be entered 
separately from the consumers cash borrowing and its monthly repayments. I think that 
before signing the agreement Ms O would have queried the PPI figures had she not wanted 
to take the insurance. 
Lower down in the agreement is a box which can be marked to show whether PPI is being 
taken and, if so, in effect, whether the premium for it will be advanced as a loan or not. I find 
that this, together with the heading referred to above, would have made it clear that the PPI 
was optional. And, because of what Ive said above about the PPI figures being set out in the 
agreement, I find that Ms O knew that she was taking the insurance. And that she actively 
decided to take it, knowing she had a choice.
As the loan was taken out in a meeting, I find it that I agree with Lloyds that it advised Ms O 
to take the policy. This means that Lloyds needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that 
the policy was suitable for her needs. As I dont know what happened during the meeting, I 
dont know what steps Lloyds actually took. However, by reference to terms and conditions 
of her policy and what I know about her circumstances at the time, I find that the policy was 
suitable for Ms O. I say this because:
Ms O was eligible for all the policy;
Ms O wasnt adversely affected by any of the main limitations and restrictions of the 
policy  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Ms O hasnt told us about any entitlement she may have had to sick pay from her 
employer at the time of the sale. Or of any savings or other insurance that she had at 
that time, which could have helped meet her loan repayments had she not been working. 
But, following a successful claim, the policy would have paid Ms Os monthly loan 
repayments for up to 12 months, in the case of her having become involuntarily 
unemployed. In the case of her being off work because of accident or illness, the 
payments would have been made until the earlier of her return to work or the loan being 
repaid. These payments would have been made in addition to any sick pay, savings or 
other insurance payments. So, I think that the policy could have been of use to Ms O;
If Ms O had repaid her loan early, she would not have been given a proportional refund 
of the premium shed paid for the policy. So, this made them relatively inflexible. I dont 
know whether Lloyds considered this or explained the situation clearly to Ms O. But I 
havent found any reason to think that, at the time she took the policy, Ms O thought it 
likely she would be paying off the loan before the end of its term. So, I dont think the 
policys lack of flexibility made it unsuitable for her. And I dont think she would have 
been put off buying it if Lloyds had clearly explained this;
Because not all the figures are still available, assumptions have had to be made on the 
cost of the policy and the monthly benefit that would have been payable following a 
successful claim. These assumptions have been based on what Lloyds knows generally 
about the way in which its loans and policies were set up. On this basis, I havent seen 
anything to make me think the premium for the policy was unaffordable for Ms O. Or that 
the costs were uncompetitive by reference to other similar polices available in the market 
at the time.
Lloyds also needed to give Ms O enough information for her to decide if she wanted to buy
the policy. From the sample loan agreement, I think its likely the information Lloyds gave
her  particularly in relation to the interest shed have to pay on the loan for the premium 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears
to have wanted this type of cover. And I dont think the likely amount of interest payable on
the premium would have been enough to put her off. So having concluded that it was
suitable for her, I dont think better information would have changed Ms Os mind about
buying it. I still think she would have thought it gave her valuable cover at an affordable 
price.
So, from my above conclusions, I dont find that Ms O has lost out because of anything
Lloyds may have done wrong during the sales. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said earlier, Ive carefully considered everything that Ms O said. In responding to our 
adjudicators view, Ms O said that had she known about the amount of interest payable on 
the PPI, which may not have been explicitly explained to her, she wouldnt have taken it. I 
dont doubt that this is what Ms O now feels would have been her decision at the time. But 
the sample agreement shows that the total monthly payment for the PPI, (inclusive of the 
interest), would have been set out as well as the total of the monthly payments for the cash 
loan together with the PPI. And, as these didnt deter her from proceeding with the loan 
with the PPI added, I dont think that I can rely solely on how Ms O now thinks she would 
have behaved so many years ago. So her response to the view does not change my 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman