DRN-3293372
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was around 3 years old and had covered 
around 40,000 miles.
Mr A experienced issues with the car in the first month. At this time, the car was still covered 
by the manufacturers warranty, and the manufacturer arranged for repairs.
Mr A continued to experience issues. He complained to MotoNovo in June 2021. IN 
response, MotoNovo said that because the manufacturer had accepted liability for the faults 
by repairing the car under warranty, it wasnt upholding the complaint.
Mr A was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that there were faults with the car at the point of supply which made it of unsatisfactory 
quality. The investigator said it was more likely that the faults had developed due to wear 
and tear.
Mr A didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition, and other things including fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr A  to have a degree of wear and tear and to 
require repairs and maintenance more often than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car which 
made it of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, as opposed a to a fault which 
occurred due to general wear and tear.
Under the relevant legislation, where the goods dont conform to the contract within the first 
6 months, its presumed that they didnt conform to the contract at the point of supply, unless 
the business can show otherwise. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up 
to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues which occurred with the car. All 
of the repairs have been arranged by the manufacturer under the warranty, so neither the 
supplying dealer nor MotoNovo hold any information about these repairs. Ive seen evidence 
which shows that the clutch, flywheel and starter motor were replaced on 8 October 2020, 
and that the ECU and engine wiring loom were replaced in July 2021, outside of the first 6 
months. I havent seen any evidence which suggest that the faults were present at the point 
of supply.
Ive taken the mileage of the car into account. When the repairs were carried out in October 
2020, the car had covered around 7,204 miles since the point of supply, over a period of 
around 10 months. If there had been a fault with the clutch, the flywheel or the starter motor 
at the point of supply, I would have expected the fault to have occurred sooner than 10 
months into the agreement. Because of this, I think its more likely that the fault developed 
due to general wear and tear, as a result of Mr A using the car.
Because theres no evidence that the repairs related to faults which were present at the point 
of supply, Im unable to safely conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply.
Mr A has said that the repairs which were caried out on the car werent items which he would 
have expected to replace on a car of this age and mileage. Ive thought about this, and about 
whether the car was durable, because durability is an aspect of satisfactory quality. Taking 
the age and mileage of the car into account, and the dates when the repairs were carried 
out, I dont think its unreasonable to expect that parts would need to be repaired or replaced.
Whilst I understand that Mr A is unhappy about the issues he experienced with the car, Im 
unable to say that there is evidence to persuade me that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied, so I wont be asking  MotoNovo to do anything.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman