DRN-4163236
The complaint
Mr R complains that WorldRemit Ltd told him incorrect information which led to him sleeping 
rough for two nights in an overseas country.
What happened
Mr R says that he tried to send some money to himself as he was travelling, and he was 
overseas. He tried to send money to himself the day before a national holiday in the country 
he was in, so he was aware that he needed to send the money to pay for a hotel room the 
day before everything shuts down for the holidays. But the transfer didnt appear to have 
completed so he contacted WorldRemit via the chat facility. 
Mr R was told that there was a technical error, and he didnt need to do anything. But when 
he contacted WorldRemit again the following day, he was told the transfer wasnt successful 
because he entered a telephone number incorrectly. Mr R didnt think this mattered as he 
believed they had a two stage verification process. Mr R made a complaint to WorldRemit, 
he suggested appropriate compensation of £500,000. Mr R says that as a result of what 
happened, he was traumatised by having to sleep rough on the streets in an overseas 
country and he was without access to his own money for two to three days.
WorldRemit did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said the reason his initial transaction 
failed was a result of him entering an invalid phone number. They quoted section 3.5 of their 
terms and conditions and section 13.10 of the terms, where it states they will not be liable to 
him for any errors caused by incomplete or incorrect information provided by him to them. 
WorldRemit confirmed there was no evidence that they had committed fraud or theft. They 
also said that they were closing Mr Rs account under section 18.3 of the terms of the 
account due to the tone and language he used towards their staff and his threats towards 
WorldRemit. Mr R brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. He said he was unable to see that there 
was any fraud or theft by WorldRemit. While Mr R may have felt that he was without money, 
this wasnt due to a fault by them as Mr R had input the incorrect telephone number. He said 
Mr R had made some concerning statements to the firm, but even though Mr R said he had 
to sleep rough because of this it wouldnt authorise him to make threatening statements 
towards the members of staff or firm. And that their terms mention that any threatening 
behaviour can lead to termination of the agreement between them and the consumer, which 
he agreed with WorldRemits decision to close his account. Mr R asked for an Ombudsman 
to review his complaint. 
During my investigation into Mr Rs complaint, WorldRemit offered £100 compensation to 
resolve Mr Rs complaint. But Mr R did not respond to the offer.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Error with incorrect telephone number
Ive considered what happened regarding the initial transfer. As Mr R input an incorrect 
telephone number (due to him also entering the country code when this was pre-populated), 
this is why the transfer didnt complete as it should have done, and WorldRemit wouldnt be 
responsible for this. But Mr R did use the live chat facility when he thought there was a 
problem with the payment. He was told at around 1am Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), 
around 7am in the country that Mr R was in at the time that I can confirm that this has been 
affected with the technical issue that we're experiencing with our local partner. Don't worry 
we have marked the transaction as "urgent" and will look to process it as soon as possible. 
We'll keep you posted through SMS/email. Appreciate your patience and hope to update you 
shortly.
As the issue was to do with the incorrect telephone number being entered and not a 
separate technical issue which WorldRemit must have been experiencing at the time, then 
Mr R was given incorrect information. So after further investigation, it transpires that had Mr 
R been made aware of the error with the telephone number, he would have had the 
opportunity to make another transfer for collection with a WorldRemit local partner later that 
same day (as it was 7am where he was) as WorldRemit have confirmed that the local 
partners branch should have been open from 8am-5pm Monday-Fridays (excluding 
holidays). 
As Mr R was not affected by the other technical issue that WorldRemit were experiencing, 
then his transaction wouldnt have been processed as soon as possible as he was told on 
the chat. Mr R was also told on this chat For now, you dont have to do anything, but again 
this was not correct, as the telephone number needed to be changed, so the collection of the 
money from the local partner could be made. 
Mr R did not receive an update from WorldRemit, so he used the live chat to message them 
the following day. He told WorldRemit that he had to spend the night on the streets due to 
not being able to collect his funds. It was only on this chat that he was made aware of the 
error. And although the issue was rectified on this chat, it was a public holiday in the country 
Mr R was residing in, so WorldRemits local partners branch was closed. This resulted in Mr 
R being unable to pick up the cash, which he says this meant he had to spend another night 
on the streets. So due to WorldRemits error, Ill be asking them to compensate Mr R for their 
error.
Closure of Mr Rs WorldRemit account
WorldRemits terms and conditions  which Mr R wouldve needed to agree to upon opening 
his account, state under section 18.3 that "We can terminate the Agreement with immediate 
effect if you . (c) through any means of communication intimidate, harass or threaten us, 
our employees, officers, agents. Service Providers or customers with violence, property 
damage or any other offensive, indecent, discriminatory or hateful material". Due to Mr Rs 
interactions with WorldRemit, Im satisfied that he met the threshold for his account to be 
closed down. He made several threats to WorldRemit and while he was frustrated about 
what occurred, these threats continued over a number of weeks. So Im not persuaded that 
WorldRemit did anything wrong by exercising their right to close Mr Rs account under 
section 18.3 of the terms and conditions. 
Freedom of Information (FOI) request 
I can see from the chat transcript that Mr R asked WorldRemit for a call recording and chat 
transcripts, which he said if they dont provide him now he would go down the FOI or the 
General Data Protection Regulation route. Mr R submitted a FOI request to WorldRemit. But it appears Mr R retracted this as WorldRemit told us he contacted them saying I also 
previously submitted a FOI request, but realize that may not be the correct course of action, 
after having consulted with my solicitor about that matter. The Freedom of Information Act 
only covers public bodies, so this is why WorldRemit would be unlikely to fulfil any requests 
under a FOI which Mr R asked them.
I can see that from the chats Mr R had prior to bringing his complaint to them that 
WorldRemit has sent Mr R the chat transcripts he had with them and attached these to the 
final response letter they issued. If Mr R has any concerns that WorldRemit have broken any 
Data Protection Rules, he may wish to make The ICO aware of this. Mr R may wish to file a 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) if there is any other personal information he requires 
from them, but as WorldRemit have confirmed he did not include any points about a DSAR 
(or any breaches of the Data Protection Act) in his original complaint to WorldRemit, then Im 
unable to consider this any further as part of this complaint. 
Compensation
Ive considered the impact of WorldRemits initial error. While Mr Rs initial chat finished on 
the morning of 13 April 2022, he was without the money he shouldve been able to collect 
that day. So he says he had to spend two nights sleeping rough on the street. Ive 
considered the amount of compensation that Mr R has asked for. This has ranged from a 
request for a four figure sum up to £500,000. But compensation is a discretionary remedy 
that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore 
caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally 
flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our 
established guidelines.
Ive read everything Mr R has said about his health at the time and the impact of what 
happened overseas has had on him moving forward. And although I wont document his 
conditions in this decision to protect Mr Rs anonymity, I can reassure him Ive read 
everything hes said about this. But he has also told us that he can't provide us with any real 
medical proof that this incident has made his health any worse, but it certainly didnt help.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Its possible that Mr R 
may have been able to mitigate the effects of what happened, despite WorldRemits error 
not being his fault. I say this as if he had entered the telephone number correctly originally 
then he should have been able to collect his money when he planned to without sleeping 
rough. He may have been able to contact the company he was going to work for or the 
British Embassy to see if they could offer assistance. If he had travel insurance then they 
may have been able to arrange something for him, or he may have been able to extract cash 
through another method such as a cash machine withdrawal if he had the funds to do so (as 
WorldRemit have researched the price of three star hotels in the city Mr R was staying in 
and they are £36-£40 a night), or ask for family and friends to transfer money to him if 
possible, or stay with anybody he may know there. I asked our investigator to reach out to 
Mr R to find out more information about how he tried to mitigate what he alleges happened 
to him. I also asked how these events affected him (over and above what hes already told 
us), and for any evidence he had of any financial losses he suffered. But Mr R did not 
respond to this request or ask for more time to respond before the deadline set. 
Im also mindful that none of the ways to mitigate what happened might have been available 
to Mr R. And this would be difficult to prove as part of this complaint. But ultimately, 
WorldRemits error did cause Mr R to be without funds that he attempted in good faith to 
transfer, for him to collect at their local partners branch, even if WorldRemit would not be 
responsible for their local partner branchs opening hours or that there was a public holiday 
at the time. Its feasible Mr R was relying on this money as the sole means of paying for his hotel and he may not have had another method of withdrawing cash. Mr R says he slept 
rough for two nights until he was able to collect the funds on 15 April 2022. So the error was 
rectified shortly after he made WorldRemit aware of this. And if he didnt make an error with 
the telephone number originally, then he would have been able to collect the money before 
the public holiday. 
Based on the circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that £100 compensation is 
proportionate for what happened. Sleeping rough in an overseas country would cause 
distress. And he was inconvenienced by having to contact WorldRemit again when they 
didnt get in touch with him about the technical issue  even though he wasnt affected by 
this issue. But Im unable to evidence any specific factors that warrant higher compensation 
than this. As Mr R himself has previously told our service that he can't provide us with any 
real medical proof that this incident has made his health any worse, and its not clear what 
steps if any he took to try and mitigate what happened, then £100 would be in line with our 
compensation guidelines when a business makes a larger single mistake, requiring a 
reasonable effort to sort out. So it follows that I intend to ask WorldRemit to put things right 
for Mr R.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. WorldRemit accepted the provisional decision. Mr R did not respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
WorldRemit Ltd to pay Mr R £100 for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a 
fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. WorldRemit Ltd should pay Mr R £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman