DRN-2427250
The complaint
Mr S complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for transactions 
which he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 4 March 2020, Barclays sent a text to Mr S saying it had found an issue with his debit 
card, and as a precaution it was sending him a new one. On 6 and 7 March, seven 
transactions were made, totalling £180.97.
On 20 March, Mr S contacted Barclays and said he hadnt received the new card. Barclays 
told him about the transactions, and Mr S said he hadnt authorised them. Barclays refunded 
Mr S.
On 21 March 2020, Barclays sent a new debit card to Mr S. It also sent a new PIN on 24 
March. On 26 and 27 March, four transactions were made, totalling £350.04.
Mr S rang Barclays on 28 March and said he hadnt received the new card. Barclays told him 
about the transactions, and Mr S said he hadnt authorised them.
Barclays didnt raise this as a fraud claim, and Mr S rang again on 18 May. This time 
Barclays sent the replacement card by courier to the address of a relative of Mr S, instead of 
to his registered home address. Barclays investigated, but this time it didnt refund Mr S for 
the disputed transactions.
Mr S complained. He didnt agree with Barclays decision to hold him liable for the £350.04 
transactions. And he said the courier had just left the envelope on his relatives doorstep, 
and he was unhappy at problems getting through to Barclays by phone.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said the card and PIN had been sent to Mr Ss 
registered address in plain envelopes, and on different dates. it was highly unlikely that a 
fraudster would be aware that a card and PIN were being sent out and exactly when theyd 
arrive, in order to intercept both. So Barclays said if Mr S hadnt received the cards and PIN, 
it could only conclude the items had been taken by someone he lived with, or who had 
access to his property. And it noted that Mr S hadnt reported the problem to the police. 
Barclays apologised for Mr Ss difficulties getting through by phone, but explained that the 
current pandemic meant this was beyond Barclays control. It also said this was why no 
delivery organisation was obtaining signatures. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He thought about what could have 
happened. Having asked Mr S about his circumstances, he thought it was unlikely that 
anyone else in Mr Ss household had intercepted and used the cards and PIN. Nor did he 
think it was likely that anyone outside could have accessed them. The investigator thought 
Barclays should have investigated the fraud claim after the 28 March call rather than waiting 
till Mr Ss 18 May call. But the investigator considered it most likely that Mr S had authorised 
the payments himself.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsman decision. He said:
- he didnt understand who had authorised the transactions;
- some of the disputed transactions had taken place in a different part of the city where 
he lived;
- hed heard there were lots of complaints about fraud in his area;
- he asked if his money would just go to waste if this service didnt uphold his 
complaint; and
- he was deeply disappointed, and asked what he could do next.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the rules say about disputed payments
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in March 2020 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Barclays) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Mr 
Ss genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed payments 
were technically authenticated.
The regulations also set out that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised 
the payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. So Ive considered whether Mr 
S authorised the payments himself. 
Could someone else have obtained the two new cards and PIN?
Mr S told us that he lives with an elderly relative, and no-one else. So I accept that its 
unlikely it was someone in Mr Ss household who took the card and PIN and then carried out 
the transactions without Mr Ss knowledge or consent.
The two cards and PIN were all sent by different delivery services and on three different 
dates. They were sent on 4 March, 21 March and 24 March. So for anyone outside the 
household to have intercepted these, theyd have had to have had access to Mr Ss 
incoming mail on three different occasions. And any such person wouldnt have known either 
that Barclays was going to send these three separate items, or which dates theyd be sent. 
So any such fraudster would have had to have constant access to Mr Ss incoming mail.
Mr S had lived at his address for some years, and he told us that his property has its own 
letterbox, not a shared one. 
So there is no clear way for any external fraudster to have obtained the two cards and PIN 
on all three occasions.
There ae other aspects of these transactions which dont stack up with an external fraudster. 
For example, a fraudster will normally take out the maximum in cash immediately, before the 
fraud can be discovered and the account blocked. This isnt what happened here. For 
example, one of the four disputed transactions on 27 March was for £9.05. This isnt a 
typical pattern for a third party fraudster. Taking all these aspects into account, I find that its more likely than not that Mr S carried out 
and authorised the transactions himself.
Mr Ss further points
Mr S pointed out that some of the disputed transactions had taken place in a different part of 
the city where he lived. But the distance isnt very great, so I dont consider this means it 
must have been someone else who authorised the transactions.
Mr S has also said that there were lots of complaints about fraud in his area. But I look at all 
complaints individually, on their merits.
Mr S has also asked what he could do next. Mr S can reject this decision and its open to 
him to pursue his complaint outside this service, for example by taking legal action. But we 
cant advise him about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I consider its more likely than not that Mr S authorised the disputed 
transactions himself, so I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman