DRN-1728176
The complaint
Miss F complains Nationwide Building Society delayed two faster payments she made from 
her current account.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss F says she used Nationwides online banking facility to make two 
payments  one payment was made for £2,000 and another payment was for £500. 
When the funds werent with the recipient within two hours, Miss F called Nationwide to find 
out what had happened. At this point, Miss F was told the payments had debited her account 
and to call Nationwide back in two hours time if there was still an issue. When Miss F called 
Nationwide back, she was told that the fraud team had put a block on the funds being 
released. Miss F says the funds were released at around 8pm on the same day but shes 
unhappy that Nationwide didnt contact her to let her know what was going on. Because they 
didnt do this, it caused her a lot of inconvenience especially as she says she was telling the 
recipient that the money had been sent to them.
Nationwide said when a payment alerts their fraud detection systems, it is immediately 
blocked and contact is made with the customer within two hours. They acknowledged they 
didnt adhere to this timeframe in Miss Fs case. So they apologised and arranged for £50 
compensation to be paid into Miss Fs account in February 2020.
Our investigator looked into Miss Fs concerns. In summary, she said that Nationwide had 
acknowledged making a mistake by not contacting Miss F within the two-hour timeframe. 
However, our investigator thought Nationwide had done enough to put things right by paying 
Miss F £50 compensation for their error.
Miss F disagreed. She said she had to call Nationwide a total of four times and that the 
payment wasnt released until later that evening which was later than what she was 
expecting. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Businesses like Nationwide have processes and procedures in place to try and identify 
transactions that arent genuine. Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Miss Fs account 
and I can see they say Nationwide can conduct additional security checks on money being 
paid into or taken out of the account. 
Its the nature of processes like these that genuine customers may be inconvenienced by, 
but thats not to say that Nationwide shouldnt have them in place or that they shouldnt have 
followed them as they did here. These processes are in place to protect both Nationwide and 
its customers. Nationwide have acknowledged that they shouldve got in touch with Miss F about this 
sooner. Instead, Miss F had to call and find out what was happening. I can understand Miss 
Fs frustration at having to call Nationwide several times and that it would be an 
inconvenience, particularly as Miss F was told in one of the calls the payments had debited 
her account successfully. Nationwide have already paid Miss F £50 for the inconvenience 
caused, which  having considered everything  I think is fair and reasonable.
Miss F says the delay in the payment being released led to her losing the goods she 
intended to buy as she says they were sold. 
Miss F has given me very little information about this. And she hasnt sent in any evidence to 
support what she says. But even if she did, Id still say that Nationwide acted fairly. While 
faster payments usually take up to two hours to be sent  this is subject to any fraud checks 
a bank may choose to carry out. While I appreciate Nationwide could have contacted Miss F 
sooner, I still think its likely the payment would have been delayed because of the additional 
checks Nationwide chose to carry out.  And Nationwide were within their rights to check that 
these transactions were genuine.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman