DRN-3333788
The complaint
Mrs R complains about AmTrust Europe Limiteds decision to refuse her cover under the 
Family Legal Guard section of her Home Insurance policy. 
AmTrust underwrites the Family Legal Guard cover but not the Home Insurance cover. And 
AmTrust uses an agent to handle and manage claims for legal expenses cover. For clarity Ill 
refer to AmTrust throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs R believes a family members Will is fraudulent and she wishes to contest its validity. 
She made a claim to AmTrust to have the legal fees in pursuing this action covered by her 
policy. Mrs R believes shes covered by part of the policy, which states shes insured to 
defend her legal rights in a dispute over something left to her in a will.
AmTrust refused to cover the dispute on the basis that there was no section in the policy 
Mrs Rs claim came under. And more specifically, the part Mrs R refers to is only to defend a 
claim made against her over something left to her in a Will. AmTrust said the policy doesnt 
cover Mrs R to pursue a claim and contest the validity of the Will.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think AmTrust had done anything 
wrong. She said, in her opinion, that Mrs Rs proposed claim was to initiate legal action and 
not one that constituted a legal defence. The investigator explained that if a third party was 
taking action against Mrs R disputing something left to her in a Will then the section would 
apply. But as that wasnt the case given Mrs R wanted to initiate action, her dispute wasnt 
covered, and it wasnt ambiguous.
Mrs R disagreed saying she was defending her right to have something from a fraudulent 
Will and the policy wording was misleading. And she was disappointed AmTrusts final 
answer didnt come before her policy renewal date and taking her annual premium. 
The investigator explained that AmTrust had consistently told Mrs R her claim wasnt 
covered, even after she challenged the decision in May (some four months before the policy 
renewal date). And in August AmTrust told Mrs R that a decision on her complaint would 
take longer than eight weeks but she could bring her complaint to us. The investigator didnt 
think AmTrust had treated her unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy wording is the starting point to establish whether Mrs Rs legal dispute is covered. 
The policy states that the Family Legal Guard covers Mrs R and her family to pursue or 
defend [her] legal rights in the event of a range of personal legal disputes. And the policy 
goes on to explain that the policy will provide legal expenses cover in the event of several 
matters, including:
- Legal defence including a motoring prosecution or inheritance dispute.
Like every other legal expenses policy Ive seen, Mrs Rs then goes on to explain terms of 
cover and conditions upon which a successful claim will be made. The policy clearly sets out 
the relevant sections of cover and under Legal Defence states what is insured as:
-Costs
-b) To defend your legal rights:
-ii) In a dispute over something left to you in a Will
Whats apparent from this is that the policy does not cover Mrs R for every inheritance type 
dispute. Rather it will bite where she is defending her legal right in a dispute over something 
left to her in a Will. The facts of the case from Mrs R are that she believes a person has 
fraudulently created a Will, which has the effect of her not getting what she feels she should 
even though shes a named beneficiary. But she tells us, her beneficial interest under the 
Will only materialises on the happening of a particular event, which didnt then happen. 
Forgery and fraud are grounds to contest a Will and if so proved then it invalidates the Will. 
As matters stand Mrs R has not demonstrated that shes in a dispute over something left to 
her in a Will. The dispute she wants to initiate is that the Will is a forgery or a fraud. So, the 
difficulty for Mrs R in terms of her claim for legal expenses cover is that the dispute doesnt 
centre on something that has been left to her. She wants to challenge the validity of the Will 
in its entirety. In such circumstances, and at its broadest and most generous reading of the 
policy term, Mrs R isnt covered for her legal expenses to challenge the validity of the Will.
AmTrust made it clear from early on in the claim that the policy didnt cover her and she was 
given sufficient notification, in my view, such that she could decide whether to let her policy 
renew or take her custom elsewhere. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman