DRN-3073547
The complaint
Mr B and Miss W have complained about their car insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) in 
respect of a claim they made when their car was damaged by another vehicle. They were 
unhappy with the settlement offered, what Esure had told them it would cost them to keep 
the car and that later, Esure had sold their car without permission.
What happened
Mr B and Miss Ws car was damaged on 5 October 2020. They wanted to repair the car, and 
told Esure so. But Esure felt it would be uneconomical to repair it. It said the most it would 
give them in settlement for the car was £1,750 less the £250 excess. And if they wanted to 
keep it, that would cost them a further £612. Mr B and Miss W told Esure they were 
challenging its values and Esure agreed not to sell the car whilst the dispute was ongoing. 
However, following a call Mr B and Miss W had with Esures engineer, Esure thought Mr B 
and Miss W had decided they didnt want to keep the car. So it sold it. 
Mr B and Miss W complained about the car being declared a total loss, including the 
valuation Esure had placed on it, that the price theyd been told to pay to keep the car was 
too much and that Esure had sold the car contrary to their agreement. They said the whole 
situation had caused them a lot of upset. Esure said the values were fair and it had sold the 
car as it was entitled to do.
Our investigator felt that Esures total loss valuation for the car had been too low. She felt it 
should have offered £2,035 before deducting the excess. Esure agreed to pay the increased 
sum and sent Mr B and Miss W a cheque for £250. Our investigator also initially thought 
Esure should pay £500 compensation for upset caused to Mr B and Miss W. But on review 
decreased that to £250. 
Mr B and Miss W were unhappy. They said this had all been massively inconvenient for 
them and because their car had been sold theyd incurred costs for getting another car in 
order to have a vehicle to use. They also provided details of over 20 searches theyd done 
on advertised cars to show that they couldnt get a similar car, particularly looking at 
mileage, for anything close to even the revised settlement offer. The complaint was passed 
to me for consideration and I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were:
total loss and valuation
I know Mr B and Miss W think Esure failed them for not giving them an option, at the outset, 
to have their car repaired. But the policy does allow Esure to decide how to settle claims. 
And I see that whilst it felt £1,750 fairly represented the cars market value, Miss Ws 
submitted cost of repairs was £1,800. It isnt unusual for an insurer to declare a car a total 
loss when repair costs equal a good proportion of the market value. And as they exceeded 
that here, I dont think Esures decision was unfair. 
Since then Esure has increased its settlement offer  agreeing to pay the top price of the 
three guides  £2,035. But even looking at that value, I think settling on the basis of the car 
being a total loss was a fair and reasonable decision for Esure to have made. I say that 
because the likely cost of repairs was still very close to the revised market value for the car.
 
The revised settlement was based on evidence that Mr B and Miss Ws car had been made 
to a particular specification. I see that Mr B and Miss W gave Esure this evidence whilst it 
was considering the value of their car. It seems this was overlooked and not taken into 
account when the market value was assessed initially. I think Esure failed Mr B and Miss W 
in this respect. If it had handled this aspect fairly and reasonably then its original settlement 
offer would have been for £2,035 less the policy excess, instead of £1,750 less the policy 
excess. I note it has sent them an extra £250 settlement, although that leaves £35.00 
outstanding. In my view it should pay them the remaining sum and compensation too.
I know Mr B and Miss W have put together some detail from internet searches theyve done 
showing adverts for similar cars to their own. But the advertised price for cars isnt usually 
used to determine what the fair market value is because advertised prices are often inflated 
to allow for negotiation and don't reflect the actual sale price. Rather this service considers 
that the most reliable method for valuing a car is to consider trade guides used for valuing 
second hand cars. In this case the guide prices were considered and, rather than agreeing 
on an average of the three valuations the guides provided, which is the usual method we 
recommend for insurers to value cars, Esure accepted that the top price of the three was a 
fair and reasonable representation of the value of Mr B and Miss Ws car. Given the cars 
very low mileage and its colour, I think it was fair to rely on the top price, rather than using an 
average. I know the prices set by the guides take into account the low mileage, but I think 
that a car of this age with this low mileage (half that of the average expected for a car of this 
age) will be difficult to find and will be desirable  meaning its likely to sell at the top end of 
any sale or guide price. So I think Esures agreement to settle on this revised value was fair. 
salvage/buy back
Esure knew Mr B and Miss W wanted to repair their car. Not only did they know it would be 
difficult to replace the car for one with similar mileage, they explained that this car had quite 
a lot of sentimental value for them. Esure told them it would cost them £612 if they wanted to 
keep their car  meaning their settlement would be £1,750 less the excess and less the 
£612. Mr B and Miss W asked Esure to explain how it came to a value of £612  they 
couldnt find a scrap dealer that would pay even £200 for the car. 
Esure never answered Mr B and Miss W. But when we asked it what its arrangements were 
with agents for salvage, it told us it has a standard arrangement for 20% of the cars value. In 
this case that would have been £350. But it also told us that when it sold the car it only 
received £131.25 from its agent (7% of the £1,750 market value price). 
I think Esure failed Mr B and Miss W in this respect. Ive seen nothing to make me think the 
original price Mr B and Miss W were given for buying their car back from Esure was correct. 
I know, and Esure knew, that they were really concerned about the high price they were 
being charged, or would be charged if they took that option. And I think if theyd received a 
more favourable offer from Esure they would have been likely to decide for definite that they 
would keep the car. I say that bearing in mind they knew it was going to be difficult to replace 
the car, they had a sentimental attachment to it and it was still driveable. That would mean 
they could have done repairs in stages and/or taken time to shop around for the best repair 
price. I think it would have been easier to find a few hundred pounds of savings in this 
respect, than over £600.sale of car
Esure doesnt deny that it had agreed to hold off the sale of the car because Mr B and 
Miss W wanted to buy it back but were concerned about the settlement on offer. But said it 
sold the car because its engineer noted they were not looking to retain car now. I dont 
doubt Esures engineer recorded this  but I dont think that one comment alone is truly 
reflective of Mr B and Miss Ws position at that time. From the correspondence Ive seen and 
the calls I know were made, I think Mr B and Miss W were clear with Esure that they did 
want the car back but didnt feel its settlement would allow them enough funds to repair it. 
I also note that Esure knew and agreed to Mr B and Miss W keeping the paperwork for the 
car on the basis they wanted it back. 
Mr B and Miss Ws policy says that if Esure settled a claim for the total loss of their car then 
the car became Esures property. So, strictly speaking, because Esure had settled Mr B and 
Miss Ws claim, and even though they hadnt agreed to that, the car was Esures to sell. But 
given the agreement Im satisfied it had with Mr B and Miss W to not sell the car, I think 
Esure failed them by releasing it for sale. I accept that when Mr B and Miss W found out 
about this it was very upsetting for them. It also meant that Esure had forced them into a 
position of not being able to get their car back to repair it. I think Esure should compensate 
them for this. 
extra costs
I note that Mr B and Miss W have told us that whilst Esure had paid the settlement to them, 
and because they were ultimately hoping to get their car back, they didnt spend these funds. 
Essentially they didnt want to replace their car and they didnt want to use any of the money 
paid in case they needed to pay any of it back. So theyve said they made alternate 
arrangements to use a family members car. They said that to get insurance and pay road 
tax etc, they spent about £250. Mr B and Miss W have said that they wouldnt have had this 
cost if theyd been able to keep their car and repair it. I think theyre right and that they only 
ended up in this position because Esure failed to get the valuation and buy back fee right 
whilst also releasing their car for sale when it had agreed to keep it on hold. Im prepared to 
say Esure should compensate them for their extra costs by paying them £250.
Mr B and Miss W said they were pleased with my findings. Esure didnt object to them but it 
asked if I would share with it any evidence Id relied on in respect of the extra costs Mr B and 
Miss W had highlighted and Id provisionally awarded £250 compensation for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B and Miss W are pleased with my findings and Esure hasnt raised any objections for 
me to consider, I see no reason to change what I said provisionally. In respect of the 
compensation, I have nothing to share with Esure. In short my view was, and is, that, based 
on what Mr B and Miss W told me, I was/am satisfied theyd likely incurred a small cost due 
to Esures failings, which I felt it would be reasonable to make it compensate them for. 
My view on this complaint, as provisionally stated, hasnt changed. My provisional findings 
now form part of the findings of this my final decision.Putting things right
I require Esure to pay Mr B and Miss W:
£35.00 as the final amount in settlement of their claim for their car.
£600 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
£250 as compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman